
=== Adult

The various quotations from Swedenborg in connection with the text of the chapter give discussion material. Verses 18 and 25 should be taken up, as they are often questioned.

The incidents recorded in our chapter for today happened as the Lord was on His way to Jerusalem for the last time. He had come down from Galilee this time not through Samaria but on the other side of the Jordan through Perea and crossed into Judea near Jericho. As usual the series of events in the chapter presents an interesting sequence. Judea, we know, of the three divisions of the land in the Lord's time, represents the will. It is in the will that our worship centers. It is there that the Lord is born in us as a simple desire to "be good." But it is also there that the most bitter and persistent opposition to the Lord centers, in our natural selfishness and worldliness. And it is there that men reject and crucify the Lord as a result of that selfishness. As we should expect, the whole teaching of the chapter centers in the nature of a good will. The Pharisees, the rich young man, and the apostles were all proud of their externally correct lives, but in the Pharisees and the rich young man knowledge of the truth was not united with love of being led by the Lord. Marriage pictures the union of goodness and truth. Spiritually the Pharisees had divorced the true "wife" - love of the truth for the sake of life — excusing themselves in the literal story on the ground of a law of Moses (Deuteronomy 24:1) which they misinterpreted to suit their purpose. This misinterpretation is an accurate picture of what exponents of "faith alone" have always done, defining the word faith to suit their desire to be saved without getting rid of their evils.

Marriage, as our traditional New Church marriage service states, "has its origin in the union of the Divine love and wisdom in the Lord." The verses which the Lord quotes suggest to us the need of putting aside our natural inherited selfishness in order to come into a true spiritual union. The breaking of a marriage is almost always due to selfishness in one or both parties to the marriage. And the only way of overcoming selfishness is through looking to the Lord for guidance and strength. Swedenborg says (@AC 162):

"It is the celestial (or heavenly) marriage from and according to which all marriages on earth must be derived; and this marriage is such that there is one Lord and one heaven, or one church whose head is the Lord. The law of marriages thence derived is that there shall be one husband and one wife, and when this is the case they represent the celestial marriage, and are an exemplar of the celestial man." If the husband and wife both recognize the Lord as the only source of love and wisdom and are really trying to serve Him together, they will inevitably attain increasing union and increasing happiness. This is an ideal of marriage which we should not only hold in our own minds but which we should hold before our children by both our teaching and our example. If children grow up with this ideal, they have a powerful protection against the temptations presented by the low standards of marriage in the world around them.

It is not by accident that the Lord's discussion of marriage with the Pharisees is immediately followed by His blessing little children. Not only is it natural to think of children when we think of marriage, but the quality of innocence which they represent is exactly the quality which was lacking in the Pharisees. The Latin root of the word innocence literally means "harmlessness." The desire to hurt others is the end result of self-love. It was evident in the Pharisees and it is also one of the most noticeable attitudes in the partners in a marriage on the way to being broken.

But innocence has a deeper significance also. Swedenborg discusses it at some length in @HH 276-283. Here he shows that innocence is basically "a willingness to be led by the Lord" and that, while little children exhibit innocence in its external form and so correspond to innocence, their innocence — being from ignorance — is not genuine. Genuine innocence is that humility into which the regenerating person grows gradually as he overcomes self-love and pride in self-intelligence and learns to trust wholly in the wisdom and love of the Lord. (See the quotation from @HH 278 below.)

The story of the rich young man teaches the same lesson in a different way. He wanted to lead a good life and to get to heaven, but his ideas of both were wholly external, and he had no thought of his need of or dependence on God. That was why the Lord said to him, "Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God." The Lord was not disclaiming divinity, for He proceeded to answer the young man's questions with authority. He was pointing out to us as well as to the young man that unless we receive His words as proceeding from God, they will not be effective in our lives. That the young man did not so receive them is evident from the fact that he turned away when the Lord told him to give up his own possessions and follow Him. Verse 25 has troubled many, but the Lord's own significant change from "have riches" to "trust in riches"* should show us what He means. Throughout the Scriptures the rich in a bad sense are those who are rich in their own estimation, as opposed to the "poor in spirit" of whom it is said that "theirs is the kingdom of heaven." In @HH 365 we read: "By the rich man of whom the Lord says: 'It is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God' (Matthew 19:24), the rich in both the natural sense and the spiritual sense are meant. In the natural sense the rich are those that have an abundance of riches and set their heart upon them; but in the spiritual sense they are those that have an abundance of knowledges and learning, which are spiritual riches, and who desire by means of these to introduce themselves into the things of heaven and the church from their own intelligence." The apostles themselves needed the same lesson. They truly desired to follow the Lord, but their minds were clouded with worldly concepts. In @AC 29 Swedenborg says: "The man who is being regenerated is at first of such a quality that he supposes the good which he does, and the truth which he speaks, to be from himself, when in reality all good and all truth are from the Lord."

[*Most versions after KJV omit the phrase "for those who trust in riches" on the presumption that it is a later gloss. Swedenborg nowhere quotes the verse in question. -Editor]

The healing of blind Bartimaeus forms a fitting close for the chapter. In contrast to the others with whom the Lord has been dealing this man is poor and insignificant. But he has perfect faith and looks only to the Lord's mercy for the restoration of his sight. In a number of other cases of blindness the Lord employed means for restoring sight and the miracle was gradual. But it is said that Bartimaeus, when the Lord summoned him, "casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus." That is, he immediately put off all thoughts of his own and lifted his mind toward the Lord, and he asked only that he receive sight. "And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight." And the way he chose to go was to follow Jesus. He received the kingdom of God as a little child.

