
=== Junior

It is well to put into the minds of children even as young as these the thought of what marriage ought to be and of what can spoil it, for the younger a child grasps the ideal, the less likely he is to absorb the wrong ideas of marriage which are so prevalent in the world. All through the chapter there are practical lessons for the Juniors and they can also understand the correspondence of rich and poor, and of blindness.

We are giving our lesson for today the title "Little Children" because verses 14 and 15 are really the key to the meaning of the whole chapter. If you read the chapter carefully, you find that in every incident through verse 45 the Lord is teaching us that we should not be always thinking about what we own and what we want, but should try first of all to do right and trust in Him to give us all the things we really need.

Little children in our lesson mean children so young that they have not yet begun to disobey and to try to get their own way. That means that they have two virtues which are the most important of all: innocence and trust. The things that turn us away from the Lord and heaven, as we all know, are selfishness and disobedience. They cause all the trouble in the world. To "receive the kingdom of God as a little child" is to believe in the Lord and obey and trust Him instead of thinking ourselves the most important thing in the world and imagining we do not need to learn from the Lord.

Let us see how this is illustrated in our chapter. It begins with the teaching about marriage. You know that even today in Christian families many marriages are broken up and the husband and wife are divorced. This is almost always the result of selfishness, of the fact that each partner in the marriage wants to have things his or her own way. True love is always unselfish, and if the husband and wife do as the Lord wants them to do, each will be thinking of the other's happiness instead of his or her own, and they will love each other more all the time as the years go on.

Then think of the story of the rich young man.

What did he ask of the Lord?

What did the Lord first tell him to do?

The young man had kept the commandments and we read that the Lord loved him for this. But the Lord saw that there was something else wrong with him, and it was a very important thing. He was proud of himself for doing right and trusted in himself and his riches and not in the Lord. He had the obedience but not the humility of a little child.

What did the Lord tell him to do?

Some people have thought that this verse means that everyone should give away whatever he happens to possess and try to be poor. Some religious people believe this and make a virtue of not owning property as individuals, considering themselves better than ordinary people for this reason. But if you read verses 23 and 24 [KJV] carefully, you will see that the Lord is not condemning the possession of wealth, but trust in wealth, that is, thinking that it is more important to be rich than to be good. [Cf. 1 Timothy 6:17-19.] In this world people are often judged by what they have instead of by what they are, but in the eternal life in the other world what we are is all that counts. The rich young man went away grieved because, although he lived an orderly life and wanted to get to heaven, he really cared more for his money than for goodness.

Following this we see how little the disciples understood the Lord's meaning.

What did James and John want?

What did the Lord tell them?

What does He say is the way to true greatness?

What does He say was His purpose in coming into the world?

Following the Lord means following His example. He told the young man to "take up the cross." Because of this command, which the Lord gives several times in the Word, and because the Lord died on a cross, people have come to think that taking up the cross means suffering. But verses 44 and 45 show us what it really means: it means trying always to think of what we can do to help other people instead of putting our own desires first. This does not mean doing some big thing for somebody once in a while, but doing the little things every day that make life easier and happier for our parents, our brothers and sisters, our teachers, and our friends. Sometimes people think it is fun to make trouble. We all probably have this temptation when we are children, and some people never overcome and outgrow it. These are the people who cause unhappiness and suffering, and some of them become those we call criminals. We should recognize this love of making trouble as the opposite of innocence, for innocence means "not harming" and not wanting to harm anyone. If we have this temptation even in a small way, fighting against it is the "cross" we must take up in order to be true followers of the Lord. Gentleness, kindness, and helpfulness are the qualities the Lord showed in His life and loves to find in us.

The miracle which the Lord performed immediately afterward (verses 46-52) has something to do with our lesson, too.

What did He do for Bartimaeus?

See if you can think of another kind of sight we have besides the sight of our physical eyes. It is the kind we mean when we say, "Oh, I see." We mean that our minds see the truth of something which we have not understood before. The Lord can give us this kind of sight, too, if we look to Him for it and believe in Him. Perhaps you were blind to the meaning of this chapter in the Bible before you began to study your lesson and now the Lord has made you see. If so, read carefully the last verse of the chapter. The Lord told Bartimaeus to go his way, but when he received his sight, the way he chose was to follow the Lord.

