
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
It will be best to begin this time with the reading of the lesson, and then discuss it with a view to impressing on the children the meaning of love to the Lord and to the neighbor, and the necessity of overcoming some of the little faults which they have which make their parents and others unhappy. The tendencies to selfishness and feelings of superiority are sometimes becoming strong at this age, and the children should be shown clearly what they lead to.

---
What is our lesson for today about?

The Lord loves everyone, but everyone is not willing to receive His help.

He loves little children because they are innocent and trustful.

Innocent means not wanting to hurt anyone.

Little children do not depend on themselves.

We should all trust the Lord just as little children trust their parents.

You see, the Lord loves little children. You know that your father and mother love you. They take care of you, give you a home to live in, provide food for you to eat and clothes for you to wear. But behind your parents is the Lord, who gives us the world to live in, with trees and stones to make our houses, and the seeds and the animals from which our food and clothing come. So we should all love the Lord and thank Him, just as we love and thank our fathers and mothers.

Our parents have another duty toward us. They teach us what is right and wrong, and do all they can to see that we grow up to be good men and women. And we know that we ought to listen to our parents and obey them. But where do our parents get their knowledge of what is right and wrong? They get it from the Lord in the Word.

When the Lord was in the world, He spoke His teaching to all who would listen.

What did the rich young man ask the Lord?

What did the Lord tell him was the first thing necessary?

When the young man said he had kept the commandments, what more did the Lord ask?

Why did the young man turn away from the Lord?

What did the Lord tell the disciples?

The Lord did not say that people ought never to be rich, but that they should not trust in riches.

Whether we are rich or poor, we can obey the Lord and trust in Him.

If we trust in the Lord and obey Him, the Lord will make us happy whatever our outward circumstances may be.

The Lord gives us many wonderful things and wants us to enjoy them, but He knows that we cannot really enjoy them unless we share them with other people and use them to give happiness to others rather than just for ourselves. We should love and help other people just as the Lord always loves and helps us. Following the Lord means following His example. We are all the Lord's children if we love and obey Him.

