
=== Senior

Every step in the chapter is important for the Seniors, especially the teaching concerning marriage and the story of what innocence really means and why it is essential. It will be a long time before this age group attain the innocence of wisdom, but if they see it clearly as a goal, it will help to check self-satisfaction and self-will.

---
In our chapter for today the Lord says, "Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein." How do little children receive things? They receive them with perfect confidence and trust, sensing that they could not get them for themselves but only from a wiser and greater person who loves them and takes care of them. They look to their parents for support and guidance in everything. This is the quality called innocence which Swedenborg tells us is the very sphere of heaven. No man or woman is in heaven who trusts in his own goodness or wisdom.

This is a sobering thought, because we realize that we all naturally want to be praised and rewarded for the good things we do and are prone to think at any given time that we know more than anyone else. We are all naturally not innocent. The innocence which we see in little children is not really their own because it comes from ignorance and we know that they soon "outgrow" it. But those innocent states from our infancy are stored up in us by the Lord as the "remains" of which Swedenborg often speaks, and they form the basis for all our later spiritual development. And the whole object of our life in this world is to grow into innocence again — into the state of perfect humility and trust in the Lord which is called "the innocence of wisdom. "

This is the basic thought of our whole chapter. The Lord came down into Judea, which is the division of the Holy Land that represents the heart or will. He was tempted by the Pharisees with the question on marriage and divorce and showed them that the Law really teaches that a marriage should not be broken at all. Throughout the Word, marriage is a picture of the union of love and wisdom, of desire and understanding, of love and truth. Neither is sufficient without the other. In a marriage the husband and wife need each other and together can serve the Lord as neither could possibly serve Him alone. Marriage should be entered into "for love," but true love is always unselfish and must always come from the Lord. If the husband and wife look to the Lord for guidance and love each other unselfishly, they will grow more and more one as the years go by. The thing which separates husband and wife is almost always selfishness, the desire of one or the other or both to have his or her own way and to rule, the unwillingness at heart to be led and governed by the Lord.

This same thought is presented in another way in the story of the rich young man. In the beginning of the interview the Lord called his attention to the fact that "there is none good but one, that is, God." The Lord in this statement is not disclaiming that He is God but is trying to make the young man see that only from God can true knowledge of the right way be obtained. The young man had taken the first necessary steps toward attaining eternal life by obeying the commandments. But he was proud of his attainments and of the position he held in the world. He did not have the necessary humility in his heart. He was not ready to give up the treasures of earth for the treasures of heaven. So he went away grieved.

If we read carefully verses 23 and 24 [KJV], we see that the Lord does not condemn riches, but trust in riches. And we should understand that the riches meant are not merely money but possessions of goodness or knowledge which we believe to be our own. The rich man or the learned man who recognizes that his riches or learning really belong to the Lord and are to be used in the Lord's service enters heaven as easily as the poor or unlearned man. The rich man who cannot enter heaven is the one who is the opposite of the "poor in spirit" in the first of the Blessings, of whom it is said, "theirs is the kingdom of heaven."

The next part of the chapter shows that even the apostles, in spite of all the Lord's personal instruction, still thought in terms of personal merit and the rewards it might bring them. They were thinking and talking of these things at the very time when the Lord was trying to prepare them for His coming death and resurrection, for they were on their way to Jerusalem for the last events of His life on earth. We can see that this absent—mindedness was probably the very reason why, at the time of the crucifixion, they did not remember that He had said He would rise again. When our minds are full of ourselves, we do not hear the Lord.

Contrasted with the state of the Pharisees, the rich young man, and even the apostles, who all had every opportunity to know the truth, is the state of the blind Bartimaeus, who "sat by the highway side begging" and cried to the Lord for mercy. We know that blindness pictures ignorance of the truth. All Bartimaeus asked was to receive his sight. He had perfect faith in the Lord's power and because of this faith the Lord was able immediately to restore his sight. And it is said that as soon as he could see, he "followed Jesus in the way." He was both poor and blind, but he had the innocence of a little child, the willingness to be led by the Lord.

