
=== Notes for Parents

The book of Daniel is perhaps the best known of all the books of the Prophets. This is because it contains several striking stories which can be told to little children. One of these is the subject of our lesson today.

Because of the presence of the temple in Jerusalem and because some of the kings there were faithful to the Lord, the kingdom of Judah was able to stand longer than the kingdom of Israel. But in spite of their good kings and in spite of the warnings of the great prophets Isaiah and Jeremiah, the people persisted in worshiping idols, and finally Judah was conquered by Babylon. If we persist in thinking that the good things of the world and the learning and theories of men are more important than finding out and doing what the Lord tells us is right, the time comes when selfishness takes complete possession of our hearts.

Daniel and the three young men of our story today were among a small group of youths of royal blood, specially chosen for their mental ability, who were taken away before the destruction of Jerusalem to be educated in Babylon in the king's court, and they were well treated. These four remained faithful to the worship and practices in which they had been brought up at home, and so the Lord was with them and protected and prospered them. He gave Daniel the power of prophecy and the ability to interpret dreams so that Daniel, like Joseph long before, rose to be one of the chief rulers of the land; and at his suggestion his three friends were also put in charge of provinces.

In the divided kingdom, Israel pictures our mind and Judah our heart. Israel fell first because it was started in idolatry. When once we begin to listen to worldly reasoning — as Psalm 1 points out — we get further and further from an understanding of the truth. Our hearts may still cherish good intentions, but without the truth to guide and protect us, selfishness eventually prevails. This selfishness, especially the love of having our own way, is Babylon; and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, stands for the ruling principle of the selfish heart, the principle of self-praise and belief in our own wisdom.

Nebuchadnezzar set up a great golden image, and ordered everyone in the land to worship it on pain of being cast into a burning fiery furnace. In our story the fiery furnace into which Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were cast for refusing to worship the image pictures the temptations to which we are subjected when we are steadfast in looking to the Lord for guidance instead of doing as "everybody else" does. But we need not be afraid of these temptations, for the Lord is present with us. In His life on earth He met and overcame every temptation which can possibly come to any of us; and if we are faithful, He will always give us strength to overcome, just as He brought Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego unharmed through the fire.

