
=== Adult

In regard to the individual experience, note that our chapter covers all three stages of the man who regenerates: his preparation for regeneration, his state during the process of regeneration, and his regenerate state. The difference between perception and conscience, the origin of representative worship, and the difference between the doctrine of "original sin" and Swedenborg's teaching concerning hereditary evil are all good topics for discussion.

We have seen that the people of the Most Ancient Church were "celestial" in character: that is, this man "was so constituted that the will and the understanding with him formed one mind, or that with him love was implanted in his will part, and thus at the same time faith, which filled the other or intellectual part of his mind" (@AC 927). He had open communication with the heavens and lived, so long as he was content to be led by the Lord alone, in a beautiful, childlike state of innocence and trust — the Garden of Eden. His first downward step was taken when he began to be dissatisfied with this state and to desire to be independent. Because the Lord had foreseen this desire and immediately provided for him a good way to satisfy it (the story of the creation of Eve), man was still for a time maintained in the Garden of Eden state. Gradually, however, his self-hood asserted itself more and more, his senses and their pleasures (the serpent) misled him, and he turned from the Lord, lost his innocence, and was driven out of the Garden. The final state of the people of that church is described in Genesis 6:1-7. @AC 927 continues as follows: "Their posterity inherited the condition that the will and the understanding made a one; and therefore when the love of self and the consequent insane cupidities began to take possession of their will part (where previously there had been love to the Lord and charity toward the neighbor), not only did their will part or will become utterly perverted, but so also together with it did their intellectual part or understanding, and this was still more the case when the last posterity immersed their falsities in their cupidities, and so became 'Nephilim,' for thereby they became of such a nature that they could not be restored, because both parts of the mind (that is, the whole mind) had been ruined." The giants mentioned in Genesis 6:4 were men who had acquired tremendous importance in their own eyes; but this also in time affected their physical structure. The Nephilim, Anakim, etc., were some of these giants who survived the general destruction of the Most Ancient Church; individual giants were Goliath of Gath and Og, king of Bashan. The giants were not finally exterminated until David's time. Swedenborg tells us that the insane evils of those people were so great that the hells of the Most Ancient Church have been closed by the Lord so that spirits from those hells cannot influence others.

Near the end of that church, however, there were still some who desired to serve the Lord, and in these the Lord wrought an actual constitutional change so that they might be regenerated and built into a new church. @AC 597 states:

"By 'Noah' is signified a new or second church dispensation, which is to be called the Ancient Church, for the sake of distinction between the Most Ancient Church which was before the flood, and that which was after the flood. The state of the Most Ancient Church was such that they had from the Lord a perception of good and the derivative truth. The state of the Ancient Church, or 'Noah,' became such that they had a conscience of good and truth. Such as is the difference between having perception and having conscience, such was the difference of state of the Most Ancient and the Ancient Churches. Perception is not conscience: the celestial have perception; the spiritual have conscience. The Most Ancient Church was celestial, the Ancient was spiritual."

We are also told that the people of the Most Ancient Church, because they were in communication with the heavens, had internal rather than external respiration, and that when the communication ceased, many of them actually died of a kind of suffocation, so that the flood is a realistic picture of their end. But in the good remnant — and in the others who survived - the Lord set up external respiration. Internal respiration, for short periods, is not unknown even today. It is practiced by some of the Indian Yogis, and has the effect of making them practically unconscious of their material surroundings. Swedenborg also had this experience.

The most important change made in man at this time was the separation of the will and the understanding, so that man could see the truth of thoughts which were contrary to his desires. Men ever since have been of this nature. We know this from the fact that we ourselves often wish very much to do things which our minds tell us are not right, and that we are capable of making decisions contrary to our desires. This new character set up in the good remnant is pictured by the ark, the separation being indicated by its "rooms." There was much falsity in the minds of these people and much selfishness in their hearts: the ark was pitched "within and without with pitch"; and all the animals and birds both clean and unclean were within it. But it had a window toward heaven, and because it was built according to the commandment of the Lord, and because the Lord "shut him in," it could ride out the flood. We know in our own experience that there have been times when we were sorely tempted to yield to worldly and sensual desires and have been kept safe only by our knowledge of the right way and a dogged determination to stick to it. The Lord's providence shuts us in, also. Noah, tossed about in the ark throughout the flood, pictures this period in our experience.

But the time comes, if we remain shut up in the ark, when the rain ceases and the flood begins to abate. We realize that our temptation is losing strength and we begin to reach out tentatively for a new and freer way of life which shall yet be good and righteous. This is the particular time described in our chapter for today. There are in our minds both false and true thoughts — the raven and the dove — with which we explore our condition. Rest and peace in the new way do not come immediately, but presently the dove brings back tokens of promise. The olive leaf represents "the truth of charity." Finally the flood is over and we can open the door and go out freely to build up a new life. This whole process is a common Christian experience, the duration of the flood representing the period of temptation which must follow the decision to lead a new life, if we are to lead that life with assurance and strength.

In @AC 920 Swedenborg describes the origin of representative worship, pointing out that in the Most Ancient Church worship was internal, as it is in heaven, but that men saw in the things of the outward world representatives of internal things. As the internal perception was gradually lost, the knowledge of the representatives was more cherished, and this knowledge was handed down to the posterity of that church and became the basis of the representative worship of the Ancient Church. The altar which Noah is said to have built after he came forth from the ark is the first altar mentioned in the Word. The altar is the representative of worship of the Lord and the offerings made upon it picture the desire that our affections and thoughts shall be such as to serve Him. This recognition that the Lord is the Source of all goodness and truth is essential to anyone's salvation.

The New Church does not hold the doctrine of "original sin" in the sense in which this is accepted in many churches, but neither does it teach that we are "born good" and acquire all our evils through our environment. Our natural inheritance is selfish, and this selfishness remains with us to eternity. Regeneration does not destroy it (cf. @AC 868). But if we look to the Lord, obey Him, and become regenerate men and women, the Lord holds our natural self in subjection and permits us to enjoy the peace and happiness which are the result of unselfish love — the Lord's love acting in and through us. The Lord's promise in the last verse of our chapter describes the order of this change called regeneration, which under the Divine Providence is and always will be possible for anyone who seeks it.

