
=== Intermediate

This group should have a running account of the spiritual meaning of the story of the fall and of Noah and the flood, particularly as it relates to the change from celestial to spiritual in the race and applies to our present nature and possibilities. They should know clearly what are meant by the Most Ancient and Ancient Churches and what the distinction is between "celestial" and "spiritual." Stress the nature of temptation and the way in which we should meet it.

The decision of the people of the Most Ancient Church to try to think from themselves was, as we have seen, a step — the first step — away from the celestial state, which is the highest and happiest state men can enjoy. So it was the beginning of a long downward trend. In the Bible story the next step was the temptation by the serpent, and this was followed by the expulsion from the garden and the killing of Abel by his brother Cain. The meaning of these stories is dealt with elsewhere, and may be guessed from what is said in Genesis 6:5-8. When we use our independence in the wrong way, forgetting what the Lord has told us is right and trying to please ourselves instead of Him, our natural desires lead us further and further on the path to spiritual destruction.

The celestial church was a church in which people were governed by their hearts, and when their hearts became evil, the Lord could no longer reach them because their thoughts were wholly controlled by their desires. If you stop to think, you can see that we are not just like that now. We may want very much to do some selfish thing and yet our minds can see that it is wrong, and through our minds the Lord can lead us to refuse to do it. We have, through education in the knowledge of what is right, something called our conscience. That is, we are really governed through our minds and not through our hearts. This is a spiritual instead of a celestial state. If we try to build our conscience on the Lord's teachings and choose to obey them, the Lord can form in us gradually an unselfish instead of a selfish will. This is called regeneration or rebirth. For we are all - ever since the first people turned from the Lord — born selfish, and we must be made over by the Lord if we are to become good and happy people. This is not something that can happen all at once. It is a lifelong work. But you can see from your own experience how it is done. Remember some naughty thing you used to do when you were a little child: First your parents told you it was wrong and you learned to stop doing it when they said "no" so that you would not be punished, although perhaps you still did it when no one was looking; then you began to be ashamed of it and tried to stop for your own sake; gradually you stopped altogether, and in time found that you no longer had any desire to do it; and finally it seemed so unpleasant to you that you wondered how you could ever have wanted to do it. You had, in regard to that particular thing, a new will which was the very opposite of your first desire. The Lord gives us the new will, but we have to prepare the way by resisting the temptation to do wrong and persevering until we have formed a new good habit in place of the old bad one.

What the Lord had to do in order to save the few good people at the end of the Most Ancient Church — the few represented by Noah — was to separate their minds from their wills so that they could see what was right even when they did not want to do it. The story of the flood is, like the story of the Garden of Eden, a symbol story. The flood was not a flood of water, but a flood of falsity developing in the minds of the people as their wills became more and more evil, until they could no longer receive the inflowing life from the Lord and destroyed each other and themselves. Only a few survived the change. The good who were saved are described in the story of Noah, and the evil who managed to go on living were the giants who appear for a short while in the historical part of the Bible: the Anakim (Numbers 13:22), etc. Two who are familiar to us all are Goliath of Gath (1 Samuel 17:4) and Og, king of Bashan (Numbers 21:33).

In the story, Noah and his family were saved by building an ark which would serve as a boat, according to the Lord's directions, and staying shut up in it until the waters of the flood subsided. This is a picture of living within the limits set by the Lord's commandments until the temptation to disobey has passed. The part of the story we read in chapter 8 tells of the gradual subsiding of the temptation and the way in which we begin to live a new life. First Noah opens the window in the top of the ark. This is a picture of opening our minds to instruction from the Lord. Then he sends out two birds — a raven and a dove — to see if the waters have dried up. You remember that birds picture our thoughts which fly around in our minds. Some are good and some are bad. The raven pictures our false thoughts. Our first idea of the new life is, perhaps, that it will be more profitable for us. The raven flew about and accomplished nothing. But the dove — the thought that we ought to be grateful to the Lord and look to Him for guidance - did eventually bring back the news that the new life could be good and happy. Technically the olive corresponds to "the good of charity" (the love of serving the Lord), and the olive leaf to "the truth of charity" (the knowledge of how to serve Him).

When Noah finally went out of the ark, the first thing he did was to build an altar and make sacrifices to the Lord; and this was the first worship of the Ancient Church. How did Noah know about building altars and making sacrifices? Swedenborg tells us that the people of the Most Ancient Church knew "from perception" the correspondence of everything in the natural world to the things of spiritual life, and that this knowledge was handed down by tradition to the Ancient Church. The people of the Ancient Church — with whom, as we have said, the things of the intellect came first — cultivated this knowledge of correspondence and loved it more than anything else they learned, forming their way of life and their worship according to correspondences. It was in the time of the Ancient Church that the Ancient Word was written, from which the first seven chapters of Genesis were copied by Moses.

The last verses of our chapter, in which the Lord promises that man shall never again be destroyed by his evils and falsities, tell us that the Lord has now provided in man a permanent structure (the separation of the will and the understanding) through which it would always be possible for Him to reach those who were willing to be saved. We shall find that each church raised up on earth had its decline, but that before its end the Lord began to prepare the way for a new church among those not wholly perverted. This repeated succession of new growths is described in the last verse of the chapter.

