
=== Junior

The general significance of the flood can be taught to children at this age, and the knowledge will save them from being affected by the many light remarks they are likely to hear about Noah and the flood. The lesson suggested in the third paragraph of their notes is one they especially need. They should also be introduced to the thought that the story of Noah pictures the development of a new church in the world. Be guided by their interest and their questions.

---
What does the Bible call the beautiful state in which the people of the Most Ancient Church lived?

Why are the people of this church called "Adam"?

What was the one thing Adam wanted which was not in the Garden?

How did the Lord provide this helper?

In the story of the Garden of Eden we are told that the "tree of life" was in the midst of the garden, and that there was also there the "tree of the knowledge of good and evil." Look back at the Creation story in chapter 1 and see when the trees first appeared. It was after the creation of light and after the waters above and below the firmament had been separated and the dry land appeared. The dry land is a picture of our character after we begin to learn the truth (the light) and to distinguish between heavenly and worldly things. It is then that we first begin really to think, and our thoughts are pictured by the plants that spring up out of the earth. The trees are the big general ideas that tower above all the others. We need to know this to understand how it came about that the descendants of the people who had known the beautiful Garden of Eden state could become so evil that they had to be destroyed by the flood. In the garden, the tree of life stands for the thought that all goodness and all truth come from the Lord alone and that we must learn them from Him. The tree of the knowledge of good and evil stands for the thought that we are smart enough to know what is right and wrong without learning from the Lord. In the story Adam and Eve were commanded not to eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil — but they disobeyed. And when they disobeyed, they were driven out of the garden. The thought that we do not need to learn of the Lord is the beginning of all our mistakes and all our wrongdoing.

The descendants of Adam and Eve became worse and worse. Their false ideas grew until they swallowed up all their spiritual life. This is pictured by the flood which covered even the mountains and destroyed all life from the earth. The flood was not a flood of water, but a flood of false ideas. There were always, however, some people who chose to follow the Lord instead of their own ideas; and these people are described in the story of Noah and his family. They did not have an easy time, but because they obeyed the Lord He was able to save them and to build up among their descendants a new church, called by Swedenborg the Ancient Church. Mythology calls this period the Silver Age.

Did you ever find yourself among a group of boys and girls who were bent on doing something you knew was wrong? Perhaps you tried to argue with them, and they were able to answer all your arguments and make you feel foolish for objecting; but you still in your heart knew that you ought not to join them. It was not an easy or a comfortable position to be in. It was very much like Noah in the ark, tossed about on the flood. The flood pictures a great temptation, and Noah was saved only by staying in the ark until the waters had gone down. When you are tempted to do what you know is wrong, stick to your principles through thick and thin, and you will come through safely.

After the rain had stopped, it is said that Noah opened the window which was in the top of the ark. This is a picture of opening our minds to instruction from the heavens; and the birds Noah sent out were his thoughts going out over the earth to see whether the temptation was over. There were two birds: one black and one white. There were a great many false ideas in the minds of even these good people, as there are in the minds of all of us, and these are pictured by the raven. And you notice that the raven did nothing but fly around. False ideas do not accomplish anything for us. But Noah also had the dove, which pictures a true thought. This did not bring him at once the information he wanted, but it went out again and again until Noah could be satisfied. If we go at a thing in the right way, looking for help to those who know more than we — as the people called "Noah" looked to the Lord — we shall succeed in time.

And the first thing Noah did when he and his family came out of the ark onto dry land again, was to build an altar and make sacrifices to the Lord. Whenever we are saved from yielding to temptation and brought again into a peaceful and happy state of mind, we should thank the Lord for His help: for it is the Lord who watches over us all the time and leads us safely, if we are willing to obey Him.

Sometime you will learn a great deal more about the meaning of this story. It tells of how the Lord saved the whole human race from destroying itself by evils, and found a new way to reach their minds and teach them after they had closed their hearts against Him. One thing you may remember is that the church which grew up from this beginning — the Ancient Church — knew a great deal about correspondences (the relation between spiritual and natural things) of which you are beginning to learn a little now as you learn of the meaning of light and of trees and of the flood and the raven and the dove. They understood these things and loved to study them, and they even wrote in the language of correspondences. The Ancient Word (the Bible which existed before our Bible and from which the first seven chapters of Genesis were taken by Moses) was written in the days of this church. In time this church also declined, as we shall soon learn; but its people spread all over the earth and many of the religions of the Orient and of other parts of the world are remnants of the knowledge of the people of the Ancient Church, remnants perverted because they have been handed down by tradition instead of in a written form dictated by the Lord.

How long did the rain last?

What was the first bird Noah sent out?

What other bird did he send out?

What is the difference between the raven and the dove?

What did the dove bring back in her mouth the second time?

What was the first thing Noah did when he came out of the ark?

What promise did the Lord make after this?

