
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The separation of the will and the understanding and its effect on the race and on the individual are important for this age group. It is not true that we "can't help" yielding to temptation. The Lord will give us strength if we obey the commandments. Such obedience may seem a hardship for a time, but this is a necessary step to greater strength and happiness. They know that we do not gain physical strength by doing easy things. The same is true of spiritual strength.

---
In Genesis 6:1-8 we have the key to the meaning of the story of Noah and the flood. The daughters of men are the affections which sprang from the selfish will of the degenerating race in the Most Ancient Church. The sons of God are the truths which they received by tradition and which had originally come from the Lord. We recall that the first people were governed through their hearts - the characteristic of the celestial type. This meant that when their hearts became evil, all the truths they knew were twisted to conform to their evil desires, and there was no possibility of change for them. They assumed credit to themselves for all truth, and became great in their own eyes: "there were giants in the earth in those days." In fact, their opinion of themselves eventually resulted in actual physical overgrowth, so that they were giants physically, also. A few of these ancient giants survived the destruction of the race pictured by the flood, and we find them mentioned in the historical parts of the Word as the Anakim, etc., and as individuals such as Goliath of Gath, and Og, king of Bashan. "And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually."

We see an analogy to this today in the case of a self-exalted man who twists everything he sees to suit his own ambition. But today there is always the possibility of reform for such a man because his mind and his will are still actually separate: that is, he can, if he will, admit some truth which is contrary to his desire. The longer one persists in selfishness, the harder this is; but it never becomes impossible as it was with the Most Ancient people. Swedenborg tells us that at the end of the Most Ancient Church, the great majority of the people were actually suffocated because of their own fantasies; but that in those pictured by Noah in whom there still remained some desire to serve the Lord, the Lord wrought a change by separating the will and the understanding so that He could reach them through their minds. This is pictured in the letter by the fact that the ark had "rooms" in it. The ark is the character of the man of that time who was willing to obey the Lord. The heart was prevailingly evil; but through obedience to the Lord it could remain safe from destruction during the temptation represented by the flood. The animals and birds shut up in the ark with Noah picture his affections and thoughts, both good and bad. The pitch with which the ark was covered inside and out is the motive of self-preservation. The door in the side which was kept shut throughout the flood is his normal communication with others. The window toward heaven, which was also shut during the temptation but was opened immediately after the flood, represents the mode of access for truths from heaven.

Many people think of the Christian life as a life of restraint, and so it may be for a time to the man who has formed bad habits. This is Noah shut up in the ark. But when temptation ceases to tempt him — when he has formed new habits which he finds he likes better than the old — he comes to live the Christian life freely and with happiness. This is Noah coming out of the ark to repeople the earth. The raven and the dove which he first sent forth to see if the waters were abated, are his natural, false ideas and his true thoughts. The raven flew about and accomplished nothing, but the dove persisted until it found the olive, a symbol of goodness and truth in the new life. (The olive fruit represents the good of charity and its leaf the truth of charity.) If this seems obscure, let us think of our own experience in trying a new way of life. Even after the strong temptation to "backslide" is over, we are a little shy of the new life, trying it out here and there to see if it is really all that was claimed for it. This is like sending out the raven and the dove. The raven says, "Will this new way really get me anywhere?" The dove says, "Is it really the good and useful way?"

Noah's building the altar and making sacrifices thereon of clean beasts and birds, pictures a new type of worship of the Lord which developed in the second or Ancient Church. We recall that the people of the Most Ancient Church had open communication with the heavens and were instructed by the Lord by a direct impulse of the heart. This was the celestial state. But after the will and understanding were separated, ideas of God had to be formed in the mind; truth had to be presented there, and considered, and so chosen as a way of life. The people of the Most Ancient Church had seen in everything about them in the world, representations of spiritual things. This knowledge was passed on by tradition to their descendants, who formed the Ancient Church, cherished it, and made it their greatest study and delight. The altar and the sacrifices represented worship of the Lord and the dedication of their affections and thoughts to His service. In this way forms of worship arose whose meaning was at first fully understood. Also the symbol teachings were written down, under inspiration from the Lord, and formed what Swedenborg calls the Ancient Word. The nature of this Word we can know from the first seven chapters of Genesis, which we are told were copied from it; and some of its books are mentioned by name in our Word. Swedenborg said that in his day the Ancient Word might still be in existence in Great Tartary.

Our first desire after we have passed through a severe temptation and find ourselves moving freely in a new life should be, like Noah's, to thank the Lord for our deliverance, and to offer to Him the service of our hearts and minds. And as we do this, our lives begin to fall into a new and lasting order, governed by the Lord. This is what is meant by the last verses of our chapter. The Lord takes care of His church in the world, and sees to it that it shall never be destroyed. When one dispensation perverts its revelation and declines, He prepares the good remnant of its people to form a new church: "seedtime and harvest" never fail. We shall have more to say about this in a future lesson.

