
=== Notes for Parents

Parents do a great deal for their children at Christmas time.

They often make real personal sacrifices or sit up late at night working in order to have gifts and a tree and a feast to make the day a happy one. But there is one gift they sometimes deny their children which is the most important gift of all, and that is a knowledge of the meaning and holiness of Christmas.

On the first Christmas Day the Lord gave to all of us the greatest and richest gift ever given — Himself. He "bowed the heavens and came down for our salvation." And all too often we do not even think to thank Him for this gift on His birthday or to be sure our children know of it.

And there are gifts we should bring to Him on His birthday. The Wise Men from the East brought Him gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh. These were all valuable things, but it was not for their intrinsic value that they were given. The Wise Men knew what these three gifts signified, just as they knew what the star meant when it appeared to them. They were of those who had cherished the knowledges which had come down to them by tradition from ancient times when men lived close to the Lord and knew what everything in His creation meant.

Everyone knows that gold is symbolic of love. Love is one of the things we should give the Lord. Frankincense is the offering of our minds, our thoughts, our trust, our faith. And myrrh — a bitter resin — pictures obedience in our conduct, which is not always easy, but is a very necessary gift if we are to be true followers of the Lord.

Sometimes we start our lives very far from the Lord, but if we try to do as well as we know how, wishing always to know more of the right way, the little truth we have will be like the star leading us always closer to the Lord. Sometimes we are like the shepherds, living in the Holy Land itself close to Bethlehem, brought up in the church and taught by our parents in the right way. The shepherds, you remember, saw a great light. It was the same light which was a star to the far-off Wise Men. The shepherds had only a short way to go to find the Lord, while the Wise Men had a long journey. But they all found Him. The condition of finding the Lord is always the same — the desire to be shown how to live good lives.

Let us today be wise like the Wise Men of old. If our minds are open to receive truth from the Lord's Word, we shall see the star and be led to the Lord, and when we find Him, we shall lay our gifts at His feet: the gold of our love, the frankincense of our faith and trust, and the strong myrrh of obedience.

