
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
It is suggested that in taking up the Creation story, the teacher refer to the attack which has been made upon its authenticity, point out that the Bible is the Lord's revelation to us and is not concerned with things we can find out for ourselves; and go on from there to the general meaning of the six steps of creation in their relation to the development of the race and of the individual, with particular emphasis on the reason why light appears in the story before the creation of the sun, moon, and stars, and why each day is said to go from evening to morning.

---
In Revelation 20:12 we read, "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." It would be difficult for anyone to read this verse and fail to understand that by "the books" are meant the record of the lives of those who are being judged, and that by "the book of life" is meant the Bible. Throughout the history of the Christian Church, therefore, the pressing problem of salvation has been tied inseparably to that of the nature and interpretation of the Bible. Before the development of natural science, Christians were for the most part content to accept the Bible as literally true and to leave its interpretation to the priesthood, living in the simple belief that if they did what their priests told them to do, they were obeying the Lord and would be saved. With the invention of printing, however, and the consequent wide distribution of the Bible, men began to read it for themselves and to develop differences of opinion as to its interpretation, and inevitably differences of opinion as to what constituted conduct in accordance with the Bible teaching. And these differences were aggravated as the findings of natural science began to cast doubt upon the literal accuracy of the Bible narrative. Actually the unique character of the Bible should be evident from the very volume and persistence of the study which it has produced, to say nothing of the literature that has been influenced by it. It is significant that even those today who believe that the Bible is the product of human minds often confess to feeling its strange power and try in various ways to account for this power.

It is not the Lord's fault that men refuse to recognize His Word as a revelation from Him; the refusal is in the individual will. The Lord has always told men all they needed to know about Himself. To the two on the way to Emmaus He said: "'O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken' ... And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself" (Luke 24:25,27). And just before He allowed Himself to be taken He said, "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now" (John 16:12). This further revelation foretold to the disciples was given to the world through Emanuel Swedenborg just as soon as men's minds were ready to receive it, and in time to meet the humanistic and scientific attacks upon the Bible. As we read the @AC , we are constantly coming upon statements which show that Swedenborg, who was one of the most noted scientists of his day, was fully aware of all the facts which are brought forward to prove that the Bible is the work of men. This is indicated by many statements like the following from @AC 2674 concerning the sending away of Hagar and Ishmael: "Every one can see that these historic statements involve arcana, from the fact that Abraham, who was rich in flock and herd, and also in gold and silver, sent away in this manner his handmaid by whom he had a son, and the boy Ishmael whom he much loved, giving them only bread and water." And he says repeatedly that only a knowledge of the internal sense can account for the peculiarities of the letter of Scripture, and that the Lord revealed the internal sense for the specific purpose of saving good men from losing their faith in the Word. It is therefore of supreme importance that we, and our children as soon as they are old enough, study the internal sense as well as the letter of the Word.

The Creation story is an outstanding example of this necessity.

Science makes it obvious that it cannot be literally true. Archaeology turns up similar stories in other ancient literatures. As Swedenborg says, men ask "How can this be Divine?" Yet the Creation story is the foundation of the Word and the basis of all our understanding of the Lord's purpose in our creation and of the working of His Divine providence in our lives. We are told through Swedenborg that the literal sense of the first eleven chapters is not history in the sense in which the rest of the Word is history: These eleven chapters were copied by Moses from the Ancient Word — the Word which existed before our Word and which was still in existence in the time of Moses. All the stories of Creation, of the Garden of Eden, and of the Flood found in literatures other than the Hebrew had their source in this same account in the Ancient Word, but they came down in the form of tradition and so are not in themselves verbally inspired. The Ancient Word was written in the language of pure symbol, the language in which the people of the Ancient Church thought and wrote. No one in that day misunderstood the Creation story or took it for an account of the creation of the physical universe. There are quotations in other parts of our Bible from other books of the Ancient Word, and some of these books are mentioned by name (See Numbers 21:14-16, 27-28; Joshua 10:13; 2 Samuel 1:18). Swedenborg also tells us that the book of Job — a book which has puzzled scholars because it has the language characteristics of a very old Hebrew book and yet manifests highly developed philosophical concepts — is "a book of the Ancient Church," lacking an inner sense but written in the "forms of expression in common use in the Ancient Church" (@AC 2682).

The Creation story, like the rest of the inspired Word, coming down as it does from the Lord through the heavens, has within it several levels of meaning. For us it is primarily the story of the creation of a human soul. We may see it in its relation to our development from infancy to adult life, or, as Swedenborg especially interprets it in the Arcana, as the process of regeneration. In every individual there are two natures: a higher or spiritual, and a lower or natural — the heavens and the earth. So long as he remains, whether innocently or willfully, in ignorance of spiritual things, his soul is actually in darkness and undeveloped; but the Lord is constantly seeking to awaken him. The first response is like the coming of light, and after that he is able to see that some knowledges relate to spiritual and others to natural things — the waters above and below the firmament. All life is from the Lord, and man does not begin really to live until he recognizes God and tries to learn of Him. At first his knowledge of God is derived from others and is like a diffused light in his mind, but as he begins to think and act from the principle of doing what is right in the Lord's sight instead of what is pleasing to himself, living things begin to appear in his soul and he comes to know from his own experience what it is to love the Lord and to believe in Him and trust His guidance — the sun, moon, and stars appear clearly in the sky. The sun is love to the Lord shining in our states of clear understanding; the moon is faith and trust showing us our way even when everything seems dark and incomprehensible. The stars are all the knowledges of spiritual things which, as we relate them to each other, gradually form patterns in our minds and help to direct us. Living thoughts and affections — the birds, fish, and animals — are then possible, and one is formed into a true man, in the image and likeness of his Creator. Only then can one find rest and peace.

"And the evening and the morning were the first day." In this lesson we are centering our thought on the first four days of Creation. The outstanding characteristic of this part of the story is the appearance, effect, and increase of light. In the letter of the inspired Word there is nothing accidental. In our natural activities we think of a day as beginning with the morning and ending with the evening, but when we stop to think, we may realize that from morning to evening there is a decline — a decline in strength, in vitality, in mental keenness, in endurance — until we reach the point when we must stop and wait for the renewal which comes with sleep. In the writings of Swedenborg we are told that it is during our periods of sleep that the Lord can do most for us, because then our concentration on our own affairs and on the natural world about us is in temporary abeyance, and our souls are open to heavenly influences. This is why it is provided that children shall have such long periods of sleep, and why sleep has such curative value. The physical rebuilding is the least of the values of sleep. If we are inclined to boast that we do not need so much sleep as the average person, it is time for us to take serious thought as to our spiritual state. Actually progress is from evening to morning — from a state of ignorance to one of understanding — and this is the work of the Creator, not of ourselves. Day by day we must seek continually to learn in order that we may progress.

