
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AC 22: "What is meant by 'evening' and what by 'morning' can now be discerned. 'Evening' means every preceding state, because it is a state of shade, or of falsity and of no faith; 'morning' is every subsequent state, being one of light, or of truth and of the knowledges of faith. 'Evening,' in a general sense, signifies all things that are of man's own; but 'morning' whatever is of the Lord, as is said through David: 'The spirit of Jehovah spake in me, and His word was on my tongue; the God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spake to me; He is as the light of the morning, when the sun ariseth, even a morning without clouds, when from brightness, from rain, the tender herb springeth out of the earth' (2 Samuel 23:2-4). As it is 'evening' when there is no faith, and 'morning' when there is faith, therefore the coming of the Lord into the world is called 'morning'; and the time when He comes, because then there is no faith, is called 'evening' ... In like manner 'morning' is used in the Word to denote every coming of the Lord; consequently it is an expression of new creation."

@AC 291: "When the 'earth,' or man, has been thus prepared to receive celestial seeds from the Lord, and to produce something of what is good and true, then the Lord first causes some tender thing to spring forth, which is called the 'tender herb'; then something more useful, which again bears seeds in itself, and is called the 'herb yielding seed'; and at length something good which becomes fruitful, and is called the 'tree bearing fruit, whose seed is in itself,' each according to its own kind. The man who is being regenerated is at first of such a quality that he supposes the good which he does, and the truth which he speaks, to be from himself, when in reality all good and all truth are from the Lord, so that whosoever supposes them to be from himself has not as yet the life of true faith, which nevertheless he may afterwards receive; for he cannot as yet believe that they are from the Lord, because he is only in a state of preparation for the reception of the life of faith. This state is here represented by things inanimate, and the succeeding one of the life of faith, by animate things."

@TCR 732: "The laws of order prescribed for man, are that man should acquire for himself truths from the Word, and think of them naturally, and so far as he can, rationally, and thus procure for himself natural faith. The laws of order on the part of God then are, that He should approach, fill the truths with His Divine Light, and thus fill with the Divine Essence man's natural faith, which is only knowledge and persuasion. Thus, and not otherwise, is saving faith produced."

