
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
For this class the teacher will need to study the Older Teen and Adult notes as well as the Younger Teen notes, in order that he may have more to add to what is given in the pupils' notes; but in developing the lesson he should follow the general outline of the pupils' notes. Do not neglect the introduction given at the beginning of this lesson. Try to cover the lesson rapidly enough to leave time for questions and discussion.

---
The first chapter of the Bible, like all the rest of the Word, is a parable. It seems to tell us about the creation of the natural world; and of course it is true that God created everything in the natural world, including our physical bodies. But men can find out about nature for themselves, and the Lord wrote the Word to tell us things which we cannot find out in this way. That means things about our souls.

So the Creation story really tells us how our souls were and are developed by the Lord. When we are born, we have a physical nature — not just a body, but a mind capable of growing into a knowledge of all the things we need for life in this world. This is "the earth" of our souls. And animals have this earth, too. But we have another nature which the animals do not have: a spiritual nature capable of learning about God and heavenly things. This is "the heaven."

In a little baby both of these natures are just in their beginnings.

The state each of us is in as a baby is described in verse 2. The "darkness" is ignorance. Do you know that people of every language all over the world say "I see" when they mean "I understand"? This is what is called the language of correspondence: the correspondence of natural or physical things with spiritual or heavenly things. In the beginning everyone understood this correspondence and spoke in its language, and many of the expressions — like "I see" — have come down to us, although the general principle was lost. If you keep this in mind, you will soon notice some of these expressions in our common speech. All of the Word of God is written in this language of correspondence.

The first instance of this which we shall consider in this lesson is the word darkness. It is the opposite of light. If darkness signifies ignorance, what does light mean? So when the Word tells us (verse 3), "and God said, Let there be light: and there was light," it is speaking of the time in our earliest childhood when we first begin to "see" or understand things. The next step — the second day — is when we begin to be able to understand more than just the physical things like eating and walking and handling; we learn that we must obey our parents or be called naughty, that we should be gentle and kind to others, etc. Water corresponds to truth, and the waters above the firmament are truths about spiritual or heavenly things, while those under the firmament are truths about natural or earthly things.

The dry land which appears on the third day is the character which we develop as we choose to do right or wrong, and this character is the ground out of which grow all kinds of thoughts, just as all sorts of grass and herbs and plants grow out of the earth. The actions to which these thoughts lead are the fruits.

The fourth day or state is the time when we are old enough to think about God and come to love Him and believe in Him, and want to know more and more about Him and about what we can do to please Him. This love is the sun which warms our hearts and lights our minds; our belief in God is the moon which shows us our way even when we cannot understand the "why" of things (the night-time). And the stars are all knowledges which our minds gather about heavenly things, which often seem far away from our present life and not very helpful, and yet gradually form patterns in our minds by which we may be guided, just as wise sailors can find their location and direction from the stars.

The living things which come on the fifth and sixth days are the affections or tastes we develop as our characters become fully formed, until finally we are grown-up men and women, ready to govern our own lives and put all our knowledges to use — to "have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth" (verse 28).

Psalm 118 begins, "O give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; because his mercy endureth forever," and verses 23 and 24 of the same Psalm suggest the feeling we ought to have when we reach the seventh day of rest:

"This is the Lord's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it."

