
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Note the suggestions made above in regard to the Lord and the Word, and be sure the pupils are familiar with these thoughts. Then go on to the Creation story, calling attention to its true meaning. The Older Children should be introduced to the idea that the Word has an internal meaning relating to our souls, which is its important meaning, and told that no one can learn this meaning unless he knows the literal story well and reads it regularly. Our effort is to give them glimpses of the internal sense which will show them how much is in store for them as they grow older, and will form a basis for more detailed study in the intermediate class. This can be done very well in connection with the creation of light and of the sun, moon, and stars. The teacher will find the answer to the last question suggested in their notes by reading the notes for the older classes. But see if any of the class can figure out the answer before you give it.

---
What book do we study in Sunday School?

Who is its Author?

By what other names is it called?

What is the name of the first book in the Bible?

Genesis means "beginning." This book tells us about the beginning of everything in the world. The first chapter seems to be about the creation of the earth and all the plants and animals and people on it, but this is only the outside meaning.

How many days did this creation take?

What happened on the seventh day?

At the end of this lesson you will find a list of questions. Look up the answers in your Bible and write them after the questions. This will help you to remember the "order of creation." We can also remember that it is because of this story of creation that we and other people all over the world find it good to work six days and on the seventh day to rest and worship the Lord. In your Bible look up Exodus 20:8-11.

Scientists are finding out more and more about the earth all the time. One of the things they have found out is that it took many thousands of years to form the earth. This makes some people doubt the Bible. But we need not be troubled by this, for we know that the whole Word is a parable. A parable is a story which has a deeper meaning within it. When you are a little older, you will study the deeper meaning of this story of creation. It is a wonderful study.

Even now you may be able to see a little of the deeper meaning, which tells us how our souls are made by the Lord. What does the first verse say? "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth." The Lord did create the sky and the earth, but in each one of us — in our souls — there are also "the heaven and the earth," a higher and a lower nature. When you want very much to do something which your father or mother has told you not to do, there is a battle within you between your higher and your lower nature. Your higher nature tells you to do what is right, but your lower nature wants the thing, which looks pleasant. When you were a little baby, you did not know enough even to think about right and wrong. Read the second verse and see how it tells about that time when your soul was empty and ignorant.

Did you ever, when your father or your mother was explaining something to you, say all of a sudden, "Oh, I see"? You did not mean that you saw something with your eyes, did you? You saw something with your mind. Read verses 3, 4, and 5. When you were a little child and first began to see things with your mind, it was like the coming of light. This was the first day in your soul. Now perhaps you can see that day in this story of creation does not mean a day like Sunday or Monday or Tuesday. It means a new state of thinking and feeling. And it may mean a long period of time, too. Did you ever hear an old person say, "In my day everybody did so and so"?

So each day in this chapter really describes a new step in our growing up. When you get into the Younger Teen class, you will study more of these steps, but for now it is enough to remember that light pictures the understanding of truth, and darkness pictures ignorance. With this knowledge, see if you can figure out why in our chapter it always says "the evening and the morning" instead of "the morning and the evening."

What did God create on the first day?

What did God create on the second day?

What did God create on the third day?

What did God create on the fourth day?

What did God create on the fifth day?

What did God create on the sixth day?

What did God do on the seventh day?

