
=== Primary

Call the children's attention to your Bible and see if they know what book it is. Explain to them that it is the Lord's Book, which He has written so that we may know about Him. Then go on to the first things He tells us about Himself and the world. Tell them that God is our Heavenly Father to whom we pray — the same Person who came into the world as the Lord Jesus — and that He loves us and takes care of us; and that if we try to do what He tells us is right, we shall be happy. Then talk about light and darkness and about what the sun, moon, and stars do for us, reminding them that the Lord made these things for us.

This is a good opportunity to point out briefly the two parts of the Word: the Old and the New Testaments. Speak of the wonderful opportunity the Lord has given us to learn about Him, of the need of studying the Word all our lives, and of the reverence we should feel for it.

Did you know that God made the light? Some mornings when you wake up the sky is blue and the sun is bright and you can play out-of-doors. Then you are happy. Then some mornings it is raining and you have to play in the house, but still you can see everything. That is because, although the sky is covered with clouds from which the rain is coming, the sun is up above the clouds still, and it gives so much light that it shines right through.

But after you have played all day and had your supper, it is dark outside, and dark in the house too, unless your mother turns on the lights. The sun has not stopped shining, but it is around on the other side of the earth making daytime for little Chinese and Japanese girls and boys.

Have you ever been out-of-doors at night? If you have, you have seen the stars way up in the sky, and perhaps the moon. God made those, too. He made the whole sky and the earth, and He made all the plants and trees, and the birds and fishes and animals, and He made you and me and everybody.

God made all these things because He loves us and wants us to be happy. And we can always be happy if we love Him and each other. When we love people, we try to make them happy. Let us read our lesson from the Bible.

What did God create on the first day?

What did He create on the second day?

What did He create on the third day?

What two great lights did God make on the fourth day?

What little lights did He make?

Can you think of some of the things the sun does for us?

When can we see the moon and stars?

You know that at night sailors can steer their ships by the stars.

Don't you think we should all thank the Lord for making such a beautiful world for us to live in?

He made it because He loves us. When we love people, we want to make them happy. Selfishness is the opposite of love. It makes everybody unhappy, even the selfish people themselves. So we must try not to be selfish.

