
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class the introductory material may well be given as a statement of the difference between the New Church teaching concerning the Lord and the Word and the teachings of all other churches. It is good for young people at this age to know that their church has clear and definite knowledge concerning many points which trouble people, and that even if they themselves may not yet be ready to discuss these points with others, there are reasonable answers to all of people's religious questions. Young people discuss religion and argue about it among themselves much more frequently than we are likely to think, and we should take every opportunity to give them a sense of the wonderful things available to them in the writings of the New Church.

---
Try to save time each week to read and discuss with the class the quotations from these writings found at the end of their notes and, if possible, inspire them to begin reading for themselves. The Creation story, being one most often challenged, is the best possible beginning for developing this sense of the unique opportunity offered us by the Lord in His Second Coming.

One of the questions which sooner or later arise in anyone's mind is, "How did the world as we know it start?" Scientists, including Swedenborg, have spent years in studying the rocks and the various remains preserved in their strata, in the effort to answer this question; and different theories of the origin of the universe have been developed. Yet no human investigations or man-made theories can really answer it. The only answer is given us in the first verse of the Bible: "In the beginning God .... " God is the beginning of everything we are and everything we know. His name, as He gave it to Moses at the burning bush (Exodus 3:13-14), is Jehovah — "I Am" — Life Itself, from Whom everything in the world receives its life from moment to moment.

The first chapter of Genesis is a wonderful parable in which God Himself tells us the order of our creation. The world of nature, about which the chapter seems to speak, is only a picture of the real world of spirit. The six days of creation are six stages of development, not only in the world of nature in a general way, but in the human race as a whole and in every individual, including you and me.

Let us think of the story particularly as it applies to our individual development. We start with two natures, a higher and a lower, "the heaven and the earth." When we are born, these are only potential, "without form and void," and we are in "darkness" as to the mind; but God is at work in us, and presently our consciousness of the world about us begins to develop — the light comes. Very soon — surprisingly soon — we begin to realize that life is more than eating and sleeping and play: there are such things as right and wrong about which we must learn; the truths or "waters" of the spiritual nature are separated from those concerned only with our physical well-being. Then, as we choose the higher or the lower, the solid ground of our individual character begins to be formed, and from it develop our own ideas and reasonings, at first simple and fleeting like the grass, and then more and more strong and lasting. The permanent affections — our various tastes and loves — are last to develop, but finally we become full-grown men and women and can know the peace and rest of established character.

But in our brief sketch we have left out one day — the fourth — the central one of the seven. On it, according to the story, God created the sun, moon, and stars. Psalm 84:11 tells us "The Lord God is a sun and shield," and in prophecy (Malachi 4:2) the Lord Jesus Christ is called "the Sun of righteousness." Somewhere in our development, if it is normal and sound, there comes a time when we really see that the Lord is, and that all our life — the light of our minds and the warmth of our hearts — comes from Him. The sun has burst forth through our clouds of ignorance. From then on the Sun rules our daytimes — the states in which we see our way clearly and love to do as the Lord wishes us to do. But these states are not constant. We have night times too, when doubts and fears arise and we do not see our way. In such states our sun — our love for the Lord — seems to disappear. But we still have the belief that the Lord's way is right whether we understand it or not. This is a reflected light like that of the moon. And we still have our knowledges of the Lord's truth which, like the stars, even though small and scattered and apparently far from our immediate purpose, still form patterns which can give us direction.

One of the criticisms which has been made of the Creation story is that light appears before the creation of the sun; but we can see how, in the inner meaning, this is an orderly and beautiful development. The Lord is at work in our souls from the beginning, bringing us gradually out of darkness into full sunlight. This order is seen also in the repeated expression, "and the evening and the morning were .... " So the Psalmist writes:

"The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge." — Psalm 19:1-2

