
=== Adult

The Adults, who are more familiar with the Psalms than the children, will probably be most interested in discussing the reason for their popularity and the implications of this reason. The fact that the first Psalm presents our fundamental choice and tells us clearly the consequences involved in each alternative should make a deep impression. Point out our constant temptation to compromise, and our need to read and use all the Psalms as the Lord has given them to us instead of just picking out a Psalm or a few verses here and there which especially please us.

In approaching the study uf the book of Psalms we should also be familiar with Luke 24:44. Although the Jews did not consider the book of Psalms of equal inspiration with the Law and the Prophets, we are given in the letter of Scripture the assurance first of David and then of the Lord Himself that the Psalms were divinely inspired and that they thus inmostly treat of the Lord's life. And we are familiar with the fact that some of them — notably the twenty-second — are literally prophetic of that life. We should all be familiar with our New Church "canon" of Scripture and the reasons behind it, because the inclusion of books with an inner sense and those without it side by side in both Old and New Testaments has been one of the fruitful sources of the confusion in men's minds concerning doctrinal authority.

The ancient Hebrews were much more careful in this matter than the Christian Church has been. They at least kept the books of whose divine inspiration they were not absolutely sure in a separate collection — the Kethubim or sacred writings. They did not mean these when they spoke of the Law and the Prophets. They should have known from David that the Psalms were inspired, but their familiar use in the temple services apparently made them doubtful. They perhaps seemed to them what our hymn books are to us.

It was natural to the Israelites to express their feelings in song, and we know from Psalm 137 that their songs were famous even outside their own nation. 1 Chronicles 15:16-22 tells us that certain families of the Levites were specially trained as singers and musicians for the tabernacle and temple worship, and Psalm 150 names several of the instruments used to accompany the Psalms. We find particular groups of instruments called for by their Hebrew names in the titles of certain Psalms. The word Selah, which we come upon here and there throughout the Psalms, is thought to have been a musical notation. We should all learn to sing the Psalms. The rules for chanting are really very simple, and the chant form is the only one in which they can be sung without changing the wording in such a way that the divine order and sequence would be destroyed.

We know that the Psalms are different from every other part of the Word and that they are the most universally read and loved of all its books. There are several reasons for this. One is that they are direct expressions of the feeling and thought of the ordinary man — perfect expressions put upon our lips by the Lord. Another is that they cover the whole range of our inner experience, if we are sincere and religious people. Another is that they help us to recognize the Lord's hand in nature and His providence in all the events of life. And still another — the most important of all — is that they give us the feeling of close, personal contact with the Lord. When we read or sing the Psalms, we are talking with the Lord. In this sense every Psalm may be thought of as a prayer.

Let us come now to our special assignment for today — the first Psalm. It should not be hard to see why it is the first, for it sets before us our fundamental choice: to believe in God and obey Him or to deny God and His Word. This choice is offered to each one of us and it is our own free choice. No one can make us either believe or disbelieve. We cannot say why we do one or the other although after we have made our choice, we can find countless reasons to support it, whichever it is. The godly and the ungodly man are simply two men who have freely chosen to face in opposite directions. But the Lord leaves us in no doubt as to the outcome. The godly man will be happy and the ungodly man unhappy.

In this Psalm the "counsel of the ungodly" is set in direct contrast with the "law of the Lord." This is the phase of the problem which we perhaps need to see most clearly. In the Gospels the Lord tells us, "Ye cannot serve God and mammon." Our most subtle and persistent foe is the temptation to try to compromise between worldly reasoning and the law of the Lord. But our Psalm tells us plainly that if we let ourselves begin to walk in the counsel of the ungodly, we are all too liable to go the rest of the way — to find ourselves presently standing in the way of sinners and finally sitting in the seat of the scornful. @AE 687[6] defines these steps for us (see below).

The beautiful picture of the godly man as a fruitful tree growing beside the river reminds us of the tree of life in the garden of Eden — there also contrasted with that other tree whose fruit was death - and of the same tree of life on the banks of the river of water of life in the Holy City New Jerusalem. And verse 2 brings to mind the first of Swedenborg's "Rules of Life": "Diligently to read and meditate on the Word of God."

The last verse of the first Psalm sets the key for the whole book:

"For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish." Throughout the Psalms the results of our fundamental choice of God or self are kept steadily before us. This is because the Lord knows our weakness and that we need to see both sides of the picture not once but often. The attempt to close our eyes to the dark side, to read out of the Word all the harsh condemnations of the evil is not delighting in the law of the Lord, but is walking in the counsel of the ungodly. The Lord wrote the Word. He knows us better than we know ourselves. When we read the Psalms, therefore, let us read them in all humility as He gave them to us. And let us not pick out only the ones we especially like. Let us read and meditate upon them all.

