
=== Intermediate

After a brief introduction about the book of Psalms as a whole, present the first Psalm as giving us the basis for a life that will turn out to be genuinely happy. Develop the correspondence of verse 3 and contrast it with the correspondence of chaff. Emphasize the need of daily reading of the Word.

---
In the twenty-fourth chapter of Luke we are told that after His resurrection the Lord opened the understanding of some of His disciples to understand the Scriptures, explaining many things which had puzzled them and which they had not been ready to understand before they saw Him pass through death and appear whole and alive afterward. In Luke 24:44 He says: "These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me." For the Jews the law of Moses meant the first five books of the Old Testament as we have it today, the prophets meant the books of Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings — which they called the "former prophets" - and the books of the Old Testament from Isaiah through Malachi, which they called the "latter prophets." They did not include in these the books of Lamentations and Daniel. These two, the book of Ruth, and the ten books between 2 Kings and Isaiah they did not consider to be of the same degree of inspiration as the rest, and they collected them in a separate group which they called the Kethubim or Sacred Writings.

As New Church young people, you should remember that what could be called the New Church canon of Scripture — the list of books considered to be the Word of God — is the same as the Jewish canon, plus the books of Psalms, Lamentations, and Daniel, and in the New Testament the four Gospels and the book of Revelation. For us a book is identified as a book of the Word by the possession of a continuous internal meaning relating to the Lord's life. This can be recognized if you know your correspondences. We shall treat of the books of Daniel and Lamentations later. In regard to the Psalms you should remember that the Lord Himself told His disciples that the Psalms treated of Him.

The Psalms are perhaps the most read and most loved part of the Bible. This is because we find in them the expression of all our states and needs in words better than any we could think of ourselves and also a clear statement of what the Lord can and should mean to us in these states. People do not read the Psalms when they are feeling proud and self-satisfied, but when they are realizing their weakness and need of the Lord.

The first Psalm tells us just this. Blessed means "happy." We cannot be happy if we listen to worldly advice, if we choose our associates from those who care nothing about the Lord, or if we set ourselves up and despise as ignorant those who disagree with us. We can be happy only if we look to the Lord for guidance in all things and read and "meditate" on the Word every day. For it is only as we study and obey the teachings of the Word that the Lord can enter our hearts and give us as our own the unselfish love which brings happiness.

Verse 3 is a beautiful picture of the life of a good man or woman.

Trees picture general principles. A river pictures truth from the Lord flowing into our minds to make our principles sound and strong and our thinking sane. A man is like a strong tree planted by the rivers of water when his life is based on the principle of obedience to the Lord and nourished by a constant inflow of truth from the Word. The leaves of the tree are the true thoughts which come from the mind of such a man. They do not wither because his thoughts, being according to the Lord's truth, never have to be discarded or changed. The fruit of the tree is a useful life, a life of service to God and man.

The chaff to which the ungodly are likened is a picture of the foolish and worthless thoughts of those who imagine they know enough to live without the Lord. People who depend upon human intelligence are always finding themselves faced with the necessity of changing their ideas. You will hear people say, "What is true for one generation may not be true for another. There is no absolute truth." This is an "ungodly" state of mind and such people are blown away by every wind of changing human opinion. Our study of the Word should show us that there is one constant stream of truth to which we can go in every age and in every situation. We read in Isaiah 40:7-8: "The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word of our God shall stand for ever."

