
=== Notes for Parents

The book of Psalms is without doubt the best loved and most generally read book in the Bible. We ought to be able to assume from this that it is the best known. But is it? How many of us read all the Psalms — in the course of a year, let us say? Do not most of us say we love the Psalms but actually know only the twenty-third by heart and a few others really well?

There is a reason for all this. Many of the Psalms were dictated to David by the Lord, as David himself testifies in 2 Samuel 23:1-2. David was a musician as well as a king, and the Psalms were given through him as songs to be sung, because music is an expression of the emotions and reaches the heart. What the Psalms give us are words from the Lord Himself to express adequately all the feelings we ought to have in the course of our lives about the Lord and about ourselves in relation to Him.

We all have times when we think about God. So we all find certain Psalms which mean something to us. The reason why the twenty-third Psalm is the best known and loved is that it brings comfort in the states of trouble and bereavement which come to all alike, and in which people are most likely to turn to the Lord.

But very few of us "walk with the Lord" in all our experiences.

Most of us, when all is going well with us, are satisfied with things — including ourselves — as they are, and have no desire to look within to see whether all is really right there or not. And the Psalms probe deep. They point out our weaknesses and sins and steadily direct our thought to these and to our need of the Lord's correction and guidance every day, whatever our outward circumstances may be. Some do not like to be reminded of these things. So they "edit" the Psalms to suit themselves, picking out the "smooth" and comforting things and ignoring the rest.

This is not what the Lord tells us to do. In the very first Psalm He points out to us clearly that there is but one road to genuine and lasting happiness and that is to delight in the law of the Lord and to meditate in it day and night — in the times when all seems bright to us as well as in our dark and troubled states.

In the first verse we are told the particular temptations into which we are most likely to fall. How prone we all are to listen to the worldly advice of those who have no real belief in God and spiritual things! We let ourselves be influenced, we yield our principles here and there. We say, "everybody does it." This is the first step toward spiritual death. From this, as our verse shows us, we go on gradually to accept the way of the sinner as our own and finally give up our belief in God and the Word and sit "in the seat of the scornful." How shallow and short-sighted this course is, as the Lord tells us when He says that the ungodly are "like the chaff which the wind driveth away."

