
=== Primary

The children should learn that the Psalms are songs, that David was chosen by the Lord to write many of them, that they were sung in the services of the tabernacle and temple in Jerusalem, and that we sometimes sing them in our services. Read the first Psalm to them and then talk to them about how our souls grow just as a tree does. You may even tell them that the Word is the river close to which our tree of life must grow. Tell them about the place of the book of Psalms in the Bible, and about what the Psalms give us.

The worship of ancient Israel was different in many ways from our worship in our churches today, but there was one part of it which we should have recognized if it had been translated from Hebrew into English, for they sang the very same Psalms which we sometimes sing today.

When David was king, he made Jerusalem his capital and brought the ark there, making a new tabernacle or tent to keep it in, and he wrote many psalms or songs to be sung in connection with the worship there. For David was a musician and a player on the harp as well as a king. Music was a very important part of their worship, and whole families were trained to sing and play on instruments.

Many of the Psalms were written by David.

Did David make them up himself?

Let us read what he says in 2 Samuel 23:1-2. You see the Lord put the words into David's mind. So the Psalms, as well as the rest of the Word, are the Lord speaking to us.

And the very first Psalm tells us how to be happy; for the Lord wants us all to be happy and He knows much better than we do what will give us happiness. You know sometimes we think we want something and then after we get it, we find we don't like it at all. Let us listen to what the Lord tells us in the first Psalm and think about what it means. The word blessed means "happy." Read Psalm 1.

In this Psalm the Lord Himself is telling us how we may be happy.

What does He say will delight the happy man?

To what does He compare him?

To what does He liken the ungodly man?

What does He say in the last verse about the way of the righteous and the way of the ungodly?

This means that the Lord can always be with us when we do right, but that when we do wrong, He cannot keep us safe.

