
=== Senior

Psalm 1 is one to which the Seniors should pay particular attention. Center the lesson around the warning in the first verse, and stress the fact that this warning is given us plainly by the Lord Himself in the form most likely to reach through our thought to our will.

Music is primarily an expression of the emotions. We often sing without using or even thinking of words, and we find satisfaction in humming or whistling. But when we do sing words, they impress us more and remain in our minds longer than if they were merely spoken. This is because our emotions are reached by music. So, although we may regularly read the Psalms, it is even better to sing them and we should make ourselves familiar with the rules of chanting so that we may have this satisfaction. The Psalms were intended for singing. David, through whom many of them were written, was a skilled musician. The Psalms were a regular part of the temple worship and certain families among the Levites were trained for singing them and for their accompaniment on various musical instruments. Read 1 Chronicles 15:16-22.

But, as we learn from David's "last words," David did not compose the words of the Psalms: they were put in his mouth by the Lord. Of the ten books which we find in our Bible between 2 Kings and Isaiah, only the book of Psalms has an inner sense. The ancient Hebrews placed all ten of these books, as well as the books of Ruth, Lamentations, and Daniel, in a third group, called the Kethubim or Sacred Writings, considered to be of a less degree of inspiration than the Law and the Prophets. Our New Church "canon" of Scripture is the same as the Hebrew canon with the addition of the Psalms, Lamentations, and Daniel. Our test is whether a book has an internal sense. In the case of the Psalms, the Lord Himself in Luke 24:44 tells us that they, together with the law and the prophets, treat of Him. Several Psalms even in their letter are prophetic of the Lord's life. Read Psalm 22:18.

In the Psalms we are taught plainly by the Lord what our relation to Him is, how we should recognize the weakness of our own natures, and how we should see His wisdom and power in all creation and in every experience of life, and look to Him constantly for guidance and strength.

The first Psalm sets our pattern for life. If we would be blessed, or happy, we must delight in the law of the Lord, and read and meditate upon the Word daily. Only when we do so can the Lord be always with us and prosper our way. The godly man is like a strong, fruitful tree, which can weather any storm. The ungodly man is "like the chaff which the wind driveth away." The promise of the Lord is sure.

But in the spirit of the familiar command, "Cease to do evil; learn to do well," the Psalm begins by telling us the things we must avoid if we would be happy. This is where we must all begin, and you who are just on the brink of your independent adult lives should think very seriously of the three prohibitions in verse 1. Notice the three positions involved: walking, standing, and sitting. You might picture it in this way: Suppose you meet on the street someone who is perhaps popular and attractive but whom you know to be a worldly and selfish person, with no interest in religion and no fixed good principles. You know he is a person with whom it can do you only harm to associate, but he invites you to walk along with him and, instead of refusing politely and going in the opposite direction, you go with him, listening to his worldly conversation. You reach his home and he invites you in. Instead of parting from him immediately, you stand there in a discussion with him. Finally you go into his house and sit down with him, committed to his companionship. Now for the person in the picture substitute any thought or suggestion which you know to be contrary to the principles of love to the Lord and the neighbor, and follow the story through, and you will understand what the first Psalm is really saying to you. One of the older poets expressed this temptation in these words: "First endure, then pity, then embrace."*

[* Alexander Pope (1688-1744), "Essay on Man," Epistle 2, line 217. The verse from which this line is taken reads: Vice is a monster of so frightful mien, As to be hated needs but to be seen;
Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace.
-Editor]

One of the writers of the New Church, John Bigelow (1817-1911), was the author of a book which he called Resist Beginnings. It is a useful phrase to keep in mind, for one of our most common tendencies is to think we are strong enough to go a little way on a forbidden path and turn back before we become deeply involved. We need to study the Psalms to remind ourselves how weak we really are. Trusting in self instead of in the Lord is always a dangerous business.

