
=== Adult

There are many interesting points of discussion here. The adult can appreciate many of them from experiences of his own, and the younger members of the class will get help from hearing the older ones admit some of their earlier difficulties. Always, in discussions, have these younger members in mind. One of the troubles young adults have is that they so seldom feel free to talk about their inner feelings with anyone who can really help them. They are afraid of being smiled at and treated as children, and unfortunately this sometimes happens.

---
The story of the return of Moses to Egypt, the convincing of Pharaoh by means of the ten plagues, the first Passover feast, the appearance of the pillar of cloud and fire, the pursuit by the Egyptians, and the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea are familiar to all of us. It is enough for the purpose of this lesson that we recognize that they picture the first understanding of the spiritual destruction which results from a merely worldly life, the first determination to break the chains of worldliness and selfishness and to set forth under the leadership of the teachings of the Word upon a new course of reformation which will eventually lead to a heavenly character, and the first temptation to give up and turn back.

Our lesson for today opens with the song of triumph sung by the Israelites after they had safely reached the eastern shore of the Red Sea and had seen the pursuing Egyptians swallowed up in the returning waters. When we realize that we have miraculously passed safely through a temptation which at first appeared an impossible barrier to our progress, we do right to give thanks to the Lord through whose power the victory has been given us. In the Word song and music in general represent the expression of emotions. Music corresponds to the affections, and both expresses and arouses them. Different kinds of musical instruments correspond to different kinds of affections. In general, wind instruments correspond to affections for goodness and stringed instruments to affections for truth. The timbrel, which Miriam used, is a type of tambourine. Swedenborg says of it (@AC 8337): "As regards the timbrel specifically, it corresponds to spiritual good, that is, to the good of truth. The reason is that the timbrel is not a stringed instrument, neither is it a wind instrument, but as it is made with a skin, it is as it were a continuous stringed instrument, and moreover its sound is graver and deeper than is the sound of stringed instruments." Then he quotes several passages in the Word in which the timbrel is mentioned. The "good of truth" is the good which comes into our lives as a result of experience in the practice of particular truths — in this case the truth that if we obey the Word, the Lord has power to save us.

Being heartened by their miraculous escape, the Israelites no doubt turned toward the wilderness with confidence, expecting a short and triumphant journey: but they were soon disillusioned. The wilderness is called the "wilderness of Shur" — the same wilderness into which Hagar fled when Sarai was angry with her (Genesis 16:7). Swedenborg says of Shur, "'Shur' denotes the memory-knowledges of the church which have not yet attained to life, thus such things as must attain to life through temptations, for spiritual life is acquired through temptations (which are spiritual combats, or combats against evils and falsities) and through victories in these combats." (@AC 8346) We all have many such "memory-knowledges of the church" which we have not made living through use against our evils.

Throughout the wilderness journey the children of Israel were led by the pillar of cloud and fire. Exodus 13:21 says: "And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud, to lead them the way: and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light; to go by day and night." Swedenborg tells us that this signifies the continuous presence of the Lord. When we are in a state of enlightenment — by day — the Lord tempers His presence to our need: many times in the Word He is said to come "in the clouds," and we are told that clouds represent the letter of the Word which is according to our understanding and yet permits the light from the Lord to shine through as we are able to receive it. The pillar of fire by night pictures the fact that when we are in a state of obscurity, the Lord leads us by good (@AC 8105-8110). The Israelites were told to follow wherever the pillar led them, to stop when it stopped and remain there as long as it stood still, and when it moved on — whether it was day or night — to break camp and follow it. We seem to lead ourselves, but we know that our plans are often cut short or diverted by unexpected obstacles, and also that often the way opens before us when we least expect it. The Lord permits such experiences to come to us as are most likely to lead us to see and to correct our faults and weaknesses and to develop the particular abilities and qualities which will make us most helpful to others and so increase our spiritual worth.

When like the Israelites we have conquered some temptation and are feeling most confident, we often need the type of experience through which they passed after they had crossed the Red Sea. "They went three days in the wilderness, and found no water. And when they came to Marah, they could not drink the waters of Marah, for they were bitter." Our first thought when we begin the period of reformation is likely to be that the decision itself has changed us and that since we have decided that we want to lead a good life, we shall instinctively know what is good: that is, that what we want to do thenceforth will necessarily be good.

This is not the case, however. All our old habits and desires persist, and we have to learn a whole new way of life and practice it patiently until it actually replaces the old in our affections and thoughts. This is a long, slow process. We find at once that we do not know what is really right. This is the three days' journey without finding water. Then when the truth does present itself to us, it is not pleasant to us. It cuts across our natural desires. This is the bitter water of Marah. The tree (Swedenborg translates it "a piece of wood") which the Lord showed Moses is a symbol of good. Nothing can make truth sweet except the entrance of good into the will.

It is at this point (verses 25 and 26) that the Lord solemnly points out to Moses and the people that obedience to the truth is essential for their new life, but also that if they will obey, they will suffer none of the misfortunes which they had so recently witnessed among the Egyptians. Even in the beginning of our journey, it is well that we should realize that although the new life may not prove to be easy, it will be free from all the unhappiness and frustration which worldliness and selfishness inevitably produce.

Then the Lord gives the people a taste of the happiness and peace which the new life will surely bring: "And they came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters." "By the 'twelve springs of waters' are signified truths in all abundance" (@AC 8368). " ... seventy palm trees. That this signifies the goods of truth in like manner, that is, in all abundance, is evident from the signification of 'seventy,' as being all things in the complex, in like manner as 'twelve': and from the signification of 'palm-trees,' as being the goods of the spiritual church, which are the goods of truth" (@AC 8369). Have we not all from time to time, after we have passed through some difficult situation in which we tried sincerely to do right, experienced this sudden relief, refreshment, and new understanding? Because we have found the Lord's way the right way and His guidance adequate to our needs, our whole outlook is readjusted and we can go on with new courage and strength. Knowledge is truth in the memory: intelligence is the rational understanding of this truth; but wisdom is the certainty of the truth which comes only from having used and proved it in life.

