
=== Intermediate

The lesson to impress at this age is that the right way is sometimes hard, but that the Lord is always with us to help us, and that if we obey the commandments, we shall be saved from much disappointment and unhappiness and will eventually come into greater joy than the worldly life can know. The correspondence of the journey can be given in some detail.

---
You remember from the story of Abraham that the land of Egypt pictures "memory-knowledges." Egypt was the storehouse of the ancient world. They have little rain there, but every year the Nile River overflows its banks and covers the whole valley with a layer of fresh soil brought down from the mountains. Then for the rest of the year the people irrigate the valley from the river; so it is very unusual for a drought or famine to affect Egypt. When Pharaoh brought Joseph out of prison and made him ruler over his land, one of the things he did — because of the interpretation of Pharaoh's dream — was to prepare for a drought and a famine that were to come. We have to "go down into Egypt" — to seek new knowledge — every time we feel such a need, but this knowledge is meant to be brought back to our Holy Land of service to the Lord. Moses was to lead his people back.

This was not an easy task. He had to convince his people that the Lord had really sent him and that they should follow him, and he had to convince Pharaoh by means of the ten plagues that the Hebrews must be let go. The children of Israel, according to the Lord's direction, borrowed gold and silver and jewels from their Egyptian neighbors, celebrated the Passover feast, and started on their journey, led by the Lord by means of a pillar of cloud by day which became a pillar of fire by night. When they came to the Red Sea, they found that Pharaoh had changed his mind and was pursuing them; but the Lord parted the waters and let them pass through on dry ground, and then brought the waters together again and drowned their pursuers.

Our lesson today begins with the song of triumph which Moses sang, giving praise and thanksgiving to the Lord for saving them. And then in verses 20 and 21 we read that Moses' sister Miriam, and all the other women, sang a similar song of triumph. This is the first time that we read of singing in the Bible. The song was, of course, in the Hebrew language, and the music was in the form of a chant, something like the chants we sometimes sing in church. Indeed this is the only way in which words of the Bible can be sung without changing them a great deal. Such chants were natural to the Jews, and they are still a part of worship in Jewish synagogues. Singing is a natural form of expression for our feelings; so it corresponds to such expression. We find many songs in the Bible. All of the Psalms are songs. The ancient Hebrews were famous for them. Read Psalm 137.

After these songs of praise (which represent our immediate feeling of thanksgiving to the Lord when we have been delivered from some great danger or temptation) the children of Israel started on their journey through the wilderness. Their leaving Egypt to go back to the Holy Land pictures a time when we see that our life has been wrong and we determine to begin a new life. Many things make this hard to do. We never decide to do right without being immediately tempted to do wrong; this is represented by coming to the Red Sea and finding that the Egyptians are following. The same old selfish thoughts try to catch up with us. Then, if we have courage enough to overcome this first temptation — to cross the Red Sea — we find that a new kind of temptation is waiting for us.

We read that "they went out into the wilderness of Shur: and they went three days in the wilderness, and found no water." When we turn our backs on our old bad habits, we hardly know at first how to live any other kind of life. You know that water corresponds to truth. A wilderness is a place which is not cultivated and where few people have made homes for themselves. Swedenborg tells us that it corresponds to an "obscure state." That means a state of mind in which we do not see our way clearly: we have to "feel" our way, as we say. In such a state we need truth very much and do not seem able to find it. Moses himself was in the same state as the rest of the people. All they could do was to follow the pillar of cloud and fire. For us this pillar represents the letter or literal sense of the Word. Even before we really come to the point when we see clearly what we ought to do and what life is all about, we know enough of the commandments and of the teachings of the Lord when He was in the world to lead us in the right direction. In the Bible the letter of the Word is often described by the term "clouds"; you can see why if you think a little. Clouds hide the sun; yet the sun is there shining through them; also, rain which we need so regularly falls from the clouds. So the letter of the Word sometimes hides the full understanding of the Lord's love and wisdom (the sun); yet these are within it shining through, and the letter of the Word gives us the truth day by day as we need it.

Finally the children of Israel came to a place they called Marah because they could not at first drink the bitter water which they found there. Marah means "bitter." And Moses "cried unto the Lord; and the Lord shewed him a tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made sweet." Wood is one of the many symbols of goodness in the Word. Casting the wood of the tree into the water is to put good or the love of doing good into the truths we learn, and this always makes them pleasant. Often we find that something the Word tells us we ought to do is not just what we should like to do; the water is bitter. But if we think about how much we owe to the Lord and how willing we ought to be to do what He tells us is right, we shall soon find it easy and pleasant to obey. It is only selfishness which makes truth seem bitter.

Then the cloud led the people on further: "And they came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters." Have you ever resisted some temptation which presented itself to you perhaps in school or on the playground, and gone home feeling that maybe you had been foolish and cheated yourself out of a lot of fun, and then suddenly found that being able to face your mother and father without anything bothering your conscience made you feel so free and happy that it was worth a good deal more than the temporary fun would have been? This happy, satisfied state is pictured by the twelve springs and seventy palm trees. Springs of water picture truth; palm trees are symbols of good — the kind of good which comes from recognizing that the Lord's saving power was on your side helping you to resist temptation. When you know that you have done right, you feel "good." When we resist temptation and refuse to do wrong, the Lord always gives us this happy feeling and lets us enjoy it for a little while before we go on to a new temptation.

