
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
On a map point out that a much shorter way from Egypt to the Holy Land would have been along the shore of the Mediterranean; have them read Exodus 13:17-19 to see why the people were not led that way. Read also to them Exodus 12:37-38 to give them the impression of the multitude. Then continue with the lesson, following their notes.

---
When the children of Israel left Egypt, the Lord led them by means of a pillar of cloud which at night became a pillar of fire. They were to follow it wherever it led them and to stop wherever it stopped. It led them first to a certain point on the shore of the Red Sea. By the time they got there, Pharaoh had changed his mind and sent an army to pursue them and bring them back. But the Lord parted the waters of the Red Sea before them. The Israelites crossed safely, but when Pharaoh's army followed, the waters closed over them and they were drowned.

Our lesson for today begins with the song of praise and thanksgiving which Moses and his people sang after their enemies had been destroyed. We need to remember that in all this rejoicing over enemies, the Bible is really speaking of the enemies of our souls, our wrong feelings and thoughts which we should be fighting all the time. Read Matthew 5:43-48 to see what the Lord tells us about how we should look upon people who seem to be our enemies. He does not want us to rejoice at anyone's misfortunes. But when He has helped us to put away our wrong thoughts and feelings, we should rejoice and thank Him for the victory.

Who besides Moses sang a song of triumph?

Miriam was the sister of Moses and Aaron. A timbrel is something like a tambourine. After these songs of triumph they started on their journey.

How far did they go before they found water?

What was the matter with the water when they found it?

What did they name the place?

How did the Lord tell Moses to make the water sweet?

Water symbolizes truth. When you have been doing something wrong and someone tells you the truth about yourself, do you find the truth sweet? Can you think what can make it sweet?

The children of Israel were starting on a new life. They had had a hard time in Egypt, but they had always had enough to eat and drink and a home to sleep in at night. Now they were out in the wilderness, sleeping in tents and not really knowing where their next meal was to come from. They often thought it might have been better to have stayed in Egypt. It is just the same when we start out to try to live as the Lord wants us to live instead of just pleasing ourselves. At first we miss some of the kinds of fun we had in being selfish and we find the new life "dry." We see that it is the right way to live, but we don't enjoy it. But if we will keep on trying, reminding ourselves that we want to please the Lord, presently we shall begin to enjoy our new ways of thinking and feeling. This desire to please the Lord, to be truly good, is the "tree" which Moses was told to put into the water. Anything we do from love for others brings us happiness.

What was the next place to which they came?

What did they find there?

In all desert regions there are places like this, which are called oases. Caravans which have to cross the desert are planned so that they go from one oasis to another, so that they can stop and rest in the shade of palm trees, gather dates for their supplies, and replenish their water. As we travel through life, we shall have many long, hard places to go through, but we know that the Lord will surely give us times of great happiness and peace which make us know that we are on the right road and help us to gather courage and strength to go on. These are the oases in our life journey. And this is what Elim pictures. The Lord kept the children of Israel at Elim for about a month, by means of the pillar of cloud and fire. Then He saw that they were rested and refreshed and ready to move on again.

