
=== Senior

All the stories of this period are applicable to the life of young people of this age. They see the worldly life all about them and constantly feel its temptations. They know it is not easy to be good, but often young people are urged to take the step of "commitment to Christ" without being shown what to expect or how to meet the tests that will come to them. The wilderness journey in its internal sense is the part of the Bible which most clearly meets just this need.

---
We all know the story of how Moses, in the power given him by the Lord at the burning bush, went back to Egypt, persuaded his people to accept him as their leader, and (by means of the ten plagues) finally convinced Pharaoh that it would be wise to let the Hebrews go back to their own land. We know the story of the first Passover, and of the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea.

So long as the natural and worldly desires and thoughts in us rule over our spiritual inclinations and thoughts, we cannot be in a healthy and happy spiritual state. The ten plagues picture the progressive deterioration of such a life until finally the person is not capable of producing any genuine good affection or any true thought which can live and grow — the tenth plague was the slaying of the firstborn of everything in the land. When a person realizes that he has fallen into this state and determines to break away, the Lord is always there providing leadership and guidance and protection for his new way of life. But the change is not an easy one. Old habits soon try to catch up with us, as Pharaoh's armies pursued the children of Israel. At the Red Sea, they were right behind. The Red Sea pictures the first great temptation to stop and turn back. You remember that the Lord told Moses to lift up his rod over the sea, and the waters rolled back and allowed the people to pass through on dry ground. Moses pictures the letter of the law: and his rod, the power which is in that letter when it is obeyed. When temptation comes, we should repeat to ourselves one of the commandments which applies to the particular temptation we are facing. and then go straight forward in the power of the truth. The way will open before us, the enemy will be swallowed up behind us, and we shall find ourselves safe on the other side.

This is the point at which our lesson for today takes up the story. Our chapter opens with the song of triumph sung by Moses and the children of Israel, and by Miriam (the sister of Moses and Aaron) and the other women, as they stood on the eastern shore of the Red Sea and looked back at the waters rolling over the enemy. In the literal sense such a triumphal song may seem cruel, but if we think of the Egyptians as representing worldly and selfish desires and false ideas which have been threatening our spiritual growth, we realize that rejoicing and thanksgiving are right and proper. We might note that this is the first of the many songs which we find in the Bible. Singing is a natural expression of the feelings. Even those of us who do not have particularly good voices are apt to break into singing when we are happy. Often we make up the tune as we go along, without stopping to think how surprising it is that we can. The songs of the Hebrews were chants made up in this way, the melody being composed spontaneously as the words were inspired into their minds. Some very ancient ones are still used in synagogues today. The reason why in the New Church we sometimes sing chants is that the Bible words cannot be sung in any other way without changing them a great deal: and our worship should, so far as possible, be expressed in the words of the Bible because they are what connect us with the Lord and the heavens.

After this song of praise, the people turned toward the wilderness and resumed their journey. We can imagine that, after their first experience with the Lord's saving power, they started full of courage and hope. They were led, as they were to be led for the next forty years, by the pillar of cloud and fire. This again pictures the letter of the Word, which will lead us safely even though we do not at first "see through" it. You who are starting out on life's journey are, like the Israelites, looking forward with high hopes, and you mean to live good and useful lives and to accomplish a great deal in them. You may know that if you obey the teachings of the Word, if you follow the pillar of cloud and fire, you will surely reach the Holy Land. The story of the Israelites teaches this plainly. But it teaches other things which you also need to know. The way will not be short or easy. Many things will happen to you which you cannot possibly foresee now. You will have times of hardship and disappointment: you will have battles to fight: you will not always measure up to what you know you want to be, and then you will suffer. Sometimes your life will seem to be at a standstill — the children of Israel had to stop whenever the pillar of cloud and fire stopped, and stay encamped there until it moved on. But you may be quite sure that each of these difficulties will be something you particularly need, and that if you look to the Lord for help, He will bring you safely through them, and you will be all the stronger for them.

The first thing we have to find out is that we do not know as much as we think we know. The Israelites went three days' journey into the wilderness "and found no water." In the new way we have undertaken, there are no familiar landmarks and no well—marked road. It seems at first a wilderness, and a dry wilderness. We have left behind our satisfaction with the water of natural knowledge, and have not learned how to find and enjoy spiritual knowledge. When we have tasted this state to the full (the three days' journey) the Lord brings us to the truth we need: but often we do not like it very well. We find the truth bitter when it is against our natural inclinations. The tree, or wood, which Moses was told to cast into the water, represents a genuine desire for a good life. This desire can make truth sweet to us. We have an immediate reward, if we are faithful to the truth. The people came next to Elim "where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees." The palm tree corresponds to good — the good of the wisdom which comes from the experiencing of the saving power of the Lord. All through life a good person has these experiences of quiet happiness which serve to strengthen his good resolutions and to give him courage to continue his journey. So these first two steps in the journey of the Israelites through the wilderness have very deep and necessary lessons for you as you start your own life journey. The wilderness journey as a whole is a picture of the period of "reformation" — the period, long or short, when we are of our own accord trying to make our daily lives right according to the teaching of the Word.

