
=== Intermediate

The important lesson for this class is the meaning of being born again of water and the Spirit. Other lessons are also suggested below.

Nicodemus came to the Lord by night. This was, in the literal sense, undoubtedly because open association with the Lord would have brought upon him ridicule and censure from the other "rulers" with whom he constantly associated. For a "ruler of the Jews" was a member of the Sanhedrin, the supreme council, composed of seventy priests and lawyers. In the spiritual sense the night pictures the ignorance of his mind with regard to spiritual truth.

That Nicodemus was a thoughtful man we know because he did not agree with the vast majority of his fellows, but saw that the power manifested in the Lord must come from God. That he was a good man we know because he came to the Lord to ask the way of life, and also because he remained steadfast in his belief in the face of overwhelming opposition. Read John 7:40-53 and 19:39. This took real courage. At the time of our lesson he had not yet developed this courage. The Lord did not at once rebuke Nicodemus for coming to Him secretly, but in verse 21, after His preliminary instruction, He showed him the right course. The Lord knows all our weaknesses and makes allowance for them, but this should not lead us to excuse ourselves.

The Lord also knows what is in our hearts without our telling Him. He saw immediately just what was the question which was in the mind of Nicodemus, and went at once to the heart of the answer. It was essentially the same answer which He gave to others and which He gives to all who look to Him for the way. To be born again, to be born of water and of the Spirit, is another injunction to repent and follow the teachings of the Lord's truth. You remember that the wilderness journey of the Israelites represented the period of reformation — the putting in order of our outward conduct — and that John's baptism with water also represents this. Now read again John 1:33. Regeneration — the bringing of our inner thoughts and feelings into the Lord's order, which the conquest of the Holy Land represented — is the baptism with the Holy Ghost or Holy Spirit. Regeneration means rebirth.

The same lesson is taught in verses 14 and 15. The serpent pictures the sense life and brass is the symbol of good on the external plane. The brazen serpent which Moses was commanded to raise up on a pole in the wilderness (Numbers 21:5-9) pictures the right use of the sense life, its use to promote the spiritual life. This was exactly the use which the Lord made of the finite humanity which He assumed when He was born into the world. So this reference to the brazen serpent links the Lord's teaching concerning the second birth, or regeneration, with the statement which follows about His purpose in coming into the world. He came as the truth — the Son - to give the world the light by which men might safely walk. The world had lost its way. The Jews alone had the Word and they had so obscured it by their traditions that even Nicodemus did not know what it really taught.

There is a very plain lesson for all of us in verses 19 to 21. When we are bent on having our own way, we do not want to hear the truth: we prefer to walk in darkness. When we really are trying to do right, we seek the truth, the light. In simple terms this means that whenever we find ourselves trying to conceal our real thoughts and feelings, it is time to examine ourselves carefully to see if our thoughts are true and our feelings kind. And whenever we find ourselves resentful of criticism and impatient of advice, it is time to ask ourselves if what we are doing is really right in the Lord's sight. We should always remember that our friends are also instruments of the Lord and that the Lord may be using them as means in His constant effort to help and save us. Read verses 16 and 17 of our chapter.

