
=== Notes for Parents

We are told in the first verse of our lesson that Nicodemus was a Pharisee and also that he was a "ruler" of the Jews. The latter term means that he was a member of the Sanhedrin, the high religious court, which had seventy members and was presided over by the high priest. This was the court by which the Lord was later tried and condemned. The Pharisees were a sect who prided themselves on their strict observance of all the religious rules, and we know that the Lord called them hypocrites. They opposed the Lord because His teaching undermined their selfish rule over the people.

Nicodemus showed intellectual independence in differing from the opinion of his fellows with regard to the Lord, and he evidently wanted to learn from Him but at the time of our story did not quite have the courage to come to the Lord openly. The Lord did not wait for Nicodemus to ask a question. He knows all that is in our hearts and minds. He knew that Nicodemus, like many who came to him, wanted most of all to know how to get to heaven. So He began immediately to show him that the worldly and selfish attitudes into which we are all born must be changed if we are to become citizens of the kingdom of heaven.

John the Baptist had said, "I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance, but he that cometh after me ... shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire." The baptism with water represents reformation — the cleansing of our outward conduct by means of truth from the Word. The baptism with the Holy Ghost (the Holy Spirit) and with fire is the coming into our minds and hearts of the Lord's truth and unselfish love as we try to drive out false thoughts and evil desires. This is regeneration.

Two other very important things the Lord told Nicodemus. One was that He had come into the world not to condemn people but to save them. People who try to bring others to their particular brand of religion by inspiring them with fear of the Lord's judgment should study this verse. The Lord never comes to condemn. If we are condemned, it is by our own choice of self and the world, for selfishness and worldliness are the loves which make hell. There is a kind of "fear of the Lord" which is right and good, but it is not fear of punishment. It is the fear of doing anything against the one who loves us so much.

The other lesson is one which Nicodemus needed and which we all often need. It is found in verses 19 to 21. Whenever we try to cover up our real thoughts and feelings, there is a warning signal. Either our thoughts and feelings are not what they should be, or we are not brave enough to speak the truth openly.

For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.

But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.

