
=== Primary

First discuss the scribes and Pharisees and the reason for their attitude toward the Lord. Then take up Nicodemus and do what you can with the Lord's instruction to him. The younger children will be more interested in the reason why he came to the Lord by night than in what the Lord told him. You may be able to show them that it is not always the things we see which are most powerful and most important. Verse 8 will help here.

When the Lord came into the world, the most respected among the people were the Pharisees. They were a group who considered themselves more religious than others. They had made up all sorts of rules which were not in the Scriptures and had made the people think that only those who kept all these rules were good. Most of the people did not have the Scriptures themselves and so did not know that the rules of the Pharisees were not part of the law which came from God.

The Lord did not keep the rules of the Pharisees, and He showed the people that the Pharisees were only pretending to be better than other people because they liked to be admired and obeyed. Naturally this made the Pharisees hate the Lord. They tried in every possible way to destroy the people's belief in Him. They could not deny His power to do miracles, but they said His power came from the devil.

But even among the Pharisees there were some men who wanted to do what was right.

One of these was the man in our lesson for today. What was his name?

He was also a "ruler" of the Jews.

That meant a member of the great council of seventy which ruled the religious affairs of the nation.

What made Nicodemus believe in the Lord?

He was not quite brave enough to come to Him openly. When did he come to the Lord?

What was the first thing the Lord told him? Nicodemus could not understand this.

How did the Lord tell him a man must be born in order to enter the kingdom of heaven?

This means that we must learn to think about our souls instead of just about our bodies.

We cannot see our souls any more than we can see the wind. But our souls are what make our bodies do all that they do. So our souls are much more important than our bodies.

If our souls are to be healthy, we must learn about the Lord and what He wants us to do.

This was why the Lord came into the world.

He did not come to make life hard for us, but to teach us how to live so that we may be happy both here and in heaven.

