
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: Who were the (1) scribes, and (2) Pharisees? (1) men who copied the Scriptures, (2) a strict religious sect

Junior: What had they done to the Scriptures? added many of their own ideas

Junior: What did the Lord call them? hypocrites

Junior: Why were they opposed to the Lord? He exposed their hypocrisy

Primary: What is the name of the man in our lesson for today? Nicodemus

Junior: What was he besides being a Pharisee? a ruler (member of Sanhedrin)

Primary: Why did he come to the Lord by night? afraid of ridicule

Junior: Why did he believe in the Lord? miracles

Junior: What did the Lord see he wanted to ask? way to heaven

Primary: What did the Lord tell him? you must be born again

Intermediate: What did the Lord mean by being "born again"? repent, follow His teachings

Junior: What did the Lord say about the brazen serpent in the wilderness? ... so must Son of man be lifted up

Junior: Why did the Lord say He came into the world? to save it

Junior: Why does He say some people are condemned? will not believe

Junior: Why should we stop to think every time we find ourselves trying to cover up our thoughts or feelings or actions? probably means we just want our own way

Intermediate: What does it mean to be "born of water"? outer life cleansed

Senior: What does it mean to be "born of the Spirit"? inner life purified

Senior: How is this related to the work of (1) John the Baptist, and (2) the Lord? (1) cleansing outer life (2) purifying thoughts, replacing self-love with love of the Lord and the neighbor

== THE LORD AT JACOB'S WELL — John 4:1-42

This story ties in with several of our earlier lessons, especially the deaths of Jacob and Joseph and the lesson on the conquest of Israel by Assyria. The teachers should read for background Genesis 33:18-20; 48:21-22; 50:24-26; Exodus 13:19; Joshua 24:32; and 2 Kings 17:24-41. These links connecting our chapter with the Old Testament story should be touched on in all classes but not at such length as to leave insufficient time to develop the lesson of the chapter.

