
=== Junior

We have centered the lesson for this age group on John 12:24 as an explanation of the nature and purpose of the Lord's life on earth and the reason for His death, with a secondary application to our own lives. Be sure the class looks up and reads the prophecies of the Advent, as suggested in their notes, and as each one is read, point out that it is God Himself who is promised.

Since our lessons for this Sunday and next are about the last week of the Lord's life on earth, let us make sure that we know the general facts concerning that life up to this point.

Where was the Lord born?

What two groups of people were told of His birth?

Where was He taken to save Him from the wrath of Herod? 

Where did He grow up?

Where did He go when He was twelve years old, and why? 

How old was He when He began His ministry?

Who was sent to prepare the people to receive Him?

Where did He make His home during His ministry?

Who was the Lord Jesus Christ?

What does the first chapter of John say about Him? 

What did He tell the woman of Samaria about Himself?

What kind of people believed in Him?

Why did the scribes and Pharisees hate Him?

We are all familiar with the Palm Sunday story, which is told in all four Gospels. We know that today we commemorate the Lord's entry into Jerusalem at the beginning of the last week of His earthly life.

What kind of animal did He ride?

How did the people receive Him? What did they carry in their hands? What did they shout?

Hosanna means "save now." All those people who greeted the Lord in this way on Palm Sunday were acknowledging with their minds and lips that Jesus was the promised Messiah or Christ come to be their king and savior. Look up and read some of the things their prophets had told them about Him: Isaiah 9:6, 25:9; Jeremiah 23:6; Micah 5:2; Malachi 3:1. If they accepted Him, they should have known that He was God Himself. But even these people who accepted Him were most of them really thinking of themselves. They wanted to be saved from their worldly troubles rather than from their sins. They were expecting a king who would overthrow the power of Rome and make them the leading nation in the world. We say we know better. But we are often very much like the people who hailed the Lord as their king on Palm Sunday and crucified Him before the week was over. We call ourselves Christians, but what we really expect the Lord to save us from is suffering in this world; and when suffering comes to us or disappointment of any kind, we sometimes blame the Lord and say, "What is the use of worshiping the Lord if He won't do for me what I want Him to do?" Whenever we do this it shows that we really want to rule God — not to let God rule us.

The Lord knew all that was in the hearts and minds of the people, and He knew — as He always knows — the future. He knew when He rode into Jerusalem in triumph on Palm Sunday that He would be crucified the next Friday. The Gospel of John gives us more of His teaching on this occasion than the other Gospels do. Read carefully John 12:23-33.

John 12:24 gives us in one little parable the reason why the Lord allowed Himself to be crucified. The important part of a grain of wheat is the inner kernel, and the outer parts of the seed are of value only because they protect, nourish, and foster the living wheat germ within. They are necessary for these purposes until the germ has attained its full development. Then they have to be put off, as they are when the seed is planted in the ground. In any person the living kernel is the soul, and the physical body is only the outer husk. So we all have to pass through death and put off that outer husk. Our life in this world is the time when we are developing the special kind of kernel we want to be. While we are here, we are choosing whether we want to be good and useful plants or weeds and poisonous plants. The kernel cannot be changed after the husk is put off.

The Lord's soul was God Himself. While He was on earth, He was making Himself a divine human nature by choosing always to do right in spite of all the temptations which came to Him from day to day. When this divine human was fully formed, He had to put off the outer husk by passing through physical death just as we do. As long as He was seen only in the physical body He had taken on through Mary, people could form only imperfect ideas of what was within. What was accomplished by His death is our lesson for Easter Sunday.

