
=== Notes for Parents

As we enter upon the week which in the church is called Holy Week, and read the story of the Lord's triumphal entry into Jerusalem on the first Palm Sunday, two questions naturally arise in our minds: (1) How could that great crowd of people welcome the Lord on Sunday and crucify Him on Friday? and (2) Why did the Lord allow His enemies to crucify Him? The Lord Himself answers both these questions for us in this chapter from the Gospel of John.

The people who welcomed Him did so because they had heard of His miracles, especially of His raising Lazarus from the dead. They — like many people today — thought of death as the ultimate misfortune, because their minds were concerned only with their health and prosperity in this world. They had no thought of the promised Messiah except as one who would come as an earthly king to overthrow the power of Rome and make their nation great once more. Even the Lord's closest disciples, we are told, contended among themselves which of them should be greatest, and when the Lord was crucified, they all "forsook him and fled." Our chapter tells us that even those leaders who believed the Lord's claim were afraid to support Him lest they should be put out of the synagogue, "For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God." This is the reason why the people so soon turned against the Lord, and it is the reason for moral and spiritual cowardice in all times.

The answer to our second question grows out of this answer to the first. The kingdom of heaven is made up of people who love the Lord and the neighbor instead of just themselves. "He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world, shall keep it unto life eternal." This was the lesson which the Lord came to teach us. It is not what happens to our bodies that is important, but what is going on in our souls. The Lord took on from Mary a human nature like ours, in which He could feel all our temptations. Even to the end of His life in the world He had to fight this fundamental temptation to think of self first. We see this in our chapter when He says: "Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour." He always conquered the temptation, and in conquering set us an example and showed us how to conquer it. He had to pass through death to show us that death is only a necessary incident in our continuing life. He had to put off the physical body so that the divine man within might be seen. He had to let His enemies do their worst to teach us that evil has no real or lasting power over goodness. As Psalm 118:6 puts it, "The Lord is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?"

To be a Christian is to take the Lord Jesus Christ as our king, to learn His teachings and obey them, to set Him up as our ideal and hold His example steadily before us day by day. "And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me." "If any man serve me, let him follow me: and where I am, there shall also my servant be."

