
=== Senior

The two questions suggested in the first paragraph below form a good basis for the development of the lesson, since the young people will have to face these questions in their own minds and from the lips of others.

Today is Palm Sunday, the beginning of the week which the Christian Church calls "Holy Week" because it commemorates the last week of the Lord's earthly life. The week begins with His entry into Jerusalem as the "King of Israel" and ends in His resurrection, but in between lies the dark episode of His rejection, condemnation, and crucifixion. Our Palm Sunday lesson, therefore, should answer the questions which this contrast naturally raises in our minds: How could the people hail the Lord as king on Sunday and shout for His crucifixion the next Friday? and, Why did the Lord permit Himself to be put to death by His enemies?

In this chapter of the Gospel of John both these questions are answered for us by the Lord Himself. We should note first that the Lord rode into Jerusalem on a young donkey to signify His complete subjugation of the natural reason, which judges according to the appearance in the world, and that the palm branches that the people carried signify divine truth as it is found in the sense of the letter of the Word.

Because of the Lord's reported miracles the people were prepared to believe that Jesus was the promised Messiah, and when they saw Him riding on a donkey's colt, in fulfillment of the prophecy in Zechariah 9:9, they acclaimed Him. But their idea of the Messiah, based on their strictly literal understanding of Scripture, was of an earthly king who would exalt their nation once more to world power. As John 12:40 tells us, "He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them." Their question in John 12:34 shows their lack of thought of any other life than that in this world. Even many who were disposed to listen to the Lord's teaching were afraid to support Him openly "lest they should be put out of the synagogue: For they loved the praise of men, more than the praise of God" (John 12:42 and 43). We should keep this verse in mind, for we often lack the courage to stand up for what we know to be right. There is nothing praiseworthy about spiritual cowardice.

The two classes of people — those who did not want to believe and those who believed but were afraid to stand against the others - are described in John 12:29 by those who, hearing the voice from heaven attest the divinity of the Lord, said, "it thundered," and those who said, "An angel spake to him." In the same way, our minds either refuse or welcome spiritual truth.

The reason the Lord permitted Himself to be put to death by His enemies is clearly stated in John 12:23-28. His death on the cross was foreseen from the beginning and recognized as necessary to His purpose: "for this cause came I unto this hour." His enemies had to be allowed to do their worst that we might see that evil has no real power over goodness. Men had to be shown that the death of the body is only a necessary step in the endless life of the soul, and that the real power is in the soul. The Lord does not condemn the evil; they condemn themselves. If we reject the Lord's teaching, we reject God Himself; and if we reject God, we condemn ourselves to walk in darkness not only in this world but after death to eternity.

We may think of the Lord's riding into Jerusalem on a young donkey as the symbolic embodiment of the teaching of the whole chapter. The Lord enters our lives as our king when we recognize that the soul is more important than the body and resolve steadily to obey the laws of the Lord at whatever cost in terms of comfort or pleasure or position in this world. To be a Christian means to be one who follows the teaching and example of Christ, and nothing in the teaching or example of the Lord gives us any excuse for worldliness or self-seeking. "If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be." "And I, if I be lifted up, will draw all men unto me." We may think that the verse which follows this one is a mere literal statement: "This he said, signifying what death he should die." But death in this verse does not mean merely the death of the body. The death He died was the death of all the selfish promptings of the assumed humanity. This is also what is meant for us in John 12:25.

