
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Discuss the necessity of the constant growth of our concept of the Lord and of our understanding and appreciation of the meaning of the details of the familiar Christmas stories. Use Isaiah 9:6 to point this up and Isaiah 9:7 to suggest the effect which this growing concept should have on our lives.

---
Looking back after nearly two thousand years we can see that the Lord's Advent changed the whole course of history. We all know that our calendar dates from the birth of Christ and that the Christian nations, in spite of their obvious shortcomings, are the progressive and dominant nations. The life of the Lord gave the world a new standard, a new ideal, without which spiritual life would have perished; for men, looking to themselves or to other men for wisdom, were becoming more and more confused, uncertain, and fearful. The only genuine truth in the world was in the Hebrew Scriptures, and the church of that day had so perverted these that they were no longer read with an open mind. The object of the lifelong search of Socrates was for the wise man. No man could be found who could point out the way of life.

This spiritual darkness was the night upon which the great light broke. The star which the Wise Men saw afar off and the "glory of the Lord" which shone round about the shepherds were the same light, the Lord coming into the world as the truth, "the way," "the light of the world," "a light to lighten the Gentiles," the only wise man, to whom men in all time to come could look for light and guidance. When we are little children, we love and cherish the picture of the holy babe in the manger with Mary and Joseph and the shepherds in adoration, but as we grow older every detail of this picture must be filled with deeper and deeper meaning. We begin to glimpse the tremendous significance of this seemingly obscure event which is celebrated all over the world on Christmas day, and to see that nothing less than the coming into the world of the Lord God Himself could so profoundly have affected the history of the world and the course of individual lives.

Then comes the question, "Why did so few recognize the Lord?"

This is answered for us many times in the Word. "For this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed" (Matthew 13:15); "And men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil" (John 3:19). Owls, which depend upon the darkness to help them surprise their prey, see in the dark and are blinded in the daytime. We can all refuse to see truths which we have not prepared ourselves to use, just as a child who has not studied his lesson or the lessons which went before it is not prepared to understand what the teacher is talking about. "God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved." His light would have destroyed eyes not prepared to receive it if He had not permitted the eyes to be closed. So His Advent was accomplished in a way which represented His accommodation of Himself to men, and only those who were prepared knew of it. But the light which was at first seen by so few grew and spread and continues to grow and spread throughout the whole world.

The Lord was born in Bethlehem, the birthplace of Benjamin as well as of David. Of Himself He said, "I am the bread of life." Bethlehem means "house of bread." To each of us, when we are children or in childhood states, the Lord comes in simple instruction as to how we may be good and useful, and the beautiful story in the letter of the Word of His coming as a humble babe in the manger at Bethlehem moves our hearts. But as we pass out of our childhood states, our knowledge of the Lord and our concept of Him must grow. We are all familiar with the general correspondence of the Christmas stories: the Wise Men, those who cherish and love the truths of spiritual living; and the shepherds, the simple in heart who love what is good and innocent. These are the two classes of people who are able to recognize the Lord: those who love and cherish the knowledge of Him which they have received through the Word from their parents and teachers, as the Wise Men cherished the prophecies which they had from the Ancient Word; and those who, in the absence of knowledge of the Lord, still are humble and loving, preserving their own good innocent affections in spite of the worldliness which surrounds them, as the shepherds watched their flocks by night.

There was no room for the Lord at the inns. An inn represents a "place of instruction." The church was the only place of instruction to which men could go who wanted to learn of the Lord, but it had so perverted the precious knowledge entrusted to it that the divine truth was altogether crowded out. So the Lord was laid in a humble manger, the feeding place of horses and cattle, the few humble minds and hearts which still found some instruction for life, and He was wrapped in swaddling clothes, which represent the first simple truths which clothe our early perceptions of the Lord (@AE 706[11]).

To many it seems strange that so few people acknowledged the Lord's birth when it was accompanied by signs and wonders and when the Hebrew nation had looked forward through all its history to this very event. But we must not think that the signs and wonders were visible to everyone, though many stories based on this assumption have been written. Verses 17 and 18 of our lesson gives us a suggestion here. They make it rather evident that others knew of the shepherds' vision only as the shepherds told of it and that, while they wondered at it, only Mary really thought much about it. Belief is a matter of the will. We do not believe unless we want to. Even the Lord never forces us to believe in Him, and when He came into the world, He came in such a way that only those recognized Him who really longed for His coming and so would worship and protect the child Jesus. These few were told, each in a way that would be most assuring to him: the Wise Men, who understood something of correspondences, saw a star; the simple shepherds had in common a beautiful and awe—inspiring vision and heard the actual announcement; Mary and Joseph, Zacharias and Elisabeth were told by an angel (and the doubting Zacharias was still further impressed by being struck dumb); and Simeon and Anna were taught by a perception within their own hearts when they saw the child. Most of the people who wanted no truth which might condemn them, neither saw nor heard.

It is much the same with people today. Swedenborg tells us that the angels never try to instruct men on earth. They know that the Lord has given men the Word and leaves them in freedom to receive or reject its teaching, and that this freedom must be preserved at all costs. Only evil spirits seek to speak to men.* But at the time of the Advent the angelic host was permitted to express in one great beautiful message the very sphere of heaven: "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace, good will toward men." The more accurate translation is "to men of good will." Love to God and love to the neighbor, afterward pointed out by the Lord Himself as the two great commandments, are the way to peace both for the individual and for the world. This is a message which we should ponder most deeply at Christmas time. The angel told the shepherds where to find the Lord. That is all the angels can do for us. If we are wise, we shall do as the shepherds did: go quickly to find the Lord in the manger of the letter of the Word: and we shall worship Him and tell others what we have found; and then we shall go back to our daily tasks "glorifying and praising God."

[*See, e.g., @HH 249. -Editor]

