
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of many of the details of the story can be given, and the class should be encouraged to begin to think more deeply about the meaning of Christmas to us and to the world.

---
The whole of the Old Testament looks forward to the coming of the Lord into the world. The child that is promised in the prophecy in Isaiah 9:6 is to be called, among other things, "The everlasting Father." It was Jehovah Himself who was to come in the form of a child. The Jews of that day believed that this promised child, whom they called Messiah, "the anointed one," would be a mighty king who would overthrow their earthly enemies, and set up their nation as the greatest on earth.

So when He came as a lowly babe in a manger in Bethlehem, most of the people could not possibly have been made to believe that He was really their promised Messiah. Only the few simple, good people who were looking for guidance for their personal lives and the few really wise people who saw more than external meaning in the prophecies could be told of the Advent. The shepherds represent those who cherish innocence and the Wise Men those who cherish truth for the sake of life.

It was nighttime when the Lord was born (but see @AC 22).

Light is one of the representatives of truth and darkness pictures ignorance. The Lord came at a time when people were about to lose all true knowledge of Him because the religious leaders, who were the custodians of the Word, had overlaid it with their traditions. The only way in which the Lord could save men was by coming down to them in a form which they could see and touch. Moreover, the power of evil in the world had become so great that good people could no longer stand against it. Only the Lord could overcome it, and to do this He had to take on a human nature in which evil could reach and attack Him. It was because He loves us that He gave Himself to us on the first Christmas day, the most wonderful gift ever given. We should never forget, when we are thanking people for our Christmas presents, to thank the Lord for this greatest gift of all.

The fact that the Lord was born in a stable and laid in a manger pictures His coming to feed our good affections, for you remember that cattle$ represent our affections for useful labor. The Lord did not come, as some of the people expected, to set them up above others, but to teach them how to serve others. Only the humble recognized Him, and only the humble really recognize Him today. With the others, whose minds are full of self, there is no room for Him, just as there was no room in the inns.

[*Although it is usual — and certainly not harmful — to associate cattle with the scene of the Lord's birth, in @AE 706[12] we read (in relation to Luke 2:12) that "a manger, as a feeding place for horses, signifies the doctrine of truth from the Word." —Editor]

The shepherds, keeping watch over their flock by night in the field near Bethlehem, represent all those simple good people who cling to kindness and goodness even when they cannot find anyone to tell them about the Lord and His truth. To such people knowledge of the savior comes as a great burst of light. They welcome it and hurry to learn more and to tell everyone else about it, just as the shepherds did. And the message of the heavenly host, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men," expresses the very heart of heaven, love to the Lord and love to the neighbor. The Lord came into the world to teach us both by His words and by His example, that it is these two loves which make heaven both in the other world and here in this world in the heart of everyone who is willing to overcome his selfishness, learn of the Lord, and try to obey Him.

