
=== Primary

Be sure that this class knows all the basic details of the lesson. A good plan is to ask them first what they know of the story of the shepherds, then ask them to pay close attention while you read the story from the Word, and then ask for the additional details which they did not mention at first.

Do you know whose birthday we celebrate on Christmas day?

The Lord Himself was born on that day many, many years ago.

We know, of course, that this was not the beginning of the Lord.

The Lord has lived always. He made the world and everything in it. But men needed to see Him. He had always told them about Himself and about how they must live if they wanted to be truly happy. But they had not really believed Him.

Men thought they knew enough to live without the Lord's help.

They wanted to have their own way instead of to learn from Him. So they became very selfish and very unhappy. The people who could read the Word, the scribes and Pharisees, told the others what they wanted them to do instead of what the Lord had said. So those who wanted to do right could no longer find out what really was right.

Then the Lord finally had to come into the world Himself to show people how to live.

Where was the Lord born?

What is Bethlehem called in verse 11? This is because David was born there.

Mary and Joseph were descendants of David.

Their own home was not in Bethlehem, but at this time they had traveled to Bethlehem on business.

The Holy Land had become part of the Roman Empire.

The Emperor of Rome had issued an order that everyone should be taxed, and everyone had to go to his ancestral home to be enrolled for taxation. When Mary and Joseph arrived, the city was crowded with people, and there was no room for them in the inns.

Where did they find lodging?

About how many years ago was the Lord born?

How can you remember?

The Lord came into the world to save men from evil by showing them the right way to live, making it possible for them to see and to overcome their temptations.

That is why He is called the savior.

When He was born, only a few people could be told.

This was because most people were evil and did not want to know the truth.

What did the shepherds see?

What did the angel of the Lord tell them?

What message did the heavenly host give?

Where did the shepherds find the Lord?

What did they do after they found Him?

Most of the people soon forgot what they had been told by the shepherds. Who did not forget?

Sometimes at Christmas we think so much about the presents people give us that we forget the most wonderful present of all, our present from the Lord, the knowledge of our heavenly Father, which He gave us by coming into the world Himself on the first Christmas day.

The prophet Isaiah had foretold His coming long before. This is what he wrote: "For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace."

