
=== Primary

The story is an easy one to tell and to talk about. Try to read the whole two chapters to the children. Then follow the notes and questions. Stress the fact that the Lord "prepared" a great fish.

Today we have a story about a prophet who did not want to do what the Lord told him to do. He ran away, imagining that the Lord would not follow him. Did you ever run and hide when you did not want to do what your mother told you to do? It didn't work very well, did it? Let us read from the Bible about Jonah and what happened to him. [Read both chapters.]

Some people do not believe this story is true.

But we should remember that it is no more wonderful than the rest of the miracles described in the Bible.

And we should remember that the Lord prepared the great fish to swallow up Jonah.

It was not just any great fish that happened to be swimming around at the time.

The Lord had work for Jonah to do, and made plans to take care of him. The Lord knows our hearts so well that He is always ready for what we do. 

Why was Jonah running away?

We sometimes try to run away from what we know we ought to do. But there were good things about Jonah, too.

I wonder if you noticed something in the story which showed why the Lord could use Jonah as His prophet even though Jonah was not eager to obey. When Jonah found that his unwillingness was making trouble for other people, he admitted his fault and took the penalty himself rather than let others suffer. So, although he did go through a very frightening and unpleasant experience, the Lord could save him.

Another thing to notice is that when Jonah was inside the great fish and prayed to the Lord, he did not pray just to be saved, but instead he thanked the Lord for showing him his faults so that he could repent of them.

Jonah saw the lesson the Lord was teaching him and thanked the Lord for it, even when he did not know he was going to be saved.

Afterward Jonah obeyed the Lord and carried His message to Nineveh. The people of Nineveh listened and repented.

So Jonah finally was the means of helping many people.

