
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This lesson offers a good opportunity for discussion of our public worship and the spirit in which we should come to it. Another good discussion topic is the proper attitude toward a sinner and his punishment — whether the sinner be oneself or someone else.

---
In Our Heavenly Father's Book, part of the Bible series published for our Sunday School Association many years ago (1884), the Rev. Wm. B. Hayden writes concerning the book of Leviticus:

"The Hebrews call this book 'Vayyikra' meaning 'And God called,' from its first word 'And Jehovah called unto Moses, and spake unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, etc.' This is indeed the keynote of the book. It is everywhere the 'call' of the voice of God speaking to the church. This Divine formula is repeated at the head of every distinct section or enactment, thus of nearly every chapter; while the closing sentence of the book contains this averment: 'These are the commandments which Jehovah commanded Moses for the children of Israel in Mount Sinai.' Thus nothing is left in doubt as to the Divine origin of the book.

"Our name Leviticus is simply the Latin derived from the Greek Leuitikon, meaning Levitical, or that which pertains to the Levites; in reference to the fact that its contents are so largely occupied with the duties of the Levites, in which body are included all the priests. It consists principally of laws, having historical matter only in chapters 8 to 10, relating to the dedication of Aaron and his sons to the priesthood, and the death of Nadab and Abihu for offering strange fire before the Lord. These laws relate to the offerings and sacrifices; to purity and impurity; to the priests, with the holy—days and festivals; and the regulations intended to mark the separation between Israel and the heathen nations. To which are added the blessings connected with obedience, and the evil consequences of disobedience, chapter 26, with the regulations concerning vows, chapter 27."

We recall that when the Lord called Moses at the burning bush, one of Moses' objections to his task was that he was not eloquent but "slow of speech, and of a slow tongue." Moses represents divine law. The law does not immediately appeal to the heart or emotions of men. The Lord told Moses that his brother Aaron should speak for him. He said (Exodus 4:14-16): "Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well. And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee: and when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart. And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth; and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what he shall do. And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people; and he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God." From that time Moses and Aaron were always together, and when the directions for the tabernacle and its worship were given Moses from Sinai, Aaron was appointed high priest, with his four sons as his assistants, and all the tribe of Levi were set apart for the service of the tabernacle and its worship. The high priesthood was to pass down in the line of Aaron. Nadab and Abihu were his two older sons, Eleazar and Ithamar the two younger. With the death of Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar became next in line and did become high priest upon Aaron's death.

Aaron, because he was high priest, in the inmost sense represents the Lord as to divine good, but in the spiritual sense he represents "what is outward of the Spiritual Church" while Moses represents "what is inward." Aaron's sons represent the doctrines of good and truth from the Word. The function of the priesthood is to lead in worship and to teach according to the pattern showed in the mount and under the direction of divine law. We recall that the ancient Hebrew Church was merely the representative of a church, maintaining — during the interval between the total loss of internal worship by men and the Lord's coming into the world to restore that worship — the connection between the Lord and man by means of the correspondence of their external worship. It was therefore essential that every detail of their worship be maintained exactly as commanded, and dire punishments were decreed and meted out for neglect of these details. We note in the literal story that Aaron and his two remaining sons accepted without question the justice of the punishment of Nadab and Abihu and the command not to observe mourning for them. This command and the permission to the people to mourn picture the fact that we are permitted in our natural and external states to feel horror and regret at the terrible consequences of evil, but that our higher spiritual understanding should recognize these as inevitable and right and as necessary to the preservation of the possibility of man's free reception of the Lord's love.

Nadab and Abihu broke the statute which required that when incense was offered in the tabernacle, the coals on which it was burned in the censers should be taken from the fire on the great altar of burnt offering in the outer court. [See notes on Intermediate and Older Teen pages.] This altar represents our humble acknowledgment that of ourselves we are evil and ignorant and powerless to do good, that all goodness and truth are the Lord's, and that to Him we owe all our powers. The fire on this altar is genuine love to the Lord arising from this acknowledgment. The offering of incense represents our prayers and praises, especially those offered in public worship. The law means that our worship is acceptable only when it comes from genuine love to the Lord springing from recognition of our unworthiness and need of Him. "Strange" or unholy fire is a selfish motive prompting our worship. If, for example, we go to church "to be seen of men," to increase our self-esteem, to help our business, to establish desirable social contacts, or for any other reason which has self at its center instead of the Lord, we are taking strange fire in our censers. And such worship, by ministering to and increasing our self-love, destroys our spiritual life, just as the fire from the altar consumed Nadab and Abihu.

The camp of Israel, always arranged in the order given from Sinai, represents heaven or a heavenly character. When we offer worship from impure motives, we — like Nadab and Abihu — are carried "out of the camp." And we are carried out in our "coats." The coat — more properly "tunic" — was the inner, not the outer, garment of the priest, and represents the internal sense of the Word, or internal worship. When we profane external worship, all possibility of coming into internal worship is also destroyed.

In the letter the rest of the chapter seems to have no connection with the story of Nadab and Abihu. But in the internal sense there is a wonderful continuity and order. For example, in verse 9 the command to drink no wine or strong drink when they entered the tabernacle signifies that "worship of the Lord should not be from truths either spiritual or celestial, but entirely from good." And the rest of the chapter carries further the explanation of what true worship is and of the states which profane and destroy it. Indeed the whole book of Leviticus, which by many today is laid aside as outdated and irrelevant to our modern life and its needs, offers us in its internal sense teaching of the deepest and most essential and practical nature.* We take up so little of it in our Sunday school lessons only because any adequate treatment of it would require many lessons. In the story of Nadab and Abihu, however, we at least touch the heart of the teaching of this book in a form which, like the Lord's parables, is easily grasped in its letter, and will stay in the mind.

[* A helpful source of information on these deeper lessons is the New Church Commentary on Leviticus by Henry Maclagan published by James Speirs, London, 1912. -Editor]

