
=== Intermediate

The meaning of "strange" or unholy fire as illustrated in our own lives and of the particular destruction which follows is the lesson to be stressed. Point out how brief a story this is and yet how deep and important its meaning. Call attention to the nature and value of the book of Leviticus. The sin of Nadab and Abihu comes into the experience of young people especially in the form of thinking they know better than the Lord — or better than their parents - how things should be done. Stress the importance of doing even little things in the right way and of obeying the Lord even if at the time we do not fully understand the reason for His commands.

---
The story of Nadab and Abihu is one of the stories in the Word to which people sometimes object because they think the punishment too severe for the crime. Even as to the literal story, however, we must remember that the externals of worship were all-important to the ancient Hebrews. For this reason the Lord chose this nation to receive and preserve these externals. To transgress them even in small ways was for them just as serious a crime as an interior sin would be for people today. Evil, in whatever degree, brings its own punishment, and it is right that it should be so. If we are thinking of eternal values, we shall not mourn because punishment follows our wrongdoings. Instead, because that is the only way we can see and check them, we shall mourn the wrongdoing itself. That is what is meant by verse 6.

The law for the burning of incense was given from Sinai among the many explicit laws and regulations which are recorded in the books of Exodus and Leviticus, laws which it was the special duty of the Levites to observe. Incense was to be burned on the altar of incense which stood in the Holy Place before the veil which covered the entrance to the Holy of Holies. It was to be burned night and morning. The very ingredients of the incense were specified: stacte, onycha, galbanum, and pure frankincense. The fire for the censers was to be taken from the ever-burning fire on the great altar in the outer court of the tabernacle. This fire pictures love to the Lord, and all worship, to be pure, must be kindled from such a "fire." [The sin of Nadab and Abihu is obscure. There is no clear regulation in the Pentateuch that fire to light incense must be taken from the main altar. Swedenborg, in @AC 9965, presumes quite understandably — based on the correspondence of the fire from the great altar — that the infraction was that these men took fire from another source. -Editor.]

But people sometimes worship from other motives, like the scribes and Pharisees who prayed standing on the street corners that they might be seen of men, and like people today who go to church because it may help their business. The motive in such cases is selfishness. This is the "strange" or unholy fire of our story. When this is the motive in worship, all the good things such people hear in church are turned into selfish channels and, instead of feeding the soul, their very worship helps to destroy their spiritual life. To use holy things for selfish purposes is profanation, which kills all good possibilities. So the fire from the Lord actually does destroy those who come before Him with strange fire in their censers.

Nadab and Abihu were carried "in their coats out of the camp." The "coat" (more properly the "tunic") was the inner garment, and the tunic of the priests represented the internal truths of the Word. The camp of Israel, which was always arranged according to the order prescribed on the mount, pictures a heavenly character, or heaven. So to be carried out of the camp is to be cast into hell. Their being carried out in their tunics pictures the fact that in profaning their outward worship they had also profaned its internal.

Sometimes people excuse themselves for staying away from church and for condemning the church organization by saying that after all the organization is not the real church. But the fact is that the organization is the only body the church has in the world, and we are a part of it. In condemning the organization we are really only condemning ourselves, and by staying away from church we cut ourselves off from the spiritual life which is the soul of the external church.

Swedenborg writes in @AE 324: "Nadab and Abihu, sons of Aaron, were consumed by fire from heaven because they burnt incense from other fire than the fire of the Altar of burnt offering, which is offering worship from a love other than love to the Lord."

