
=== Notes for Parents

The book of Leviticus contains the Levitical laws, the regulations governing the life of the Levites — the tribe of Levi — and their conduct of the tabernacle worship, as well as many laws for all the people. The tribe of Levi had been set apart by the Lord for the services connected with worship in the tabernacle, and Aaron the brother of Moses had been named high priest. His four sons were to be assistant priests, and Aaron's office was to pass down in succession to his descendants.

The tabernacle was the center of the life of the people. Detailed instructions for its construction and furnishing were given Moses at Sinai. It had three parts: the inmost room or Holy of Holies, the outer room or Holy Place, and the outer court. The only article of furniture in the Holy of Holies was the ark, the chest which contained the two tables of stone on which the commandments had been written by the finger of God. In the Holy Place were the altar of incense, the table of shewbread, and the seven—branched golden candlestick. In the open outer court were the great altar of sacrifice and the bronze laver for washing.

Our lesson today is concerned with the two altars. Sacrifices were offered at so many times and for so many reasons that there was always fire on the great altar. In fact it was commanded (Leviticus 6:13) that the fire on this altar should never go out. To sacrifice really means "to make sacred," and the various sacrifices represent the offering of all our thoughts and affections to the Lord, the fire on the altar being genuine love for the Lord and for serving Him. This should be the motive in everything we do, as we learn from the first commandment. Every morning and every evening Aaron's sons were to take fire from this great altar and carry it in their censers into the tabernacle to the altar of incense and put sweet incense upon it. The burning of incense pictures the lifting up of our thoughts in prayer to the Lord. We should read here Revelation 5:8 and 8:3.

But Nadab and Abihu, Aaron's two older sons, "offered strange /unholy/ fire before the Lord" and were forthwith devoured by fire from the Lord. Strange fire is a love other than love to the Lord, that is, it is the love of self. When we pray selfishly or go to church for any reason except to worship the Lord, we are "offering strange fire." Then the things we receive, instead of being blessings, are turned by us to selfish uses and our spiritual life is destroyed. It is in this sense that fire from the Lord becomes destructive.

Nadab and Abihu were carried out of the camp, and Aaron and his two younger sons were told not to mourn for them in the usual way because they themselves were serving in the tabernacle. But the people were told to "bewail the burning." When evil is done, the consequences are inevitable. Punishment is inherent in sin. We naturally bewail the punishment, but if we are serving the Lord truly, it is the sin and not the punishment that grieves us.

