
=== Primary

The class should learn the name Aaron, that he was Moses' brother, and that he was the high priest. They can understand that he had four sons and that two of them were obedient and two disobedient. Tell them about the censers and what they were for before going into the story proper. These children can be told why Nadab and Abihu had no excuse for what they did. We are to blame if we do what we know is wrong. This is a good lesson from which to teach young children how important it is to do right in the little things as well as in the big.

---
You remember how the Lord spoke the ten commandments from the top of Mount Sinai and how all the people, in their camp at the foot of the mountain, heard Him say them. Then the Lord called Moses to come up to the top of the mountain and wrote the ten commandments on two tables of stone so that they could always be kept. And then He gave Moses a great many other laws by which the children of Israel were to be governed and especially all the laws for their worship.

They were to make a special tent, called the tabernacle, which was to be their church, and the Lord told Moses just what furniture was to be in it.

Do you remember what articles of furniture were kept in the two rooms of the tabernacle?

In the outer court were the great bronze altar of sacrifice and the bronze laver — a bowl to hold water for washing.

Aaron, the brother of Moses, was made high priest.

His four sons — Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar — were to be assistant priests.

Eleazar and Ithamar were faithful priests, but Nadab and Abihu were not. What did Nadab and Abihu do that was wrong?

The censer was the bowl or dish to hold the fire on which the incense was burned.

The fire was to be taken from the great altar in the outer court.

There was also another altar: the altar of incense, which was one of the four pieces of furniture inside the tabernacle itself. It was made of wood covered with gold, and it had a crown of pure gold around the top. Every morning and every evening the priests were to burn incense on this altar. The incense was made of spices which had a sweet smell when they were burning. Each priest carried a censer in which to place the coals on which the incense was sprinkled to make it burn. The priests were to take the coals for their censers from the fire burning on the great altar of sacrifice.

Every act of worship was to be performed just as the Lord commanded it. Nadab and Abihu knew this, and knew that they were disobeying the Lord. What did they do that was wrong?

What happened to them?

The Israelites were accustomed, when a relative died, to shave their heads and tear their clothing as a sign of mourning.

What did the Lord tell Aaron and his other two sons about this?

This was because they were serving in the tabernacle as the Lord's priests and must recognize and show the people that Nadab and Abihu deserved their punishment.

