
=== Senior

After taking up the meaning of the story, it may be helpful to discuss some of the various ways in which we may spoil our lives by allowing selfish motives to control us. Stress the importance of humility and obedience.

The book of Leviticus contains very few incidents like that of our lesson today. For the most part it is composed of a long series of what often seem petty regulations concerning the conduct of the ancient Hebrews and particularly concerning their worship, with its offerings, sacrifices, and ceremonials. The book takes its name from the Levites, the tribe of Levi, who were set apart from the other tribes to have special charge of the tabernacle and its worship. Aaron, the brother of Moses, was appointed high priest by the Lord, and the office was to pass down through his descendants. His four sons — Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar — were appointed his assistants. Eleazar was the one who actually succeeded Aaron when he died (Numbers 20:22-29).

We remember that the ancient Hebrew Church was a representative church. These people were "chosen" because they had lost all knowledge of true internal worship and cared only for externals and so could be led through fear of punishment and hope of reward to maintain external forms which by correspondence would keep the connection between man and the Lord until the time was ripe for the Lord Himself to come into the world to restore internal worship. So the all-important thing for the Jews was to observe the laws of their worship in every detail as the Lord had given them to Moses on the mount. A number of times in the Old Testament story, as in our lesson today, we read of sudden and violent death resulting from the breaking of what may seem to us a minor regulation. But we note that the people themselves accepted these punishments as just, because to them the small regulations were all essential — as they actually are for their correspondence.

Some of the deepest lessons in the Word are found within these Levitical laws. Leviticus 16:12-13* tells us that when incense was offered by the priests in the tabernacle, their censers were to be filled with burning coals taken from the great altar of sacrifice which stood in the outer court. The great altar represents our recognition that everything we have comes to us from the Lord and is to be used in His service. The fire on the great altar represents genuine love to the Lord. The offering of incense — which was sprinkled on the coals in the censers — represents our prayers, worship, and thanksgiving. We learn this from John's vision in Revelation 5:8 of the four beasts and the four and twenty elders who "fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints." The law in regard to the offering of incense means that our prayers and thanksgivings are acceptable only when they are inspired by genuine love to the Lord kindled by our recognition of our own unworthiness and complete dependence upon Him.

[*This records a special instruction to Aaron after the death of his two sons. There is a prohibition in Exodus 30:9 against offering "strange" or unholy incense, but no definite general instruction about the source of the coals. The sin, however, is clearly one of irreverence. -Editor]

The "strange" or unholy fire which Nadab and Abihu brought in their censers represents a selfish motive in worship. If we go to church because we like to be respected, or because it is "good business," or because it enables us to think of ourselves as good, if we pray for selfish indulgences or for the downfall of those we dislike, we are offering strange fire. And our punishment is just as immediate and dire as that of Nadab and Abihu, although we may not be conscious of it until we come into the other world. For the fire which goes forth from the altar, the Lord's love always going forth to those who seek Him, is turned in us to selfish ends, and our spiritual life perishes and we are carried "from before the sanctuary out of the camp." Read Matthew 8:10-12 and compare it with this story. The sin which the Lord condemned in the strongest language was the sin of hypocrisy. Read also Matthew 23:23-33. It is the urgent warning against hypocrisy in worship that is given us in this brief story of Nadab and Abihu. Aaron and his other two sons were commanded not to mourn for Nadab and Abihu, but the people were allowed to mourn. It is natural for us to feel sorry for the wrongdoer when he suffers the penalty of his deeds — especially if the wrongdoer is oneself — but our higher understanding should recognize the justice and necessity of this result of evil. Divine laws are fundamental laws, and if they could be broken with impunity there would be no order in the universe and no possibility of any sure hope for happiness and peace.

