
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: What was the tabernacle? portable church

Primary: Who was the high priest? Aaron

Primary: Who were his assistants? his four sons

Junior: What two altars are involved in our lesson for today? great bronze, incense

Junior: In what division of the tabernacle was the great altar? outer court

Junior: What was it used for? sacrifices

Junior: In what division of the tabernacle was the altar of incense? Holy Place

Junior: How often was incense to be burned upon it? morning and evening

Primary: What were the coals to burn the incense carried in? a censer

Primary: Where were these coals to be obtained? great altar

Junior: Who were the two oldest sons of Aaron? Nadab and Abihu

Primary: What did they do which was wrong? offered "strange" or unholy fire

Primary: What is meant by the fire's being "strange"? not proper

Primary: What happened to Nadab and Abihu? fire killed them

Primary: Where were their bodies taken? outside camp

Junior: What command did Moses give to Aaron and his two younger sons? don't mourn

Junior: What did he tell the people to do? bewail the burning

Intermediate: What does incense represent? prayers

Senior: What does the fire on the great altar represent? genuine love to the Lord

Intermediate: Spiritually, what is "strange" or unholy fire? acting religious for selfish reasons

== THE TWELVE SPIES — Numbers 13; 14

It is suggested that in all classes the teacher read Exodus 31:1-7, then say that everything was made according to the Lord's directions, and that the tabernacle was finally set up in the midst of the encampment. Then read Exodus 40:33-38. Mention again the contents of the book of Leviticus and the reason for the name of the book of Numbers. Then read Numbers 10:33-36 as the beginning of the further journeyings of the Israelites, and tell the class briefly the story of the almost immediate murmurings and rebellion culminating in the rebellion of Aaron and Miriam. This shows the state of the Israelites at that time, and leads directly into the story of the spies.

