
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The three main lines of thought to be followed are the transition from the Ancient to the Jewish Church, the change of application in our interpretation as we pass to the historical part of the Word, and the meaning of Hagar and Ishmael.

---
We have thought of Noah as picturing the Ancient Church which was established on earth after the flood. We commonly think of this as the second church and of the Jewish Church as the third. But Swedenborg points out that the three sons of Noah picture different derivations of doctrinals and worships in the Ancient Church — Shem true internal worship, Ham "internal worship corrupted," and Japheth "external worship corresponding to internal" (@AC 1146) - and the explanation of the internal sense of the genealogies in chapter 10 of Genesis shows clearly how these three types deviated more and more Widely as time went on from the true pattern of the Ancient Church. As might be expected, the descendants of Shem continued to be the core of the Lord's connection with mankind, and in this line there developed a "second Ancient Church" in Eber. Of this church we read in @AC 1343:

"That 'Eber' was a nation called, from Eber as its father, the Hebrew nation, and that thereby is signified the worship in general of the second Ancient Church, is evident from those historical parts of the Word wherein it is spoken of. From that nation, because the new worship commenced there, all were called Hebrews who had a similar worship. Their worship was of the kind that was afterwards restored among the descendants of Jacob; and its chief characteristic consisted in their calling their God 'Jehovah,' and in their having sacrifices. The Most Ancient Church with unanimity acknowledged the Lord, and called Him Jehovah, as is evident from the first chapters of Genesis, and elsewhere in the Word. The Ancient Church, that is, the church after the flood, also acknowledged the Lord, and called Him Jehovah, especially those who had internal worship, and were called 'sons of Shem.' The others, who were in external worship, also acknowledged Jehovah, and worshiped Him. But when internal worship became external, and still more when it became idolatrous, and when each nation began to have its own god whom it worshiped, the Hebrew nation retained the name Jehovah; and hereby were distinguished from the other nations. Together with their external worship, the descendants of Jacob in Egypt lost this also — that they called their God Jehovah; nay, Moses himself did so; and therefore they were instructed first of all that Jehovah was the God of the Hebrews, and the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob."

@AC 1360 tells us that Terah, the father of Abram, was a "third Ancient Church" which had become idolatrous, and Terah's death in Haran (@AC 1375) signalized the end of this idolatrous worship and "the beginning of a representative church through Abram."

In @AC 1403 Swedenborg says: "From the first chapter of Genesis up to this point [Genesis 12:1], or rather to the mention of Eber, the historicals have not been true but made—up historicals, which in the internal sense signify celestial and spiritual actualities." This is further explained in @AC 1409: "The Most Ancient Church, which was celestial, looked upon all earthly and worldly, and also bodily things, which were in any wise objects of the senses, as being dead things; but as each and all things in the world present some idea of the Lord's kingdom, consequently of things celestial and spiritual, when they saw them or apprehended them by any sense, they thought not of them, but of the celestial and spiritual things; indeed they thought not from the worldly things, but by means of them; and thus with them things that were dead became living. The things thus signified were collected from their lips by their posterity and were formed by them into doctrinals, which were the Word of the Ancient Church, after the flood. With the Ancient Church these were significative; for through them they learned internal things, and from them they thought of spiritual and celestial things. But when this knowledge began to perish, so that they did not know that such things were signified, and began to regard the terrestrial and worldly things as holy, and to worship them, with no thought of their signification, the same things were then made representative. Thus arose the Representative Church, which had its beginning in Abram and was afterwards instituted with the posterity of Jacob. From this it may be known that representatives had their rise from the significatives of the Ancient Church, and these from the celestial ideas of the Most Ancient Church. But with representatives the character of the person is not considered at all, but the thing which he represents; for all the kings of Judah and Israel, of whatever character, represented the Lord's kingly function; and all the priests, of whatever character, represented His priestly function. Thus the evil as well as the good could represent the Lord and the celestial and spiritual things of His kingdom."

The story of the patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob pictures in the internal historical sense the development of this representative church, and in its internal sense the development of any one of us. So we may think of the whole story of Abraham — which is more or less familiar to all of us — as picturing our spiritual state in infancy and very early childhood. Our lesson for today deals with the beginning of the change from this innocent, trustful, obedient age to the part of our childhood when we are beginning to try to think and act for ourselves. Swedenborg summarizes our chapter in its inmost meaning as follows: "The subject treated of in this chapter is the Lord's first rational, which was conceived by the influx of the internal man into the affection of memory-knowledges [scientiae] of the external. The internal man is 'Abram'; the affection of memory-knowledges in the external is 'Hagar the Egyptian handmaid'; the rational thence derived is 'Ishmael.'" The name Hagar means a "stranger" or "sojourner" and in a simple way we can see that our conclusions from our early thinking are inevitably temporary. They are based on our knowledge of the external world alone. We reason from appearances. And it follows that we resent efforts to correct our ideas and conduct by those who are older and wiser and whose standards are based on deeper spiritual truths. This is pictured in the story of Hagar's despising her mistress, being rebuked, and fleeing from the face of her mistress.

Hagar is found by the angel at the fountain of water in the wilderness. Our affection for external knowledges, under the Lord's providence, is always supplied with some external knowledge of the Word, which serves for rebuke, advice, and encouragement in goodness. So Hagar returns and is again subject to her mistress. But Hagar's son, although he is to be the father of a great people, is not to be Abraham's heir. This means that our first natural reasoning is necessary and will always play a part in our lives, especially in the conduct of our worldly affairs, but it is not adequate to lead us in our spiritual progress.

