
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The reason for the fall of the Ancient Church and the quality in Abraham which enabled the Lord to use him to begin a new dispensation should be made clear. In the lesson the meaning of producing children and the meaning of the Egyptian servant Hagar are the important parts to stress.

---
The character of the Ancient Church — the church called Noah - was different from that of the Most Ancient Church. The people of the Most Ancient Church were governed by their will or emotions, but those of the Ancient Church were governed by their understanding. So at the height of the Ancient Church the people were very wise. They loved to study the inner meaning of their Word and they understood it much more fully than we do. But their wisdom was accompanied by a great temptation, the temptation to be proud of their knowledge and to forget to be humble before God. This "pride of self-intelligence" grew until they could no longer serve the Lord as His Church on earth. The end of the Ancient Church is described in the story of the Tower of Babel.

According to His promise — the covenant of the rainbow — the Lord did not destroy these people. He merely took from them the understanding of the truths they had misused, and scattered the people "upon the face of all the earth" (Genesis 11:8). Some of the religions of the Orient are based on ideas handed down by tradition from this church.

But again the Lord gathered a remnant of good people who still wished to obey Him, instructed them anew, and built them into a church. Abram's virtue was implicit obedience. He had many false ideas in his mind because he had grown up in the last days of the decline of the true Ancient Church, but he was willing to do what he believed the Lord wanted him to do. So the Lord could promise to bless him and make of him a great nation.

In our chapter for today Abram and his wife Sarai are very old and, in spite of the Lord's promise, Abram still has no heir. So Sarai offers Abram her Egyptian bondwoman Hagar that he may have a child by her, and Abram accepts the offer.

We know that it is wrong for a man to have more than one wife at a time. The people of the early churches — while they were true churches — knew it, too. But by the time of Abram men had forgotten a great many of the truths which had been given them in the beginning, and Abram and Sarai had no thought that they were doing wrong. So the Lord did not blame them for it. He does not blame us for doing wrong in ignorance unless our ignorance is willful; that is, unless we have refused to learn the truth when it was offered us. This is one of the great mercies of the Lord. Nevertheless when we do wrong, there are always bad consequences. Hagar's son could not be Abraham's heir.

In spiritual terms, the desire for children is the desire to produce what is good and true, to make our lives count for something in the building of the Lord's kingdom. This is a good desire, but it is often at first united to false ideas of what is good and true. Hagar was an Egyptian and a servant. There are three great Bible countries: the land of Canaan, Assyria, and Egypt. Like all groups of three in the Word they represent the three great planes of our lives: will, thought, and act. You will learn more about these as we go on, but you may remember that Egypt is the land of "memory-knowledge," Assyria the land of thought and reasoning, and the land of Canaan the land of the will to make all that we know and think serve the Lord. Think, for example, how we come by our religion. First we store in our memories knowledge from the letter of the Word — this is Egypt. Then we think about these knowledges and come to understand what they mean — this is Assyria. Finally we come to love to obey what these knowledges teach — this is the land of Canaan. Women in the Bible represent affections for various kinds of truth. So Hagar the Egyptian represents the affection for memory-knowledges. This is one of our early affections — we like to "know things." This is a good and useful affection so long as it is made to serve the true purpose for which knowledge is intended, which is Sarai, Abram's true wife. But sometimes we become proud of our knowledge and think we know more than those who are really wiser than we. This is Hagar despising her mistress.

When Hagar was rebuked, she ran away into the wilderness.

A wilderness is the opposite of a safe, cultivated place where one can be at home. Many times in the Bible we find people going into the wilderness. This is always a picture of a confused and unsettled state of mind, when one seems to have lost his firm hold on the truth, his spiritual home. Those who are proud of their own knowledge and despise others are often brought into such a state.

Yet, in the Bible stories, people in the wilderness are always, like Hagar, being led to wells or springs of water. This means that the Lord is always present to show us the truth when we realize our need of it.

The angel of the Lord found Hagar by the fountain of water in the wilderness. An angel is a messenger — that is what the word means. First he told her to go back to her mistress and do right, and then he made her encouraging promises about her son. When we have done wrong and are confused and unhappy, the Lord leads us to the truth, and His angel — which for us is the Word — tells us to go back and try to make up for the wrong we have done and that the result will be a great blessing.

Hagar's son was Ishmael. Later we shall take up the meaning of Ishmael and Isaac, Abraham's two sons. Notice here the prophecies which the angel spoke concerning Ishmael.

