
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The reason for the decline of the Ancient Church is important for the Older Children. They should also be drilled on the first part of the Abraham story. The essential questions for this are given in their notes. The teacher should add questions on chapter 13. In this lesson stress the weakness and foolishness of trying to run away from the consequences of our wrongdoing.

---
After the time of Noah the people had a Bible from which they learned the truth. It is called the Ancient Word and certain books in it are referred to in our Bible. Read Numbers 21:14, Joshua 10:13, and 2 Samuel 1:18. The Ancient Word has been lost, but we may know something of what it was like because Moses copied from it the first eleven chapters of Genesis. It was all written in symbol language in which the people of that time spoke and wrote, since they knew to what everything in nature corresponds. They were very wise. But unfortunately they began to pride themselves on their wisdom and to forget that they needed to look to the Lord for guidance. So their church — the Ancient Church — declined, and again the time came when the Lord had to gather together the remnant of good people and build up a new church.

The beginning of this new church is described in the story of Abraham. The original names of Abraham and his wife Sarah were Abram and Sarai. The h, which is one of the letters of the Lord's name Jehovah, was put in later to show the closer relation they came to bear to the Lord (Genesis 17:1-5, 15).

Why did Abram go down into Egypt?

Where did Abram settle when he returned to the land of Canaan?

In Egypt Abram had gained great riches, but there was one thing he did not have. What was it?

How did Sarai decide to help Abram to have a son?

Abram and Sarai did not know that it was wrong for a man to have more than one wife at a time. So the Lord did not blame them. He saw the love in Sarai's heart which wanted to make her husband happy.

What was Sarai's servant's name? From what country did she come?

When Hagar knew she was to have a son, how did she treat Sarai?

Do we ever make fun of someone because he can't do something that we can do? This is always wrong. In the first place, there are probably things he can do which we can't. But even if we could do everything better than he, we should not let it make us proud, because it is the Lord who gives us all our abilities, and He gives them to us to use to help other people and never to hurt them. Did Abram side with Hagar or with Sarai?

Abram was happy that he was to have a son, but he was a just man and he knew that Hagar was in the wrong.

Where did Hagar go when Sarai treated her harshly?

Where did the angel of the Lord find her?

What did the angel tell her to do?

What did He promise her?

We must never run away from the results of our own wrongdoing. That is cowardly and makes us weaker instead of stronger. We grow stronger by acknowledging what we have done that is wrong and by trying to make it right as far as we can. The Lord cannot make us happy while we are doing wrong. The word angel means "messenger." The angel of the Lord speaks to us just as truly as he did to Hagar. The Lord's messenger to us is the Bible, and He can speak to us through everything we know that comes from the Bible. You know that when you have done wrong, there is something inside you that seems to be telling you so and telling you just what you ought to do. We call this inside voice our conscience, but it is based on what we know from the Lord's Word. It may help you sometimes, when you hear the voice of conscience, to think, "This is the angel of the Lord speaking to me by the fountain of water in the wilderness."

Did Hagar obey the Lord?

What was her son's name?

What did the angel say he would be?

