
=== Notes for Parents

Abraham was a real person. The Jews think of him as the father of their race. His home was in the city of Ur in the land of Chaldea, and he came of a nation of idol worshipers, one of the many branches into which the Ancient Church was divided after its fall, which is described in the symbol story of the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1-9).

In Abram the Lord found a man who would obey Him even at great cost to himself, and He called him to leave his home and go to the land of Canaan where He would make him the father of a great nation. Abram obeyed and the Lord prospered him greatly; but in our chapter for today we find that he and his wife Sarai have grown old and still have no child. How is Abram to become the father of a nation? Sarai tries to solve the problem by giving him her Egyptian bondservant Hagar as a wife. People in that degenerate time had lost all knowledge of what a true marriage is. It seems strange to us that we should read in the Bible of men who had more than one wife and yet were blessed by the Lord. But we must remember that the Lord judges us not by the wrong things which we do ignorantly — which are many — but by those we do knowing that they are wrong.

Sarai meant to do the right thing, and when Hagar despised her, Abram upheld Sarai. Hagar had to be taught to submit to her mistress. We cannot escape the consequences of our misdeeds by running away from them. Yet the Lord dealt gently with Hagar, as He does with us. His Word is our "fountain of water in the wilderness" and also the angel — or "messenger" — of the Lord, recalling us to our duty and promising us happiness if we will obey.

Ishmael was to become the father of a great people, but he was not to be Abram's heir, as we shall learn later. You will notice that the names Abram and Sarai are not spelled in this chapter as we are accustomed to find them spelled. In chapter 17, verses 1-5 and 15-16, you will find the story of how the spelling of their names came to be changed. The h which was inserted in each is one of the letters of the Lord's name Jehovah and was added to show that they were to stand thenceforth in a closer relation to the Lord than before. Every letter of the Hebrew in the original language of the Bible is important.

