
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Try to fix in the children's minds the series of names Adam, Noah, Abraham. Emphasize the fact that the descendants of Noah came to think they knew better than the Lord, just as Adam and Eve had, and so they stopped obeying Him and became bad. Then speak of Abram's call and its result, and read the chapter for today last. Help the children fix in their minds the relationships of Abram, Sarai, Hagar, and Ishmael.

---
This is a story of the father of the Jewish people. Jews still call themselves "children of Abraham." The Lord founded a new church in the world through Noah and his family and for a time people remembered the covenant of the rainbow and obeyed the Lord. But it did not last.

You know how happy you are when you are being good and everyone is pleased with you. But do you keep on always being good? No; sooner or later you forget and do something you know is naughty. That was just the way it was with the people of that Ancient Church. And they became worse and worse until they were no longer obeying the Lord at all; so they stopped being a church.

Then the Lord called Abraham, a man who was still willing to obey. He lived far to the east in a city called Ur. The Lord told him to leave his home and go to the land of Canaan, and promised that if he would obey, his descendants would become a great nation.

Abraham did obey, and the Lord blessed him in the land of Canaan. He lived in a city called Hebron, and became very rich. There was one thing, however, that Abraham needed which he did not have. What was it?

Who was Abraham's wife?

How did she decide to give Abraham a son?

Who was Hagar?

What did she do that was wrong?

Why did she run away?

Where did the angel of the Lord find her?

What did he tell her to do?

What did he say about her son?

Who was the son of Abraham and Hagar?

In the story in this chapter the names are Abram and Sarai, but later the Lord changed them to Abraham and Sarah, and that is the way we should remember them.

