
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Try to make clear to the young people that Abram, although he is the third in the series of churches, is also the first in a new series of three — Abraham, Isaac, Jacob — all on the natural plane. Our lessons from now on will be interpreted mainly as they apply to our individual development from infancy to adulthood.

---
From chapter 12 of Genesis on, although it continues to be parable, it is also for the most part true history. Historical records other than the Bible go back approximately to the time of Abraham; so we may fairly say that the first eleven chapters of Genesis treat of prehistoric times. From the height of the Most Ancient Church, described by the Garden of Eden before the creation of Eve, down to the fall of the Ancient Church, described in the story of the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1-9), we find people becoming less and less spiritual, and more and more external and worldly. The first church was a celestial church, the second a spiritual church, and the third — described by Eber (Genesis 11:14) - a natural church. We shall find presently that in the descendants of Abraham this third church gradually lost all interior understanding until in the church set up among the children of Jacob or Israel it was no longer anything but the "representative of a church," because it had no spiritual life within it.

The Ancient Church declined and fell as a result of the growth of the "pride of self-intelligence." Its people had had great wisdom, but after a time they began to forget that all their wisdom was a gift from the Lord. They had understood correspondences and developed a worship in which they used images of natural things to remind them of the spiritual things which they signified. But in time they forgot the spiritual significance and began to worship the images themselves. So they became idolaters, and all the idolatrous religions with which we are familiar in the world today are perverted remains of the Ancient Church.

While there were still, however, a few left who, although they worshiped idols, still were sincere in their desire to obey God instead of depending on themselves, the Lord called Abram to leave his home in Ur of the Chaldees and go to the land of Canaan and reestablish there the worship of the one God. Abram was chosen because he was willing to be obedient even at great cost to himself. He obeyed without question.

In our lives we may think of the Most Ancient and Ancient churches as picturing our inherited background, and of Abram as representing our early childlike obedience to the Lord. But we soon begin to grow up as independent individuals and, just as the early people wanted a life of their own, so in the literal Bible story Abram wanted a son of his own. Children always picture new developments: sons, truths; and daughters, goods or affections.

Abram's first son, however, was not to be his heir, because he was not the son of Abram's true wife Sarai. This is a very interesting story. In the letter Abram and Sarai do wrong as we see it. The early people in the Adamic and Noachic churches knew that a man should have only one wife at a time, but by the time of Abram this truth, along with many others, had been lost. Thus Abram and Sarai were innocent in their wrongdoing and the Lord did not hold it against them; but still there were evil consequences. The same law holds today. We are not held responsible by the Lord in His mercy for evils we commit ignorantly, if our ignorance is not willful; yet the consequences of our wrong deeds follow inevitably.

In the Bible the various countries picture different planes of life.

Egypt pictures the plane of natural or external knowledge — that is, of memory-knowledge. As women picture affections for different kinds of truth, Hagar, the Egyptian servant, pictures the affection for natural or memory knowledges. Our first efforts to produce ideas and works of our own are often the offspring of purely natural affections. The ideas so produced are never truly spiritual. So Ishmael, the son of Abram and Hagar, was to be a "wild man," or, as the original Hebrew says, a "wild—donkey man." When we are young, our affections cling to external satisfactions and we reason from these external things. We are always sure we are right and are likely to laugh at our parents and teachers, just as both Hagar and later Ishmael despised and laughed at those higher than they.

Hagar represents an external, natural type of affection. Ishmael represents our youthful reasonings. Hagar's pride drives her into the wilderness. Our state of mind at this time is very like a wilderness, with no regular paths, no fixed abode, no cultivated food. Yet even here we find water. The Lord shows us the truth in our time of need, and His angel, or messenger, the Word, tells us to go back and submit ourselves humbly to those who are wiser than we, and all will be well with us.

The great fault of our first reasoning power is pride. No matter how bright and clever we are, we always need to look to the Lord for guidance, or we are really lost in a wilderness. And in trouble and temptation the Lord is very close to us and ready to show us the way home as soon as we really acknowledge our need.

