
=== Intermediate

Here again the teaching concerning marriage should be stressed as a preparation for later instruction. The general lesson of the chapter can be brought out through the correspondence of Judea and of little children. Also, one of the unpleasant traits characteristic of the Intermediate age is the tendency to "know it all," and this is a good lesson in which to point out and suggest the foolishness of that fault.

We should note at the beginning of our chapter that the Lord has come down into Judea. In the Lord's time, we remember, the Holy Land was divided into three general regions: Galilee in the north, Judea in the south, and Samaria between them in the center. Just as in the time of the divided kingdom in the Old Testament story, Judah represents the will and Israel the understanding in the man of the church, so now Judea represents the will and Samaria the understanding; Galilee pictures the outward life or conduct. The center of worship was in Jerusalem in Judea, and the Lord was born in Bethlehem of Judea. This pictures that in a truly good person worship must spring from the will or heart. But we have to make our outward conduct right if the Lord is really to rule in our lives, and this is a long, slow process; so the Lord was brought up in Nazareth of Galilee, and most of His ministry was in Galilee. And in everything we do we have to use our minds. We have to think if we are to worship the Lord truly in our hearts, and we have to think if we are to carry out the Lord's commandments in our conduct. So Samaria lay between Judea and Galilee and was crossed in going from one to the other.

Most of the Lord's teaching which we have studied so far was given in Galilee, especially in Capernaum near the Sea of Galilee; so it has been chiefly concerned with what we should do. Now we are in Judea and the teaching in our chapter is concerned with how we should feel — what our hearts should be like.

You know that often you do what you know you ought to do when down in your heart you want to do just the opposite. This was what the Pharisees did. They made a great show of obeying every little clause in the law when at heart they did not love goodness at all but were selfish and covetous and domineering. So as soon as the Lord entered Judea, they were right there "tempting him" again, trying to find some cause for condemning Him. This time they asked Him about marriage and divorce. They were making an excuse of a single verse of the law of Moses (Deuteronomy 24:1) to do things they wanted to do, that is, to divorce their wives when they felt like it. Even that one verse, when we read it carefully, does not say what they pretended it said, and the Lord's answer reminded them that the law of Moses also contained a statement which forbade the interpretation they were giving to the verse in Deuteronomy. Marriage is meant to be permanent. If the husband and wife both want to obey the Lord, they will not be separated but will become more and more united as the years pass.

The very next incident in our chapter shows us just what we really need in marriage as in everything else. It is to look to the Lord, trust in Him, and be guided by Him in all things just as little children depend upon their parents. In the Word little children always represent innocence. The literal meaning of innocence is "not harming" and we know that all the harmful things we do come from selfishness in our hearts. So innocence involves not trusting in ourselves or wanting our own way, but letting the Lord direct us. Swedenborg says innocence is "a willingness to be led by the Lord."

Now see how this teaching is illustrated in the next story in our chapter. When the rich young man came to the Lord and asked, "Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?" he thought of the Lord as merely an unusual man, probably a prophet, to whom many people were going for advice. The very first thing the Lord pointed out to him was that there is no genuine goodness except in God. The young man did not really want to acknowledge the Lord as God because he wanted to leave himself free to accept or reject His advice. The people today who refuse to believe that Christ is God do so really for this very reason. They, like the rich young man, are quite willing to lead orderly external lives, to obey the commandments. They have been brought up to do so and like to be respected and praised. But when the Lord asks something of them which will mean a real sacrifice, a real giving up of their pride in their own goodness and wisdom, they are not willing to follow Him.

The "trust in riches" which the Lord condemns is not just trust in money, but trust in one's own goodness and wisdom. This keeps people out of heaven, because in heaven everyone knows that only the Lord is good and wise, and so everyone there is like a little child depending on the Lord as his heavenly Father.

The apostles still did not understand this. Like the Pharisees, external correctness seemed important to them, and they wanted credit for themselves and rewards of an external and visible kind. We see this clearly in verses 28 to 41 of our chapter. But they, unlike the Pharisees, at heart wanted to be good. So the Lord could teach them that happiness is not in getting but in giving, not in ruling but in serving. We can know from our Easter lesson that they still did not really understand, but they saw enough to wish to follow the Lord still.

This is what is pictured by the miracle with which our chapter closes. Blindness represents ignorance of spiritual truth. Sight, which is understanding, can be given only through faith in the Lord — that same innocence of which we have been thinking. Blind Bartimaeus had that faith and so the Lord could give him sight. And we should note that he proved his faith. When the Lord said to him, "Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole," he chose to go the Lord's way.

