
=== Notes for Parents

We parents are probably more conscious than others are of the seriousness of the increasing rate of divorce and of juvenile delinquency in our country, but we do not always realize that the two evils are closely allied and come from the same source. Our chapter for today shows us what that source is and the only way in which these evils can be overcome.

What does the Lord mean when He says, "Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein"? The kingdom of God is the rule of the Lord in the heart and mind, not just after death, but while we are living in this world. A little child receives everything from his parents without question, believing in his parents' wisdom and trusting his parents to take care of him. The Lord is our heavenly Father, all-wise and all-powerful. We are still His children, and we should believe what He tells us and trust in Him just as our children, when they are little, believe in and trust us.

In this chapter the Lord tells us several things which we need to believe and to hold in our thoughts:

1. He tells us that marriage should not be broken. If we recognize marriage as a sacred covenant which enables the husband and wife to serve the Lord together as one, developing increasing unselfishness through their love for each other and for their children, our marriage will be blessed with increasing happiness and peace.

2. He tells us that children should be brought to Him for blessing. We should see to it that our children are brought up in the knowledge of the Lord and His laws, so that they will be true citizens of the kingdom of heaven.

3. He tells us that we should not only obey the commandments but should also believe that to follow Him is more important than any possessions or position we may have in this world.

4. He tells us that to be of use to others is true greatness, as His own example showed. We can all be of use, whether we are rich or poor, learned or ignorant; so we can all be truly great if we choose. The only thing that stands in the way of our success in marriage, in bringing up our children, in living a useful life, is selfishness. If we can put away our thoughts of self-interest and self-importance and look to the Lord for guidance and strength, as little children look to their parents, we shall be blessed and happy receivers of the kingdom of heaven.

