
=== Primary

At this age level the desire to make a name for oneself appears in the childish tendency to "show off." The story may be made the beginning of developing in the children an objective attitude toward their own conduct which we all need to cultivate as early as possible.

These children can see in a simple way the meaning of the confusion of tongues. Be sure they learn the name Babel and its meaning.

This story took place long after the time of Cain and Abel. Many generations of people had come and gone, but people were still living in the same part of the world in which the Lord had put them in the beginning. They had learned a great deal since the first simple times, and they had come to think themselves very wise. But you know that people who think themselves wise are sometimes not wise at all, because wisdom is not in having a great deal of knowledge but in using the knowledge we have as the Lord wants us to use it.

Let us read a story about these people, and as we read it, see if you can find some things in it which show how foolish they really were. [Read Genesis 11:1-9.]

In the first place, they were foolish to imagine that they could build something that would reach heaven, weren't they? Then they were foolish to begin in a low valley instead of on a mountain top. And finally they were foolish to use anything but the best materials.

What did they use to build the tower?

Of what should they have built it?

They were very silly, weren't they? But you see they were not trying to do something good and useful, but just to make a name for themselves; that is, they were trying to "show off," as we say. Do you ever try to show off? People who do are apt to do things which are very foolish. Instead of making other people admire them, they usually get into trouble.

How did the Lord stop them?

Today we use the word Babel to mean confusion.

When people are thinking only about themselves, they cannot work together. They do not understand each other.

Selfishness and conceit separate people just as the Lord scattered the people of Babel.

Something like this happens to you sometimes. When you are playing with another child and each of you wants to have his own way, neither of you can understand why the other does not agree with him. You fall to quarreling and go off home. The pleasure you might have had together is spoiled. This is what always comes of thinking we are wiser than everyone else.

