
=== Primary

Begin with the Easter story very briefly, then read the lesson from the Word, and then tell briefly the events of the rest of the chapter so that the children will know of the Ascension. Stress the Lord's presence with us even though we do not see Him. Point out the opening of the Word and make the connection with the Second Coming.

What did we celebrate on Easter Sunday?

Who were the first to learn that the Lord had risen? 

What did the apostles think of the women's story? 

When did the events of our lesson for today take place? 

Where were the two disciples going?

Emmaus was a little over six miles from Jerusalem. What were the two disciples talking about?

Who came and walked with them?

Why did they not recognize Him?

When they told Him why they were sad, what did He say? 

How did He explain these things to them?

What were they doing when they finally recognized Him?

When the Lord vanished from their sight, the two disciples went right back to Jerusalem and told the apostles about the wonderful thing that had happened to them, and while they were talking about it, suddenly there was the Lord again standing in the midst of them, and this time they all saw Him and talked with Him.

They were afraid because they thought He was a ghost.

But He proved to them that it was He Himself.

He showed them, as He had showed the two disciples on the way to Emmaus, the inner meaning of the Scriptures, and how the books of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms taught about Him.

The Lord was seen from time to time by different people during the following month. Finally one day, when the Lord had gone out with the disciples to Bethany, the little village where Mary and Martha and Lazarus lived, they saw Him ascend into heaven. So then they were sure of two things, one that the Lord really was, as He had told them, God Himself come into the world, and the other that, even when they could not see Him, they could know that He was always close to them. The Gospel of Matthew tells us that one of the last things He said to them was, "Lo, I am with you always." We can know both of these things, too, and we should think of them often. Hundreds of years later the Lord opened the understanding of Emanuel Swedenborg to see these same things in the Word and had him write them down, so that now we may all know them if we want to.

