
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What did the spies bring back from the Holy Land? fruit

Primary: What good things did they report about the land? fertile, beautiful

Primary: What bad things did they report? giants, walled cities

Junior: What did ten of the spies advise? "We are not able ... "

Junior: What did the other two say? "We are well able ... "

Primary: Who were the two spies who trusted in the Lord? Caleb, Joshua

Junior: Which advice did the people take? that of the ten

Junior: What was the result? 38 years more in desert

Junior: How long altogether did they wander in the wilderness? 40 years

Junior: What was their last encampment before they entered the Holy Land? Plain of Moab

Primary: When Moses died, who became the leader of the Israelites? Joshua

Junior: What do you remember about Joshua from earlier lessons? good spy, army leader

Junior: What was the Lord's charge to Joshua? "Be strong and of a good courage"

Junior: What tribes were given homes east of the Jordan? Reuben, Gad, half Manasseh

Junior: What were the men of these tribes to do before they settled down? help others fight

Intermediate: What does entering the Holy Land mean? beginning regeneration

Senior: What is the difference in correspondence between (1) Moses, and (2) Joshua? (1) law obeyed
(2) truth fighting

Senior: What is the difference between (1) reformation, and (2) regeneration? (1) putting outer life in order, and (2) getting a new will from the Lord

== CROSSING THE JORDAN — Joshua 3-4

The transition to this lesson is easily made through emphasis on the unwillingness of the Israelites to obey the Lord as the cause of their long stay in the wilderness. The lesson to be drawn from this is an obvious one for all classes. Then Joshua may be used as the actual connecting link, recalling his leadership of the fighting men throughout the wilderness journey and the story of the spies (Numbers 13-14), in which Joshua and Caleb alone trusted the Lord and gave wise counsel.

