
=== Intermediate

The general correspondence of the whole story should be given, with emphasis on the meaning of Achan's trespass and the meaning of the ambush. Call attention to the setting up of the stones and celebration of the Passover at Gilgal and the setting up of the altar and reading of the law at Shechem.

Joshua obeyed the Lord. His obedience was immediately tested in the story of the crossing of the Jordan. The river was at flood, but the people were not to travel north to one of the fords. They were to go straight into the water. As soon as the foot of the first priest touched the brink of the river, the waters parted before them, just as the waters of the Red Sea had parted, and they went through on dry ground. The priests with the ark stood still in the middle of the river bed until all the people had passed over. Twelve men, one chosen from each tribe, picked up one stone each from the midst of the river bed, and when they reached the other side the stones were set up as a memorial of their crossing. They also celebrated the Passover at this time, and the manna ceased. They named the place Gilgal, which means "rolling," because the Lord told Joshua (Joshua 5:9) that on this day He had "rolled away the reproach of Egypt" from them. Then follows the familiar story of the taking of Jericho, when by simple and exact obedience to the Lord they were enabled to conquer without fighting at all, because the Lord caused the walls to fall down. The walled cities they found in the Holy Land represent false ideas which have grown up in our minds as the result of our natural selfishness. The Lord's truth is able to overcome those false ideas if we will obey it. In the conquest of Jericho, however, one man disobeyed part of the Lord's command. The Israelites had been told (Joshua 6:18-19) not to take from the city anything for themselves. Everything was to be destroyed except the silver and gold and the vessels of brass and iron, and these were to be consecrated to the service of the Lord. It takes us a long time to realize that we must try to obey the Lord wholly. We can see that some of our faults are really bad and should be corrected, but there are always some that we feel are excusable — they bring us so much pleasure. Sometimes we are even proud of some fault. Perhaps you have heard someone say, "Oh, I have a terrible temper!" as if it made him important. In other words, we tend to keep the faults we really like, although we sometimes try to hide them. This is what Achan's sin pictures.

Jericho was down near the level of the river and pictures some evil in us which is obvious to us as soon as we begin to examine ourselves; so we are willing to accept the Lord's commands and try hard to get rid of it. But the next city in the way of the Israelites, Ai, was different. It was up in the hills near Bethel. You remember that Abram, when he first came into the Holy Land, built an altar at Shechem in the center of the land and then went on and built another altar near Bethel, between Bethel and Hai. (Hai [KJV] is the Ai of our story today.) Bethel, where Jacob had his dream of the way of steps leading to heaven, means "house of God." It pictures our knowledge of spiritual things; it is in this knowledge that the Lord dwells in our minds. Ai, its companion city, pictures our knowledge of natural things. In our story Ai is inhabited by the enemy, which means that we have been using our knowledge of natural things selfishly, so that instead of helping us on our way to Bethel it stands in our way. The spies whom Joshua sent out reported that Ai was not a strong city and that the whole army would not be needed to take it, and the small army that Joshua sent against it was promptly put to rout. When, with the Lord's help, we have won the first victory over our temptations, we sometimes become overconfident and imagine we are going straight ahead victoriously without any further thought or self-examination.

We think we know enough, not realizing that some of the things we know may be a hindrance to us instead of a help. When the next temptation comes, we form a "snap judgment" as to what we ought to do, and we are defeated. We are liable, like Joshua, to be discouraged by this setback, but the Lord tells us, just as He told Joshua, that the trouble is in ourselves and that we must not give up because of it. We must examine ourselves more deeply to see just where we have done wrong. The true process of self-examination is vividly described in the story of the finding of the sinner Achan by lot. To decide anything by lot is to let the Lord's truth be the judge; that is, to judge ourselves according to the truths of the Word. And we should do this systematically, first thinking of our general principles and gradually getting down to particular wrong things we may have been feeling and thinking, and rooting them out. Achan's hiding the forbidden things in the earth of his tent is a picture of how such secret evils may be hidden at the very center of our life. When they are destroyed, we can return to the attack. This time we shall put our whole strength into it and if we are wise, we shall, like Joshua, plan to use some of our "men" as a reserve on the side toward Bethel; that is, we shall realize that our real power comes from our knowledge of spiritual things and try to apply this knowledge. We notice that the spoil of Ai could be taken; it did not have to be destroyed or devoted to the formal service of the Lord. This is because our natural knowledges in themselves are good and can be useful if we do not pride ourselves on them or use them selfishly.

The building of the altar at Shechem, Abraham's first stopping place in the Holy Land, and the rehearsing there of the law with its blessings and cursings remind us that no matter what victories we win we need over and over again to return to the "little child" state of humility and worship, and to keep the commandments always before us as the laws of life.

