
=== Notes for Parents

Most people know the story of the fall of Jericho, the first city which the Israelites took in the Holy Land — how they marched around the city led by the priests bearing the ark until, on the seventh day, the walls of the city fell without a blow having been struck. The victory was given to them in this way to teach them beyond a doubt that it was the Lord who gave them victory and that obedience to His commands would always result in success.

Not so many know the story of the capture of Ai, the next city, but it is given in the Bible to teach the same lesson from another point of view — the failure which results from disobedience and the need of being sure that we obey the Lord wholly and do not try to hold onto any of our favorite sins. This is a temptation we all have. We are willing to get rid of the faults in ourselves which are obvious and which we can see stand in the way of our success. But we cannot see just why the Lord tells us that some other things we do are wrong and must be given up; they "look good" to us, and we try to enjoy them in secret even if we give them up openly. This is like Achan's taking some of the forbidden spoils of Jericho.

People often cannot see why Achan's family should have been destroyed when only Achan was the offender. There are many places in the Bible where it says the Lord commanded the destruction of apparently innocent people just because they were connected with someone who was evil. People in those days were cruel, and we saw in the story of Abraham's sacrifice how the Lord's truth took on the forms of thought of the person to whom it came. We ourselves do not kill a criminal's family, but we sometimes are equally cruel to them in other ways. In the Bible the Lord used the things in people's minds to illustrate lessons. The family is a picture of all the things which spring from some desire or affection and its corresponding thought. For example, when we have an evil desire — perhaps the desire to hurt someone — all the thoughts and feelings which come from it are bad. So when we recognize that our desire is evil and decide to get rid of it, we must also try to get rid of all the thoughts and feelings which have come from it; this is symbolized by Achan's family in the story. We need to remember that everything in the Word is a picture of something in us, and that all the wars and battles and killings are pictures of the struggles which we have with the enemies within our own souls. We must not, as Joshua at first did, blame the Lord for our failures. Our real enemies are within ourselves. This is what the Lord means when he says, "A man's foes shall be they of his own household." (Matthew 10:36)

