
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a particularly good lesson for children of this age because it is a "difficult" age when children are apt to be especially irritating and parents find them hard to take. The Sunday school teacher can help a great deal by showing an understanding of how the children feel and putting into their minds thoughts which will help them toward self-control. The pupils' notes on the lesson have been written with this in mind.

---
The last twelve books of the Old Testament, Hosea to Malachi, are called the Minor Prophets. They are short books — Obadiah has only one chapter — and in the days when the Old Testament was preserved on parchment scrolls they were all written on one scroll. The visions and prophecies which they record were given over a period of about four hundred years, from the time of Uzziah king of Judah, the third king before Hezekiah, until about a hundred and fifty years after the first return from captivity. This means from about 800 B.C. to 400 B.C. Jonah, Hosea, and Amos prophesied in Israel, and Amos also prophesied in Judah. The others all spoke to the people of Judah. Obadiah's prophecy is believed to have been given during the captivity. Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi prophesied after the return.

Several of them were contemporaries and also contemporary with one or more of the Major Prophets. We know that there were many prophets all through the history of the children of Israel. We read in several places of "companies" of prophets, and in the Benedictus (which we sometimes sing), it is stated, "As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began." So we are not to suppose that the Lord has spoken to mankind only through those prophets whose names we find in the Word. But we may rightly assume that the message of all those other prophets was a message given by the Lord just to help the people to whom it was originally spoken, while the visions and prophecies recorded in the Word are for all people in all times. So it is not particularly important for us to know just when these Minor Prophets lived or just what they themselves and the people of their time thought their words meant. What is important is to find out what they mean for us.

Joel is one of those whose message describes something that happens to people over and over again, something that may happen to us if we do not take care.

Did you ever have a day when everything seemed to go wrong, and your mother finally said, "I guess you must have gotten up on the wrong side of the bed this morning"? There was more truth in what she said than you think. Look back over such a day and see what really happened. Perhaps you didn't want to get up; so you were cross. Because you were cross, you were impatient and perhaps you tore something when you were dressing and had to stop and find something else to put on. So you were still crosser when you came downstairs and you found fault with your breakfast and wasted so much time fussing about it that you were almost late for school and forgot to take your homework along. So it went on all day, and all the while you were blaming other people for the things that were happening instead of seeing that it was your own cross, selfish feelings that were spoiling your day. Each mistake made things a little worse. Listen to what Joel says (Joel 1:4): "That which the palmerworm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that which the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten." Each little cross feeling was like a destructive insect eating away at the good, happy feelings you might have been enjoying.

Joel tells us that if we let such things go on in us, there will come a time when it is too late for us to change. Perhaps you know some elderly person who is always cross and disagreeable. No one likes him and he is not at all happy, but he has become so used to being what he is and to blaming other people for everything that happens to him that he no longer wants to be any different. Do you suppose he was always that way? No; once he was a dear little baby and then an innocent little child. But sometime or other he began to let his selfish feelings grow. Perhaps he got up on the wrong side of the bed one morning and just let himself keep on going from bad to worse until now he cannot change. When he dies, he will not be able to enjoy heavenly happiness, because he has lost the ability to be unselfish.

Joel calls the time when the final separation between the good and the evil is made "the day of the Lord." Read Mark 13:32-37. Some people think of the "day of the Lord" as meaning only the day when the Lord was born into the world. That was indeed a day of judgment. But we should notice that even at that time it was not the Lord who judged the people: they judged themselves. The ones who had remained loving and unselfish welcomed the Lord and followed Him. Those who had lost all interest in anything but themselves hated and crucified Him.

The "day of the Lord" comes for each one of us when we finish our life in this world, and we need to remember that every day each of us is forming himself into the kind of person he will be forever. So in a sense every day is a day of the Lord. The part of the third chapter of Joel which we have for our lesson starts with a "call to arms." What it means is that we should look at ourselves honestly and recognize the faults that are threatening our happiness, and fight them now while we can. For selfishness and good cannot live together. If we choose the good each day, the Lord can be with us and lead us to happiness, but He cannot make the choice for us. Read verse 14. We are the multitudes. The valley of decision is our everyday life. And the day of the Lord is always near in the valley of decision.

