
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class do more with the facts that are known concerning the Minor Prophets and with the general characteristics of the prophetic function. The lesson in Joel 3:14 is important.

---
The last twelve books in the Old Testament are called the "Minor" Prophets. This is because they are very short books. Obadiah has only one chapter — and the whole twelve were written on one scroll. Several of them are records of a single vision or prophecy each, but in some there are prophecies extending over a considerable period of time. All of them make the definite claim to inspiration and have always been so accepted.

Some of the Minor Prophets date and place themselves, giving the names of the kings of Israel or Judah in whose reign the prophecies were given. Others do not. Scholars have differed as to the time of these undated books, but the order in which they were originally placed, which is the same in our Bibles, is felt by many to be substantially correct with the exception of the book of Obadiah, which is believed to belong to the period of the captivity. Hosea, Amos, and Jonah were prophets in Israel and Amos also prophesied in Judah. The first three and Jonah were contemporaries, living in the period around 800 B.C. The last three, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, prophesied in Judah after the return from captivity. Haggai, especially, was the prophet who urged completing the rebuilding of the temple. Several of the Minor Prophets were given messages concerning the coming of the Messiah. The fourth chapter of Malachi, the last chapter in the Old Testament, is such a prophecy. We shall refer to it when we begin the study of the Gospel of Mark.

The prophet Joel, from whose book we are taking our assignment for today, is believed to have lived in Judah in the time of king Uzziah, who was the third king before Hezekiah. Joel, like all the other prophets, was sent to point out the sins into which the people had fallen. Read the first four verses of the first chapter. Now read Matthew 6:19 and Mark 9:43-44, 47-48. You see the Lord Himself spoke in the same language in which Joel spoke, pointing out to us that our many little selfish desires and wrong thoughts are just like destructive insects which eat up the good things in us and finally, if we let them have their way, destroy all our possibilities for heavenly character.

After this, like the other prophets, Joel is given a promise of restoration for the good. Read chapter 2:21-32. This is a famous passage, especially because part of it was quoted by the Apostle Peter (Acts 2:16-21) on the day of Pentecost when the Apostles were given the "gift of tongues."

In the part of the third chapter which we have taken for our lesson, Joel shows the people just what the coming of the Messiah will mean to every individual. The prophecy was fulfilled when Christ came into the world. The selfish and evil found His coming a great threat, and they crucified His physical body, hoping in that way to get rid of Him. But the good, who longed for the truth to teach them how to live rightly, found in Him their full satisfaction and joy.

Do you think this all happened a long time ago and doesn't have anything to do with us? Do you think the Lord provided for the preservation of certain inspired prophecies just as a record of the history of one particular nation? We should know better. All the prophecies recorded in the Bible are messages from the Lord to people of all nations and times, and so they are messages to us. Read verse 14 of our chapter. Everyone of us is in the valley of decision every day of our lives in this world. Every day we have choices to make, choices between doing what we know is right and letting our natural selfish feelings govern our words and deeds. And when we are facing these choices, it may help us to choose rightly if we remember that the Lord is always at hand to help us if we look to Him. Choosing what is right from day to day and from hour to hour is the only way to make progress toward the sunshine of heavenly life. The "day of the Lord" is always near us in the valley of decision.

