
=== Notes for Parents

We are all familiar with the Lord's command in the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 6:20): "Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." And the Gospel of Mark (Mark 9:45-46) describes hell as a place "where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched." In the New Church we believe that hell—fire is not a physical fire but the same fire that, as we sometimes say, "burns us up" when we are angry and resentful because we think we have been injured. And the worm that does not die is the same worm that is at work when we say, for example, that someone is just "eaten up" with jealousy. We all know that a person really can let little petty jealousies, or selfish indulgences, or feelings of resentment eat into his soul until there is nothing left there of kindness or unselfishness or happiness. That is what the Lord means when He says through the prophet Joel (Joel 1:4):

"That which the palmerworm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that which the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten."

The twelve books of the Minor Prophets, the last twelve books of the Old Testament, are very short, but they are full of practical lessons for us, once we realize that in them the Lord is speaking to us and not just to a nation and time of long ago.

Joel warns us that the "day of the Lord," the day of judgment, is sure to come to each one of us, but it is not something far off which we can forget about most of the time. We are making our own judgment day by day as we choose to be selfish or unselfish, kind or unkind, proud or humble in the little affairs of everyday life. Every day is judgment day, for every day we are forming the character which we are going to keep to eternity. So Joel tells us to fight these enemies within ourselves now. He says: "Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears: let the weak say, I am strong." And he is describing all of us as we are every day when he says: "Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision."

This last verse is a good one for all of us to learn and remember.

Teach it to the children and tell them what it means, and then whenever you see them hesitating, trying to decide whether to be good or naughty — and we do often see that in them, and in ourselves too — just remind them: "The day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision." When you say that, because it is a verse from the Word the Lord is speaking through you to the child and the effect is much greater than if you used your own words.

