
=== Primary

Begin by reminding the children of our lesson about the apostles and what the word apostle means. This leads directly into the actual sending out of the twelve and so into the story for today. Be sure they know what the Word miracle means. For this class the story of the death of John the Baptist may be omitted; if included, tell the children how and why he was put to death. Then take up the sending out of the apostles as an introduction to the miracle. If you have time at the end of the period tell them how soon the apostles forgot the wonderful power they had seen exercised, and read them the last part of the chapter, emphasizing verse 52.

You remember that out of all the people who followed the Lord and listened to His teaching — all His disciples, or "learners" - He chose twelve men who came to be called apostles, which means those "sent forth," because they were sent forth by the Lord to preach and to heal in His name. He sent them out by twos, telling them not to take any money or extra clothing, but to go from village to village and stay in the home of anyone who would welcome them and listen to them. They obeyed Him and found that all He had promised them came true.

Read the instructions He gave them in verses 8-11.

Then we are told how King Herod put John the Baptist to death. What can you remember about John the Baptist?

Herod did not want to kill him because he believed him to be a prophet. But Herod had made a foolish promise. Read about it in verses 21-28. We should never make careless promises.

What did Herod think when he heard about the Lord's miracles? Read verse 16. When the apostles came back to the Lord to report their success, He took them into a desert place to rest.

Who followed them there?

When the day was over, what did the apostles want the Lord to do with the people?

What did the Lord tell the disciples to do?

What food did they have on hand?

How many people were there to be fed?

What did the Lord have the people do?

What did He do with the five loaves and two fishes?

After everyone had eaten, how many baskets of fragments did they take up?

This was a miracle. A miracle is a wonderful thing done by the Lord's power. You know that the Lord made everything. He made the grain out of which the five loaves of bread were baked, and He made the fishes. So of course He could make more and more as fast as they were needed by the people. We should always remember that it is really the Lord who gives us our food. That is why we thank Him whenever we sit down to a meal. And when you are older, you will understand that there are other kinds of food which the Lord gives us — food for our minds and food for our souls - which are much more important than the food for our bodies.

Remember this when you say every day in the Lord's Prayer, "Give us this day our daily bread."

