
=== Adult

The most obvious topics for discussion are the relationship of reformation to regeneration and the progression from natural delight to spiritual good, as pictured by the quails and manna. The latter discussion will be helped by pointing out the contrast offered by the story of the second sending of the quails in Numbers 11. Note also the complaint of the people in Numbers 21:5 just before the plague of fiery serpents.

---
The wilderness journey of the Israelites pictures, as we know, the period of reformation. This, as the writings frequently tell us, is the state in which we make ourselves do what we know we should do, not because we love to do it but simply because it is commanded by the Lord. There is much of self in this obedience.

The final plague not only convinced Pharaoh that he must let the children of Israel go, but also convinced the Israelites that they must break their Egyptian bondage at all costs and start at once for their true home in Canaan. The Passover feast, celebrated then for the first time, was to be repeated annually to remind them of their deliverance, just as the Lord at His last Passover feast on earth instituted the Holy Supper and commanded His disciples, "This do in remembrance of me." When we take the Holy Supper, we pray that it may be to us "the sign and seal" that we are the Lord's children. The decision to leave Egypt represents the decision which everyone who is to be regenerated must make of his own free will sooner or later: the decision to turn his back on worldliness and self-indulgence and to set his face toward the achievement of spiritual life. This decision is the essential first step, but it is only the beginning.

We may remember from an earlier lesson on creation Swedenborg's statement in @AC 13 in connection with men's progress toward regeneration: "The greatest part at this day attain only the first state; some only the second; others the third, fourth, or fifth; few the sixth; and scarcely anyone the seventh." Regeneration is a lifelong process. This should not discourage us. It should rather lead us to look upon each day we are granted in this world as an opportunity to grow a little further toward the angelic stature which is possible for us. We know that the process of growth is not continuous. The wilderness story is a picture of the temptations, failures, hardships, and rebellions which attend our efforts to bring even our outward lives into order. And after the children of Israel reached the Holy Land there were still wars, back-slidings, and defeats. But the story is also a picture of the wonderful way in which the Lord leads and supports us, accommodating His providence to our changing states, and giving us victories and times of rest and refreshment for our encouragement all along the way.

Our story for today illustrates this constant presence and providence of the Lord. The children of Israel had come into a state in which they were looking back with longing at the external enjoyments which they had left behind, and forgetting the hardships of the bondage from which they had escaped. The Lord did not permit this state to lead to an actual turning back. He sent a new type of food to satisfy their craving for the "flesh pots" of Egypt.

Again we are reminded of the Creation story in which each day is described as advancing from evening to morning. In giving us the correspondence of the quail and manna in @AC 8426[2] Swedenborg writes:

That "in the evening" denotes the end of a former state, is because the changes of state in the other life are circumstanced as are the times of day in the world, namely, morning, noon, evening, and night, or twilight, and again morning. Be it known that in the spiritual world there are perpetual changes of state, and that all who are there pass through them. The reason is that they may be continually succeeding one another in order like the times of the day and the times of the year, never return quite the same, but are varied. The beginning of every state corresponds to morning on the earth, and also in the Word is sometimes meant by "morning"; but the end of every state corresponds to evening, and is likewise sometimes called "evening" in the Word. When it is morning they are in love; when it is noon, they are in light or in truth; but when it is evening they are in obscurity as to truths, and are in the delight of natural love. This delight is what is signified by the quail which they received in the evening, and the good is what is signified by the manna which they received every morning.

In our story the quail represent "natural delight through which is good." When we are not yet in states in which we can feel unselfish happiness in truth and goodness, we are permitted to feel satisfaction of a natural kind — that is, satisfaction in which there is a sense of self-merit — in doing right, because this encourages us to continue in the right path. We should compare this story, however, with the story in Numbers 11:10-23, 31-34, in which the quail were again sent and the result was disastrous because the people ate too greedily. We cannot safely remain long in any delight which smacks of self-righteousness. So our story shows us how divine providence leads us day by day, meeting our changing states with the kind of spiritual food which we can receive, and strengthening us to continue. We see immediately the connection between the instructions for gathering the manna and our daily petition, "Give us this day our daily bread." We cannot gather enough spiritual food on Sunday morning to last us all week. We need to go to the Word and pray daily, because we change from day to day and the problems of each day are different from those of the day before.

The manna which came down with the dew in the morning represents "the good of truth in its first formation." A helpful discussion of this is found in @AC 8462 with reference to the people's calling the new gift from the Lord "manna": "That this signifies amazement at what was not known, is evident from the fact that the word 'manna' in its own tongue means What? thus, that which is not known. That from this the bread that was given to the sons of Israel in the wilderness was called 'manna,' is because this bread signifies the good of charity that is begotten through the truth of faith. Before regeneration this good is quite unknown to man, and it is not even known that it exists."

In an addition to the memorable relation in @TCR 695, which we find in Posthumous Theological Works, Vol. 1, p. 152 (also in Document 302 of Tafel's Documents Concerning Swedenborg), we read: "I told them further that they should know that the miracles which are recorded in the Word likewise took place by an influx out of the prior into the posterior world, and that they were produced by an introduction of such things as are in the spiritual world in corresponding things in the natural world; e.g. that the manna which every morning descended upon the camp of the children of Israel, was produced by bread from heaven being introduced into the recipient vessels of nature; that in like manner bread and fishes were thus introduced into the baskets of the apostles, which they distributed to so many thousands of men; again, that wine out of heaven was instilled into the water in the pots at the wedding where the Lord was present; further, that the fig—tree withered, because there was no longer any influx into it of spiritual nutriment, by which it was fed from the roots." So we see that the manna was actually, as it is called in Psalm 78:25, "angels' food."

