
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the quail and especially of the manna and the directions for its gathering make a simple, practical lesson for this class. It should be covered briefly enough so that time may be left for at least the statement of the doctrine of repentance, reformation, and regeneration which is involved in the beginning of the wilderness journey.

---
You will remember the institution of the Passover feast at the time of the tenth plague, and how the children of Israel were commanded to eat it girded for their journey, and how the Lord put in the hearts of their Egyptian neighbors to give them "jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment" to help them on their way. You remember also the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea and the first two stops on the farther side, when at Marah they were taught how to make the bitter waters sweet, and were rested and refreshed at the oasis of Elim. And you remember that they were being led by the pillar of cloud and fire.

From Elim they were led southward parallel to the sea, with sandy hills between them and the sea and higher rocky hills to their left. It was a dry and desolate way, and they began to complain and look back longingly to the "flesh pots" of Egypt. It does not take very much hardship sometimes to make us forget our blessings and our trust in the Lord.

But the Lord is indeed "long-suffering and plenteous in mercy."

He promised Moses that He would give the people "in the evening flesh to eat, and in the morning bread to the full." You may remember from the first chapter in Genesis that evening pictures a state of waning intelligence and love: and the morning, the dawning of a new understanding. The Lord stands ready to give us the food our souls need in both these states: the quail — the pleasure we get from being praised and thanked for doing right — in our evening states, and the manna — true inward happiness in doing right — with each new beginning of spiritual progress.

The whole story of the manna is a beautiful study in correspondence. The manna came with the dew in the morning. Genuine good from the Lord, which is our spiritual bread, comes as we try to learn and apply particular truths from the Word. In Psalm 78, verse 25, the manna is called "angels' food," and Swedenborg tells us that it actually was angels' food given a material substance so that it might nourish the Israelites, just as divine good has to be embodied for us in concrete acts. The Israelites called it manna, which means "what is it?" People do not know what is meant by spiritual good until they have actually tasted it. Spiritual good — which Swedenborg calls the "good of truth" — is a heartfelt delight in practicing the truths we learn from the Word.

The manna had to be gathered every day and in quantity only sufficient for that day's eating. In the Lord's Prayer we say, "Give us this day our daily bread." We cannot absorb enough goodness on Sunday to last us all week any more than we can eat enough at one meal to support our bodies all week. Our spiritual strength must be maintained by daily reading of the Word and prayer, and anything we learn and do not use becomes worthless, just as the manna when kept over "bred worms, and stank." Yet the Lord also gives us our sabbaths, regularly recurring states of rest and peace in which we may enjoy what we have already gathered without the conscious effort to gain more.

The children of Israel were fed with the manna for the whole forty years of the wilderness journey, and it ceased when they entered the land of Canaan; for it pictures especially the spiritual food we need while we are struggling with temptations. We should keep in mind that the wilderness journey of the Israelites pictures the period of "reformation."

You know perhaps that some churches believe that one becomes a Christian and is "saved" by a single religious experience called conversion, in which he recognizes that his life has not been good, turns to the Lord and acknowledges Him as his Savior, and expresses his intention of being a Christian. This is not the New Church teaching. Conversion is necessary, but it is only the first step of the way. The word convert means to "turn with," in religion to turn in the direction of the Lord. We know that we are all born with strong tendencies to selfishness and that, if we are to be followers of the Lord, we must at some time — as early in our lives as possible — of our own free choice turn away from self and toward the Lord. In the Bible history of the Israelites, we recognize that their remaining in Egypt after Joseph's death was a yielding to self-indulgence. Their decision to obey the Lord and leave Egypt may be likened to conversion. It was the first necessary step on their way back to the Holy Land. But they had a long, long way to go before they reached their destination, and many trials and hardships to pass through.

In the teachings of our church we often hear this series of words: repentance, reformation, and regeneration. When we really see that we are selfish, are sorry, and determine to change our lives, we repent. When we persist in the effort to put selfishness aside and obey the Lord, we gradually "reform" our lives; that is, we make them over from the selfish pattern in which we have been living into the order in which the Lord would have us live. This is not done in a moment. We often become discouraged and rebellious and slip back. But if we ask the Lord's help and go on again, there comes a time when we find that living in the Lord's way gives us happiness; we have learned to love it. We have entered the Holy Land, which is a picture of regeneration. Regeneration means being born again. We have become new people, children of our heavenly Father.

