
=== Junior

With this class the connection should be made by means of the story of the Passover feast, emphasizing the reason for its being called the Passover. Give the children an opportunity to tell what they remember about the crossing of the Red Sea, the bitter waters of Marah, and the oasis at Elim. In the lesson for today the general correspondence of the manna can be given them. Stress the connection with the Lord's Prayer.

What Christian sacrament did the Lord institute at His last Passover?

After the first Passover the people started in haste on their journey. Moses and Aaron were their leaders, but the Lord gave them another guide also — a pillar of cloud in the daytime and of fire at night — which they were to follow, stopping whenever it stopped and going on when it moved. You remember the story of how the Red Sea was parted by a miracle so that they could cross on foot, and how the Egyptians tried to pursue them and were drowned when the waters closed again.

Then the children of Israel began their journey through the "wilderness" — the Sinai Peninsula. In The Sower we read the following about the country through which they passed: "Sand hills were on their right between them and the sea, and higher rocky hills made a wall upon their left. There were few clouds to shade the sky, and the sun even in spring was very hot. There were also at this season scorching southeast winds full of stifling dust. Rain falls in that country in the winter, but it makes a sudden flood and soon the brook beds are almost dry again." So they found little water and no food, and soon they began again to complain and to blame Moses for taking them out of Egypt. Do you remember what the angels told Lot when they led him out of Sodom, and what happened to Lot's wife? If you do not remember this story, you may read it in Genesis 19:17-26. We all have a tendency, whenever we are called upon to bear any present trouble, to remember only the pleasures we used to have and to forget the difficulties and dangers.

Our lesson for today is about how the Lord fed the children of Israel on their journey.

What did they long for especially?

What kind of meat did the Lord give them?

We are also told in The Sower that quails do not normally live in that country, but that in the spring great flocks of them pass over, migrating from their winter home in Africa, and that since they are not strong fliers they go with the wind and often have to settle down to rest. You may be interested to read in Numbers 11:18-20, 31-34 of a time when the Lord again sent quails and what happened to the people because they ate too greedily.

But there was another food which they missed perhaps even more than meat. Bread, as you know, is made from flour of various kinds, and of course the people could not very well grow grain while they were traveling through the wilderness.

At what time of day were the quails sent?

What did they find in the morning?

What did Moses tell them this bread was?

What was it called? Manna means "what is it?"

How often were they to gather it?

How much were they to gather?

An omer is about three or four quarts. When were they not to gather it?

How were they fed on the sabbath?

What happened to the manna which they tried to keep on other days?

What did the manna look like? How did it taste?

Look up Numbers 11:7-8 and see how they prepared it for eating. In Psalm 78:25 the manna is called "angels' food." The children of Israel were fed with the manna all through the rest of their forty years of wandering in the wilderness. Read Joshua 5:10-12 to see how the manna stopped as soon as they reached the Holy Land and were able to find grain again. Although the giving of the manna was of course a miracle, we know that all our daily food really comes to us from the Lord. Men cultivate and prepare it, but they do not make the seeds or the fish and birds and animals.

And there is a deeper lesson in our story which you are old enough to understand. The manna is a picture of another kind of food which the Lord will always give us if we ask Him for it — food for our souls. And we have to gather this kind of manna day by day also and to use it while it is fresh. Can we eat enough at one meal or on one day to last us all week? Some people think that if they go to church on Sunday, they can forget the Lord and do as they please all the rest of the week. That is like trying to keep the manna over. We need to read a little from the Bible every day, to think about the Lord, and to pray for enough goodness to meet the temptations which will come to us on that day. That is what we really mean when we say, "Give us this day our daily bread."

