
=== Notes for Parents

If you have been studying these notes consecutively, you will have freshly in mind the wonderful stories of the Passover feast, the crossing of the Red Sea, the sweetening of the bitter waters of Marah, and the period of rest which was given to the children of Israel at the oasis of Elim.

The Lord had performed one miracle after another for the Israelites, and still in our lesson for today we find them complaining and looking back longingly at the "flesh pots" of Egypt. Have you ever known a woman who was very much dissatisfied with the house in which she was living and finally succeeded in moving to another house, only to begin complaining about new inconveniences and recalling only the things she had liked in the old house? Aren't we all pretty much like that? What is hard in our immediate present is apt to fill our minds and crowd out the acknowledgment of the Lord's constant goodness to us. "When you feel like complaining, count your blessings" is an old and wise saying. We are all less grateful to the Lord than we should be, and He deals gently with us, as He did with the Israelites.

The beautiful story of the quails and manna teaches us something we need always to remember. If we look to the Lord and trust Him, He will give us each day our daily bread — not just food for our bodies but food for our souls, the wisdom and strength to meet our daily problems and temptations. But we must gather this spiritual food each day by reading the Word and by prayer. We cannot gather enough of it in church on Sunday to last all week. We should go to church on Sunday to worship the Lord and to thank Him for the blessings we have received during the week. The church is the Lord's house, and there all our own immediate concerns, all our likes and dislikes, all our worldly cares and anxieties should be laid aside for a short time while we "rest in the Lord." It is this spirit of worship and thanksgiving which alone can make the sabbath a day of rest. The other days of the week are the days of trial and temptation when we need a fresh supply of strength from the Lord, and He has provided it for us in His Word. It is there for our gathering each day. As the Psalmist calls it (Psalm 78:25), it is truly "angels' food." [Swedenborg, following Schmidius, renders this "bread of the mighty" (@AC 5490), cf. Psalm 103:20, @HH 229. -Editor]

