
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The important lesson for this class is the difference between the New Church doctrine of salvation and that of other churches. The story for the day can then be presented to emphasize our need of looking to the Lord daily for the strength to meet the problems of the day and to overcome its temptations.

---
We are studying the meaning of the wilderness journey, that part of our spiritual development which lies between the state of living for self and the world and the state called "regeneration." Egypt under the Pharaoh of Moses' time represents, as we have seen, a state in which our higher possibilities are enslaved by selfishness and worldliness. Moses represents the law of the Lord, which should be our leader. The plagues were permitted not only to convince Pharaoh that he must let the children of Israel go, but also to convince the children of Israel that they must not stay in Egypt any longer and that Moses was actually the representative of the God of their fathers. If we are ever to get to heaven — represented by the Holy Land — we must come to a point where we see for ourselves that the merely worldly life is slavery.

The Passover feast, which the children of Israel celebrated on the eve of their departure from Egypt, symbolizes the decision to break off the bondage of natural and worldly desires and thoughts and be led by the Lord. This decision marks the beginning of the period called reformation, for before we can even enter the border of the Holy Land of spiritual living, we must put our external lives in order according to the Lord's laws. The journey of the Israelites from Egypt to Canaan represents this period of reformation. Its first great event was the crossing of the Red Sea, the first practical test of the new determination, the first temptation met and overcome, confirming the decision.

After this first victory the children of Israel were led by the pillar of cloud and fire down the east side of the sea on their way to Sinai. At Marah the Lord showed them how to make the bitter waters sweet for their drinking, and at Elim, "where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees," He gave them a period of rest and refreshment.

The New Church does not teach — as some churches do — that a person can be "saved" by the single religious experience called conversion. One must indeed be converted, that is, turned from the way of self and toward the way of the Lord; but that is only the first step. The way to salvation is a lifelong spiritual journey in which we meet our problems and temptations one after another, sometimes enjoying victory and sometimes slipping back and being defeated, often discouraged and rebellious, but with the Lord's guidance and help, advancing little by little toward our true goal.

Between Elim and Sinai lay the wilderness of Sin — Sin or Zin being the Hebrew word meaning "clay." It was a dry, hot, dusty stretch of country, picturing the way a life of obedience to the Lord often appears to us in the early stages of our journey. It was at this point that the quails and manna were sent. The quails represent external satisfactions in doing good; an example of these would perhaps be our pleasure in the approbation of people whom we love and respect when they see us earnestly trying to overcome our bad habits. But this kind of satisfaction is only a temporary support; the quails were not sent regularly. We need something more, and the Lord gives it to us. The giving of the manna is a wonderful and beautiful story. No one can go on steadfastly through the temptations of this period of reformation unless he has more than external results to uphold him. The manna represents spiritual good. Swedenborg calls it "the good of truth, which is the life of the spiritual man." When the children of Israel first saw it, they said, "What is it?"

We all say this at first about spiritual thinking and living; they seem unreal and remote from any kind of pleasure we have experienced. Yet the manna sustained the children of Israel throughout their whole journey. It is a taste of genuine happiness in the effort to serve the Lord. We are to gather it daily, early in the morning.

The morning, of course, means at the beginning of each new state. At first the dew lay upon the ground. Each new state begins with the reception of some fresh truth. Then comes the manna, the inner satisfaction which nourishes and strengthens the soul. And "when the sun waxed hot, it melted." This fresh satisfaction disappears as the new state is put to the test through temptations; yet it has given strength to endure through them. We pray, "Give us this day our daily bread." It is the heavenly manna, the "angels' food" of the Psalmist (Psalm 78:25), for which we are really praying. We should literally look for this food every morning by reading the Word and praying if we wish to be sustained in the right way through the work of the day. We must gauge the amount of our reading according to our needs, for if we go on beyond the limit of eager and reverent interest, what we read will lose its power to feed us and will even give us a distaste for it, just as the manna which was kept over "bred worms, and stank." The fact that the children of Israel were not to gather the manna on the sabbath does not teach that we should not read the Word and look to the Lord on Sunday, but that in the holy states of peace and rest after victory, which the sabbath represents, we are sustained without conscious effort on our part. We advance in our reformation a step at a time; our spiritual food is given us "line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there a little," until we reach the promised land of spiritual abundance.

