
=== Notes for Parents

I wonder if we haven't all at some time been just a little bit irritated by some dear old lady who was so good she just couldn't believe anything bad of anyone? We knew she was good and that it is right to look for the good in everyone, but when we were perhaps trying to correct some fault in one of our children and she insisted on shielding him and saying the child was such a little dear that we didn't need to worry about him, we couldn't help feeling that something wasn't quite right. The story of the division of Solomon's kingdom after his death shows us that there really is something wrong in refusing to recognize and condemn evil either in ourselves or in others. It is a very deep temptation which comes to everyone who reaches the beautiful state pictured by Solomon's reign, the state when one has come to love to do right. We are tempted then to feel that we can't do wrong, and no one ever reaches that state in this world.

After Solomon's death the whole northern part of the land and the cross—Jordan country rebelled against Solomon's son and set up an independent kingdom. Worse than this, they set up two golden calves, one in Bethel and one in Dan, as their centers of worship, so that they would no longer have to go to the temple at Jerusalem. When we have struggled with the temptations of our earlier lives and established what we believe to be a good character, it is all too easy to fall into the thought that we no longer need to study the Bible or go to church and that if we are kind and helpful and honest in our dealings with our neighbors, the Lord cannot expect any more of us. Then our attention becomes centered on the things of this world only. This was what happened to the people of the northern kingdom when they separated themselves from the worship at Jerusalem.

It was to these northern tribes that the Lord sent the two great prophets Elijah and Elisha. All the prophets spoke from the Lord. Our "prophet" is the written Word of God. If we hear and obey it, the Lord can lead us and take care of us. Our story for today tells how, when Elijah's work was over, he asked his servant and disciple Elisha what last wish he could grant him, and Elisha asked for a double portion of Elijah's spirit. Elijah told him that if he saw him when he was taken away, his wish would be granted. Then Elisha did see the horses and chariot of fire which carried Elijah to heaven in a whirlwind, and Elijah's mantle fell back to earth for Elisha to wear. This is a beautiful picture of how the Bible in the literal form which we know comes to us with double power once we really see that it is not just a book written by men but that it comes to us from God and connects us with heaven.

