
=== Primary

The story is easy to tell and one in which the children will be interested. Emphasize the distinction between Elijah and Elisha and the relation between them. Elisha acted for a time as Elijah's disciple and servant and then became his successor. Before telling the conclusion of the story read to the children verses 9 and 10. The granting of a wish always catches a child's imagination. We remember how many fairy tales are based on this theme, but do not mention this fact to the children unless they bring it up themselves. If they do, be sure to impress upon them that the Word is not a fairy story. In fact, the idea as it appears in the fairy stories doubtless goes back to the instances recorded in our Word and in the Ancient Word, as so many universal modes of thought and speech do.

Do you remember what the Lord promised Solomon after he built the temple? He promised that if the people would obey his laws, He would always be with them in the temple and take care of them.

But the people didn't remember. After Solomon died and his son Rehoboam became king, a man named Jeroboam persuaded half the people to rebel against Rehoboam and set up a new kingdom. They accepted Jeroboam for their king. The other half of the people remained faithful to Rehoboam.

Jeroboam was afraid that if his people continued to go up to the temple at Jerusalem to worship, they might change their minds. So he set up two golden calves for them to worship.

Jeroboam was a wicked king, and all the kings that followed him were wicked too. Jeroboam's part of the land was called Israel and Rehoboam's part was called Judah. One of the very worst of the kings after Jeroboam was Ahab, and he had a wife called Jezebel who was even worse than he was. While Ahab was king, the Lord tried to save the people of Israel by sending a great prophet to warn them. His name was Elijah. Elijah showed Ahab in many ways just how foolish he and his people were to turn away from the Lord and worship idols. Ahab was almost persuaded, but Jezebel hated Elijah and tried to kill him.

But the Lord always protected him.

When Elijah was old, he was told by the Lord that a man named Elisha was to succeed him.

How did they cross the Jordan?

What wish did Elisha make? What did Elijah tell him?

How was Elijah taken to heaven?

Did Elisha see it?

How did Elisha get Elijah's mantle? What did he do with it?

Near what city did this happen?

What did some of the prophets learn from the miracle?

