
=== Adult

The meaning of the four horsemen emerges so clearly in the light of correspondence that a consecutive study of the opening of the six seals seems indicated for this class rather than the usual topical discussion. If possible, the teacher should take time to read the whole chapter in @AR , noting the cross—references in the Word, which are of particular interest.

---
The "four horsemen of the Apocalypse" have caught the imagination of the Christian world for centuries. They have always been recognized as symbols of a progressive judgment, and many attempts have been made to interpret them in terms of one or another world crisis.

But the fact is that their application is spiritual, not material, and that they have to do with the inner states of all of us who live in this age of the Second Coming. For the judgment which followed the opening of the seals is the final judgment made possible by the opening of the inner meaning of the Word.

In the @AR Swedenborg gives us this very brief summary of the meaning of this part of our chapter: "The exploration of those upon whom the final judgment is about to come, is treated of; and what their understanding of the Word had been is discovered and hence what was the state of their life: that there were those who were in truths from good (verses 1-2); who were without good (verses 3-4); who were in contempt for the truth (verses 5-6); and who were altogether vastated as to good and truth (verses 7-8)."

The first type are those who will live in the heavens. They accept the truths of the Word and use them in combat against their evils. See Revelation 19:11-13.

The second type understand the truth but have no desire to live according to it.

The third type have no interest in or understanding of the truth, but wish to appear good and so, like the Pharisees, keep the letter of the law and argue about it.

The fourth type are wholly given over to self-love and the falsities which favor it.

All the last three types are destructive, and the forms of destruction are pictured in the powers given to the three riders.

In sharp contrast to them, the rider on the white horse had a bow in his hand, which is a symbol of doctrine. It is often called to our attention in the writings that the Word cannot be understood without doctrine. It is also stated that doctrine must be drawn from the letter of the Word and confirmed thereby. People have sometimes interpreted this to mean that we do not need the spiritual sense in order to understand the Word. But it is also pointed out in the writings that all the various Christian sects, like the Israelitish Church before them, have based their beliefs on the letter of the Word. So the question arises, "How are we to know what is the true doctrine?" The writings give us the basis of the answer in n. 91 of the Doctrine of the @DSS: "It has been shown above that the Word cannot be understood without doctrine, and that doctrine is like a lamp that enables genuine truths to be seen, the reason of which is that the Word has been written entirely by correspondences, and consequently many things in it are appearances of truth and not naked truths; and many things also have been written in adaptation to the apprehension of the natural and even of the sensuous man, yet so that the simple may understand it in that the appearances of truth in the Word, which are truths clothed, may be caught at as naked truths, and when they are confirmed they become falsities. But this is done by those who believe themselves wise above others, although they are not wise, for being wise consists in seeing whether a thing is true before it is confirmed, and not in confirming whatever one pleases. The last is done by those who excel in a genius for confirming and are in the conceit of self-intelligence, but the former is done by those who love truths and are affected by them because they are truths, and who make them uses of the life, for these persons are enlightened by the Lord, and see truths by the light of the truths; whereas the others are enlightened by themselves and see falsities by the light of the falsities."

We do not come at the truth without effort on our part. We must continually study the Word and the writings. But our study must be carried on with the mind humble and open to the Lord, and with the desire to learn the truth — even if it does not support our preconceived opinion — so that we may direct our lives by it. The rider on the white horse was given a crown, which is the symbol of victorious combat. The combat is against evil and falsity primarily in ourselves.

The rider on the red horse has no desire to see or to correct his own evils. His sword is truth falsified by being used for self-advantage. He uses this sword against others, and so destroys peace, and kills. Read Zechariah 1:8-15.

We know that darkness always pictures ignorance. The rider on the black horse had a pair of balances, which signify the "estimation of truth and good," and the value he placed on the wheat and barley was very small. The wheat and barley here represent exterior good and truth. He is not allowed to "hurt" the oil and wine because they represent interior good and truth which are hidden from him so that they will not be profaned. For an interesting and illuminating comparison read @AC 7601 concerning the plague of hail in Egypt which destroyed the flax and barley but was not allowed to destroy the wheat and spelt (KJV: rie).

Finally compare the rider on the pale horse with the third excuse in the parable of the Great Supper (Luke 14): "I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come."

In thinking of the correspondences involved in this story, it is also interesting to remember that the four creatures, or cherubim, are mentioned in order with the appearance of the horses, and that the creatures are described in order in chapter 5 as being like a lion, a calf, a man, and a flying eagle. The lion is the symbol of power, and the rider on the white horse went forth conquering and to conquer. The calf is the symbol of natural goodness, which the rider on the red horse is able to destroy. The man is the symbol of the intellectual, for which the rider on the black horse has no use. And the eagle is the symbol of spiritual knowledges which are killed out of the mind by the rider on the pale horse.

In the last part of our chapter the opening of the fifth and sixth seals reveals the effect of the opening of the Word upon the good and the evil gathered in the spiritual world during the centuries of the first Christian Church. Swedenborg tells us that the permanent Christian heavens could not be formed until the Second Coming of the Lord had taken place and that until that time all the good from the Christian world were kept, guarded by the Lord, in a part of the spiritual world called "the lower earth." These are the "souls under the altar" (Revelation 6:9). The evil who had called themselves Christians and expected to be saved were kept in "imaginary heavens." These were the heavens which "departed as a scroll when it is rolled together" at the opening of the sixth seal. The evil then saw themselves as they really were and sought a place to hide from the face of the Lord.

