
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the opening of the seals one after another and of the effect as pictured by the four horses and their riders is the major lesson for this class. The teacher should study the details of the vision as given in the Adult notes and be able to add to the general correspondence wherever the young people show interest.

---
The book of Revelation, the last book in our Bible, is a wonderful series of visions describing the inner states which would develop in the people of the Christian Church as the years went on. You may recall from earlier studies that these visions were given to the apostle John when, as a very old man, he was living in exile on the island of Patmos, off the coast of Asia Minor. John, of course, had been among the apostles on the night of Resurrection day, when the Lord appeared to them and opened their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. In his vision on Patmos he was given to see how the truth in the Word, as it had been revealed to men by the Lord's life on earth, would gradually uncover deeper and deeper evils in men's hearts, and how some would choose to obey the truth and fight their evils, and how others would choose to deny the truth or to falsify it in one way or another so that they might continue in their evils.

John first saw the wonderful vision of the Lord standing in the midst of the seven lampstands, and was given messages of judgment and warning to the seven churches in Asia Minor over which he had charge, and then he saw the vision of the great throne of judgment and the twenty-four elders and the four creatures, and then the vision of the book sealed with seven seals, which the lamb was to open. Today we begin the vision of the opening of the seals.

The Bible is given us by the Lord to teach us how to live. He promises that if we live according to its teachings, we shall be happy both in this world and in heaven. Our common sense tells us that this must be true. Then why don't we always want to learn more and more of the truth and obey it? It is because we are selfish, and the Bible tells us that we must be unselfish. The more we understand about the Bible, the deeper we have to look into our own minds and hearts to find the selfishness and root it out.

So the opening of the seals in John's vision revealed greater and greater evils. As the first four seals were opened, John saw a series of horses with their riders. Horses in the Word picture intelligence, or our higher reasoning powers. Our reasoning power is one of our most useful faculties, isn't it? But sometimes we use it in the wrong way — for instance, to help us get what we want even though we know it is bad for us to have it. We can do this even with what we know of the Bible. So the different horses picture the ways in which different people use the Bible.

The white horse pictures a true understanding of it from a desire to live according to its teachings, for the Lord will always enlighten us if we read the Word with this desire. So his rider had a bow to fight with and a crown to show that he was able to win in temptation. He went forth conquering and to conquer. The red horse pictures the false understanding of the Bible which people have who use it to excuse their own faults and to condemn other people. Such an understanding hurts rather than helps us. Black is the opposite of white; so the black horse pictures no real understanding of the Bible at all because of a lack of desire to study it seriously as a revelation from God. People of this kind often make a great fuss about little details in the letter of the Word, as the scribes and Pharisees did, but do not actually care much about truth and goodness. Read Matthew 23:23-24.

Finally at the opening of the fourth seal, a "pale" horse came out. This is a picture of those who have lost both the understanding of the truth and the desire to do right. You may remember in the parable of the Great Supper about the man who had married a wife and said that therefore he could not come. There is no hope of saving such people, because there is nothing in either their minds or their hearts to which the Lord can appeal to change them. So the rider on that horse was called Death, because when we turn altogether from the Lord, there is no life in our souls. And "Hell followed with him."

The opening of the fifth seal showed all those who could be saved, and the opening of the sixth showed those who could not. These last wanted only to be hidden from the Lord, as we try to hide when we are doing something which we know to be wrong.

