
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Center the lesson around the apostle John, reminding the children of the stories they have had in which he figured, and making clear that he was John the apostle, not John the Baptist. Then try to impress the children with the wonder of what the Lord let John see. Tell them the first visions and then read the lesson, trying to have them remember the colors of the horses in order. Deal with the place of the book of Revelation in the Bible. In reviewing the first five chapters, stress the tact that the sealed book is the Word and that the lamb is another name for the Lord. Try to make the children feel an eagerness for the understanding of these visions which they will have when they are older.

---
Do you remember how many men the Lord chose to be His apostles? There were twelve. The first four He chose were two sets of brothers, Peter and Andrew, and James and John. They were all fishermen, and the Lord told them that if they would follow Him, He would make them fishers of men. So they left their nets and followed Him.

John is the one we want to think about this morning. He was probably the youngest of the twelve, and is called "the beloved disciple." It was he together with his brother James and Peter who saw the Lord transfigured. After the Lord ascended to heaven, John was one of the four men chosen to write down an inspired account of the Lord's life. The other three were Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Do you know what we call these accounts?

But John was chosen for another great work when he was a very old man. He had been faithful to the task which the Lord had given to the apostles and had helped to spread the good news about the Lord through all the country called Asia Minor. Seven Christian churches had been formed there, and they all looked up to John as their leader.

But there were always people who hated the Christians, just as the scribes and Pharisees had hated Christ Himself. They did not put John to death, but they took him away from his people and put him out on an island, the island of Patmos, to live.

John was a very old man when he was given this revelation.

He was head of seven Christian churches which had been established in Asia Minor.

The first chapter of Revelation tells how the Lord appeared to John in Patmos.

His appearance was even more shining and wonderful than when John, with Peter and James, had seen Him transfigured.

But John recognized Him as the same Lord he had known so well.

First He gave John messages for the seven churches in Asia Minor.

Then He gave him a vision of a great throne with twenty-four elders sitting on seats around it.

And there were also four "beasts" or living creatures, which were cherubim, one like a lion, one like a calf, one like a man, and one like a flying eagle.

In the hand of the one who sat on the throne John saw a book sealed with seven seals, which only the Lord could open.

We have learned that this book was the Word.

Today our story is about the opening of some of the seals by the Lord, who is here called the lamb.

What did John see when the first seal was opened?

What did he see as each of the next three was opened?

When you are older, you will be able to learn what these four horses mean.

