
=== Senior

There is so much in this lesson that all the teacher can do is to give its general meaning and discuss the quotation from the writings as a small example of the detailed interpretation. Try to impress the young people with the importance of cultivating a desire for all the spiritual truth we can get, and with the wealth which the Lord has put at our disposal.

---
The book of Revelation is the inspired record of a long vision given to the apostle John near the end of his life, when he was in exile on the island of Patmos off the coast of Asia Minor. It is the strictly prophetic part of the New Testament and treats of the spiritual states through which the Christian Church would pass, of its gradual decline, the final judgment upon it, and the establishment of a new and lasting Christian Church, which is pictured as the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven.

The book begins with John's vision of the Lord standing in the midst of seven lampstands and the messages which the Lord gave John for the seven churches in Asia Minor over which he was head. What we need especially to remember from chapters 2 and 3 for the purpose of our lesson for today is the fact that even as early as the time of the giving of this vision — somewhere around A.D. 90 - the individual Christian groups were developing in different directions and were losing their first faith and zeal. Each of the seven churches had its good points and its faults; each of the seven messages of the Lord was couched in different terms; each church received a different warning, and each was promised a different reward for fidelity. People are different. They do not see things just alike. The Lord gives us the truth in His Word in such a way that we may choose to believe as much as we are willing to live by, and He holds us responsible for making the choice and for governing our lives accordingly. The choice is an all-important one, for it determines our life to eternity.

Chapter 4 gives us the vision of the great throne, which is the symbol of judgment, and chapter 5 gives the added picture of the book sealed with seven seals, which only the "Lion of the tribe of Judah," the lamb, the Lord Himself could open. In our study of that lesson we referred to Revelation 20:11-12, in which the judgment was accomplished by comparing the "books" which we write by our daily lives with the "book of life." The difference between a good and a bad life is just in whether we truly wish to be led by the Lord or to be led by our own desires and thoughts.

The opening of the seven seals pictures the opening of our understanding to see what the Word really teaches. The opening of each seal judges people who are in one or another attitude of mind toward the Word. The four horses are four different ways of regarding the Word.

The white horse pictures a true understanding of the Word which the Lord will always give us if our purpose in reading it is to find out what He really says and how He wants us to live, so that we can obey and serve Him. The rider on the white horse is able to conquer in temptation. Later in the book of Revelation (Revelation 19:11-13) the white horse appears again, and his rider is called the Word of God.

The red horse pictures an understanding of the Word with no desire to obey it. Without the desire to apply the truth to the discovery and correction of our own faults, we use our intelligence and the truth which the Lord gives us in the Word in such a way that they work harm to others and to ourselves, for truth used for selfish purposes becomes falsified and destroys us.

The black horse pictures the use of the Word by those who have no understanding of its real meaning nor any real interest in it. This rider had a pair of balances and was weighing everything and paying a very small price for everything he received. This is the attitude of mind of the scribes and Pharisees, elaborating on the letter of the law and ignoring its spirit.

The pale horse pictures those who have lost both their understanding of the truth of the Word and their desire to do right. Because they have left themselves no way of approach to the Lord, they are riding to spiritual death.

The opening of the fifth and sixth seals reveals the states in which the good and the evil find themselves in the judgment. The good are humble and long to draw closer to the Lord. The evil try to hide from the face of the Lord. We can sometimes tell whether or not we are doing right by our willingness or unwillingness to have our thoughts and intentions seen by others.

Every detail of this vision has, as always, its particular meaning, which we can further study at length in Swedenborg's works on the Apocalypse. The quotation given at the end of this lesson is merely an example of what is there for us.

