
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this class, after a brief survey of the lesson, consult the members to see which phase of the subject will make the most profitable discussion. The teacher will need to study not only the chapter for the day but also 1 Kings 5-9, and should look through Ezekiel 40-48 for additional background.

---
The three kings all represent the Lord's truth — or the Word — accepted as our ruling principle in our adult lives, but with varying degrees of understanding. Natural understanding, pictured by Saul, cannot of itself produce any higher degree. Saul's line had to perish. But spiritual understanding does produce lasting spiritual results. David was promised that there should never be lacking one of his line to sit on his throne, and we remember that the Lord chose to be born into the house and lineage of David. So David's son followed him as king, and Solomon's gift from the Lord was an "understanding heart."

As Jonathan played an important role in the transition from Saul to David, so there was another man — a king — who played an important role in the transition from David to Solomon. Even after a spiritual understanding of truth has wholly succeeded natural understanding as ruler in the life, the natural plane of thought and activity continues as a necessary and serviceable basis of the character. In 1 Kings 5 this fact is brought out in the agreement between Solomon and Hiram king of Tyre. We are told in the writings that Tyre and Sidon represent knowledges of good and truth (@AC 2967) and that Hiram represents the nations that are outside of the church but with whom there are knowledges of good and truth (@AE 514[7]). Hiram was a friend of both David and Solomon, helping David in the building of his own house and Solomon in the building of the temple, as well as of his other structures. In the individual life Hiram pictures our good "Gentile" states, states in which we are absorbed in learning scientific and rational truths and training our minds in intelligent thinking, not seeing clearly perhaps the relation to the Lord and the church of what we are doing, but intending to make unselfish use of whatever we acquire of knowledge and ability. All that we gain in this way can be made serviceable to our regeneration, first in developing orderly spiritual thinking — David's house — and later in building true heavenly character, the church in us, for which the temple stands. When the knowledge and ability we have gained is thus used to build up the church in us, this very outer region of our minds is fed with truth and good from the Lord and lives from Him: "And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food to his household, and twenty measures of pure oil: thus gave Solomon to Hiram year by year." An example of this process might perhaps be found in our acquisition of the knowledge of ancient history and the habit of trying to trace historical causes. We find such study interesting and desire to make it useful in some way. Then, once we catch a glimpse of the correspondence of the ancient people and lands and begin to see their history as spiritual drama and, in the Word, relate it to the Lord's life and to our own spiritual states, our knowledge of ancient history "comes alive," and every detail that we have stored in our memory becomes useful in our spiritual development and is filled with higher and deeper meaning.

David wished to build the temple of the Lord but was told through Nathan the prophet that this privilege must be left for his son. Solomon gives us the reason for this in his reply to Hiram: "Thou knowest how that David my father could not build an house unto the name of the Lord his God for the wars which were about him on every side, until the Lord had put them under the soles of his feet." Heavenly character, the house of the Lord in us, is not built by our own knowledge or rationality, even when that is spiritually enlightened; nor is it built while we are passing through temptation. It is built in the states of peace which follow victories, built by the Lord's spirit flowing in silently where the enemy has been cast out.

Swedenborg tells us many times to guard against the thought that what goodness we have is our own, and tells us that it is always the Lord's goodness in us. We merely open the door by turning away from evils and toward the Lord. So the temple was built silently, every piece having been prepared elsewhere, as the various truths and goods which go to make up a heavenly character come to us as a result of experiences in every field of our activity, and our character grows silently through our full period of opportunity, which is our life in this world. "So was he seven years in building it." Swedenborg gives us a further suggestion as to the reason why Solomon and not David was permitted to build the temple. In @DP 245, in discussing the relative meaning of David and Solomon, he says that the temple signifies both the Divine Human and the church: David could not build it because he represents the Lord before His coming into the world, whereas Solomon represents the Lord after His coming. Another interesting thought is suggested in @AE 654[33]: "As every man of the church has a spiritual, a rational, and a natural, therefore Solomon built three houses, the house of God or the temple to stand for the spiritual, the house of the forest of Lebanon for the rational (for 'cedar' and thence 'Lebanon' signifies the rational), and the house of the daughter of Pharaoh for the natural." That is, when the soul has really found rest in the Lord, it takes on an appropriate and beautiful form not only with reference to things of the church, but with reference to intellectual and even to external worldly things.

In studying the correspondence of the various details of the temple, we should recall our knowledge of the tabernacle and consider the similarities and the differences between the two. The tabernacle represents the celestial church and the temple the spiritual church (@AR 585), the tabernacle being the Lord's dwelling place in a more childlike, less intellectual stage of development. In @HH 223 we are told that the houses of worship in the celestial heavens are of wood, while those in the spiritual heavens are of stone, because wood corresponds to good and stone to truth. Thus the walls of the tabernacle were of wood, but those of the temple were of stone. The cedar with which they were covered pictures the good coming from the rational understanding of truth. This could be carved into beautiful forms of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers, which suggest thoughts about the Lord's providence, His saving power, and the great variety of blessings which come to us from Him. The gold which overlaid it is the love which makes the truth beautiful. In 2 Chronicles 3:1 we learn that Solomon's temple was built on Mount Moriah in Jerusalem instead of on Mount Zion, where David's tabernacle had been. Swedenborg tells us in many places that Zion represents the celestial church. Therefore it was fitting that a tabernacle should have been erected there but that the temple, which represents the spiritual church, should in the letter have been built on Mount Moriah. Wherever Zion and Jerusalem are mentioned together in the Word, Zion refers to the celestial church and Jerusalem to the spiritual church.

The brief account of the structure of the temple which is given in our chapter is filled in and amplified in the description of it as it was showed to Ezekiel in vision some years after its destruction (Ezekiel 40-48). From a long study of the two accounts the Rev. T. O. Paine, a New Church minister, in the middle of the last [20th]century demonstrated the identity of the two by drawing a careful plan of the temple as given in our chapter and an equally careful one of the temple of Ezekiel's vision and finding that when the two plans were superimposed, they not only coincided, but each supplied details which the other lacked, indicating that they were intended to be complementary.

