
=== Junior

It is in this class that the plan and details of the temple should be found most interesting, especially in comparison with those of the tabernacle. This will take most of the lesson time, but be sure the children also understand why Solomon instead of David built the temple.

---
David was a fighting king. He was successful against his enemies and brought the kingdom of Israel to its greatest extent and power. The Lord had told David through Nathan the prophet that one of his sons was to be his successor. So David, near the end of his life, had Solomon anointed as the next king, and the people accepted Solomon.

The name Solomon means "peace." Solomon had peace throughout his reign, and he reigned, as David did, forty years. Early in his reign he went to Gibeon to make offerings to the Lord. The tabernacle which had been made at Sinai was at this time set up at Gibeon with all its furnishings except the ark. At Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream and offered to give him anything he asked for. Solomon asked for wisdom. This request and its fulfillment were the cause of Solomon's greatness. He was so wise that not only his own people but other kings and queens came to listen to him. The Lord also gave him great riches, for which he had not asked. The chapters which tell of his reign are full of descriptions of his possessions.

David had wanted to build a temple in Jerusalem, but the Lord told him that his son should be the one to build it. Our lesson today tells about the building of the temple. This temple which Solomon built was not the one of which we read in the Gospels, but it was in the same place. There are two hills in the city of Jerusalem, Mount Zion and Mount Moriah, separated by a valley. Mount Zion, the western hill, was the fortified citadel, and when David brought the ark to Jerusalem, he placed his tabernacle for it there. But Solomon built the temple on the eastern hill, Mount Moriah (2 Chronicles 3:1), and the two later temples, the temple of Zerubbabel and the temple of Herod (the temple of the Gospel story) were built on the same site. Perhaps you remember that it was on Mount Moriah that Abraham tried to sacrifice Isaac.

What were the dimensions of Solomon's temple? What materials were used to build it?

What is said about the way in which it was built (verse 7)? What were the inside walls made of?

The cedar for the walls of the temple, as well as the fir [probably cypress] for the floor and doors, came from the mountains of Lebanon. Hiram, king of Tyre, who was a firm friend of both David and Solomon, furnished the skilled workmen who cut it, and Solomon's men worked with them. Read 1 Kings 5:8-11 to see what Hiram agreed to do and how Solomon paid for the work.

The details of the structure of the temple are not easy for us to work out from the brief account given in our chapter. There is another account of it as the prophet Ezekiel was permitted to see it in vision many years later. This description is found in chapters 40 to 48 of the book of Ezekiel. A New Church minister, the Rev. T. O. Paine, about a hundred years ago made a very thorough study of the two accounts and has given us in his book what is probably the most accurate picture we can form of the building and its surroundings. [See T. O. Paine, Solomon's Temple, Boston: George Phinney, 1861. (There were also several later editions.) -Editor] You can see from reading our chapter for today that the proportions of the temple were the same as those of the tabernacle, that it was divided into two parts, as the tabernacle proper was, and that the oracle, which was the Holy of Holies where the ark was placed, was a cube just as it had been in the tabernacle.

The temple, however, being a permanent building, could have additional features. It had a broad porch in front, the roof of which was supported by two great brass columns. These and all the other brass furnishings were cast by another Hiram — not the king — and are described in 1 Kings 7:15-22. The "chambers" described in verses 5 and 6 of our chapter were built against the side walls of the temple on the outside, but they opened into the temple. These were used as treasure chambers to hold all the gold and silver articles and the trophies of victory. The furnishings of the temple were similar to those of the tabernacle, except that there were ten lampstands instead of one in the Holy Place.

From Ezekiel we get an idea of the great outer court, in which were not only the great altar and laver but also ten smaller lavers, as well as chambers for the priests who were on duty, and places for roasting and boiling the parts of the sacrifices which were the portion of the priests for their own eating. And the outer gate was a whole building in itself.

Our chapter tells us also of two figures which Solomon had made for the oracle.

What were they?

Of what were they made?

How tall were they?

How long were their wings?

What were they overlaid with?

Chapter 8 tells of the great feast of dedication when the temple was completed, and of Solomon's prayer that the Lord might always dwell in it to receive the worship of his people and hear their prayers and forgive their sins.

