
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Review the names of the three kings and something of the difference between David's reign and Solomon's, which made it possible for Solomon to build the temple. Tell them the difference between a temple and a tabernacle, and take up the temple by comparison. The characteristics of Solomon's reign are important, and his league with Hiram should be described.

---
David asked the Lord if he might build a temple in Jerusalem to take the place of the tabernacle he had made for the ark, but the Lord told him through the prophet Nathan that he was not the one who should build the temple. He was to have a son who would build it. This son was Solomon, the third great king of Israel. See if you can learn the names of the three kings — Saul, David, and Solomon — so well that you will always remember them.

Solomon was a very great king. He did not have to fight battles because David had conquered all the enemies. So all through his reign there was peace instead of fighting. Solomon's name means "peace." Early in his reign the Lord offered to grant him a wish, and Solomon wished for a wise and understanding heart so that he could rule his people well. The Lord was pleased with this wish and in addition to a wise and understanding heart gave him great riches. People came from far away just to see his treasures and to ask him questions.

Solomon built several beautiful buildings.

What did he build for the Lord?

What were the outside walls made of?

Where was the stone cut?

What were the inside walls?

The cedar came from the Lebanon mountains. Hiram, king of Tyre, helped Solomon to get it.

The Holy of Holies, where the ark was kept, was called the oracle or inner sanctuary. Here Solomon set up two giant figures of cherubim, made of olive wood overlaid with gold. Their outspread wings touched in the center over the ark, and they were so big that the other tips of their wings touched the outer walls.

The Lord told Solomon that if the people would truly worship and obey Him, He would always be with them and bless them.

It took seven years to build the temple. When it was finished, Solomon had a great dedication service with sacrifices and a feast, and brought the ark from David's tabernacle and put it in the oracle in the temple.

