
=== Senior

The meaning of the three kings should be made clear in this class. Young people should know that although they will not arrive at the Solomon stage for many years, the state he represents is the ideal toward which they are working. They are preparing materials from day to day from which the Lord can build their characters. They should have clearly in mind from the first what is their part and what is the Lord's, as a check to the universal tendency to self-praise.

---
The three kings, Saul, David, and Solomon, represent stages in our regeneration. Under Saul we keep the commandments and study the Word from a sense of duty and with the feeling that being Christians will prosper us in the world and get us to heaven. Under David we do the same from an understanding of them and of the Lord's purpose in giving them to us. Under Solomon we study and keep the law because we have learned to love it. Then it is written in our hearts and we no longer are in a constant struggle against our own selfish desires. We are at peace. Solomon means "peace." What Solomon asked of the Lord was an "understanding heart."

There is a difference between knowledge, intelligence, and wisdom. One may have a great deal of knowledge, but if he cannot organize it and apply it to his life, he is not intelligent. And he is not wise until he has proved his knowledge and intelligence by experience.

The temple was built under Solomon. David had wanted to build a temple, but the Lord, speaking through Nathan the prophet, told him that his son should be the one to build it, and we learn in 1 Kings 5:3 that this was because David's work was the work of conquest. While we are fighting our evils and weaknesses we must remain in the childlike state of worship and trust represented by the tabernacle. In overcoming our temptations we are preparing the way for the building of the temple of spiritual character, but it is really the Lord's spirit inflowing in the peaceful times which follow our victories which does the actual building. The same lesson is taught by the fact that "there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was in building." The materials for the temple, stone and wood — truth and goodness - were brought from outside the Holy Land and each piece was fashioned before it was brought. Our "temple" is built of the truth and goodness we have made our own by shaping our outward lives according to what is true. It rises up silently within us and at the end of seven years — when the Lord sees that we have reached the full measure of holiness we are willing to achieve — it stands forth in its final form as we pass into the spiritual world.

The "oracle" of the temple, or Holy of Holies, was entirely covered within with gold leaf, a symbol of the love which should be within our hearts. When all was complete, the ark was brought into it. Then the "glory of the Lord" filled the temple and Solomon held a solemn dedication service. It is a beautiful picture of a life dedicated to the Lord's service, with the commandments at the center kept from love to the Lord.

The Lord's promise to Solomon to add to him riches and glory for which he had not asked was fully kept. The chapters telling of his marvelous possessions picture in the internal sense the spiritual riches of a truly good life. Every detail has its meaning. In its fullest sense we do not reach the Solomon state until our life in this world is over, but we do have repeated experiences of it as we overcome one temptation after another. As we recognize any given evil in ourselves, fight against it with the Lord's help, conquer it, and come to love its opposite, we experience something of the peace and beauty and spiritual riches which are in store for the faithful, and which are pictured in the story of Solomon's kingdom.

