
=== No. VII. ARGUMENTS FOB THE LITERAL INTERPRETATION OF THE FIRST PART OOGENESIS CONSIDERED

I have stated in the text above, that the regarding of the early part of Genesis as a pure allegory, solves all the difficulties attending it, and is itself unattended
I am aware, however, that difficulties have been attempted to be by any.
raised against the allegorical interpretation; but the arguments by which they are supported appear to me to be scarcely deserving of the least consideration,
 -- to be such as would never have been offered but in behalf of a cause altogether indefensible. We will here notice one or two that are most insisted on; being the only ones I have seen which make any approach towards plausibility.

It has been urged, that the account of Adam and Eve, and of the other antediluvian patriarchs, is referred to in the New Testament as real.
But,
certainly, nothing is any where said of them which is not as applicable to the
For instance: When Paul spiritual as to the literal acceptation of the history.
says, "that as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive*," the meaning is the same if we understand by Adam the first assemblage of human beings who were ever formed by God into a Church, and by the departure of whom from the primeval integrity, man at this day inherits a corrupt nature,
as if we understand by him a single individual: indeed it is perfectly evident,
that the Apostle uses the term Adam for man's state by nature.
In like manner, when the genealogy of Jesus Christ is carried up to Adam, the true meaning
* 1 Cor. xv. 21.


is the same, whether some of those personages be purely allegorical characters
For although those from Abraham, or perhaps from Eber, were indior not.
vidual men who lived as such in the world, they still were all representative characters, and they are mentioned in that genealogy to denote certain species of human minds, or certain principles which enter into the composition of the human mind: these then are enumerated as ancestors, according to the flesh,
of the Lord Jesus Christ, to inform us, that in his human nature was concentred every thing belonging to the human character, from highest to lowest, from first to last; every thing that had ever entered into it, from the primeval times, when human nature appeared in its highest integrity, so as to be almost a pure, abstract essence, till the age in which he was bora among the Jews,
who then were the most gross and carnalized race that ever existed: thus that all was assumed, and all was redeemed, by him.

Of the same nature is the objection of Lord Bolingbroke, whose statement is quoted by one of the advocates of the literal interpretation, and who introduces
** Even Lord Bolingbroke (than whom Revelation never had a more it thus:
subtle opposer) justly rejects the allegorical interpretation; 'It cannot (says he)
le admitted by Christians; for if it was, what would become of that famous text
[that the seed of the woman should bruise the serpent's head,] whereon the
But the writer who has adduced doctrine of our redemption is founded?'"*
this as authority, while he declares the subtilty of this opponent of revelation,
has here, in his own simplicity, overlooked the snake in the grass. The passage he quotes is itself an example of the subtilty of the noble infidel; whose object,
doubtless, was, to clog the belief of Revelation with all possible difficulties; and who therefore wished to shut out the allegorical interpretation of this part of the Word of God, because he saw that, if this were admitted, no solid objection
Whether the woman spoken of in this prophecy denote would lie against it.
the first female of the human race, or human nature in general as to its principle of affection or will, it equally was fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was as truly the seed of the woman in the spiritual as in the literal sense of the words.

In another instance it has been attempted to overturn the whole doctrine of allegorical interpretation by a quibble: it has been said, that "a figurative
But it is not the fall itself fall would require only a figurative redemption."
which the allegorical interpretation represents as figurative, but the description of it: the fall itself it considers as real, and, of course, that it required a real redemption.

Altogether then, I trust, it must be seen, that every consideration which can be brought to bear upon this question, confirms the fact, that the history in this part of Genesis is a continued allegory; and that no reasonable objection can be raised against it.

* Home's Introd. vol. i. p. 174.

