
=== No. II. - AS ATTEMPT TO DISCRIMINATE BETWEEN THE BOOKS OF PLENARY TXSPIBATIOX, CONTAINED IX THE BIBLE, AND THOSE WRITTEN BY THE INSPIRATION GENERALLY ASSIGNED TO THE WHOLE

;"

We are advocating in this Work "the Plenary Inspiration of the Scriptures and we are endeavouring to shew, that no writing can be produced by Plenary
Inspiration without including stores of spiritual and divine wisdom within the outward covering of the literal expression.
It must however be admitted, that there are some books contained in the collection called the Bible, which, though they are to be received as the productions of men endowed with an extraordinary share of divine illumination, do not contain the spiritual sense here claimed for the absolute Word of God, and thus cannot be the results of that immediate and Plenary Inspiration which is essential to such writings as are the Word of God indeed.
The particular examination of this subject could not conveniently be introduced into the Lectures themselves; wherefore we will make some remarks upon it here.
It is necessary that the distinction should net be passed without notice; since, without a knowledge of its existence, they
* Book L Hymn 21.

jg


who should endeavour to interpret the Scriptures by the Rule drawn from the
Analogy between natural things and spiritual, or to try the validity of the
Rule itself, might be disappointed in the results, in consequence of applying it to those parts of the Bible which are not composed according to it, or are not written by the plenary and immediate, but by the more lax and mediate species of inspiration.

We have stated in our early Lectures the sentiments which are now generally held by the learned on the nature of the inspiration of the Word of God; and we objected to them as not going far enough, and as not giving a proper idea
They all proceed upon the suppoof compositions that are absolutely divine.
sition, that inspiration, be it what it may, is a personal and permanent gift to the man by whom an inspired book is written; that the writers of the Scriptures were divinely illuminated men, who, with few exceptions, wrote in theii own words the perceptions of their own minds, which were the constant seats oi the illumination of the Holy Spirit: (though some will not admit so much as
If this definition were intended for a certain portion, only, of the books this.)
commonly called the Holy Scriptures, we should be constrained to admit it to be correct; but we deem it grossly defective when applied to the greater part of them. The inspiration by which these were written, was, we have endeavoured to shew, such as took an entire possession, for the time, of the faculties of the writers; and after they had written what was intended, it again would leave them, and then they would return into their ordinary state; in which they would not necessarily understand the meaning of the things, which, in
The other books admitted their state of ecstacy, they had spoken or written.
into our Canon of Scripture, appear, for the most part, to have been composed by persons, who were endowed with such a degree of illumination, by the Spirit of God, as to discern, in the former class of writings, the doctrine suited to the dispensation of Divine Truth under which they lived, and which they were raised up to assist in establishing, -- such of them as lived under the Jewish dispensation, the doctrine of the Jewish church, and such of them as were raised up to establish Christianity, the doctrine of the Christian Church: and the writings of the latter are justly taken, by the Christian Church, as authoritaBeside the doctrinal writings of tive declarations of her authentic doctrines.
this class, there are also some historical ones.
All writings of this class are to be interpreted by their literal sense alone; allowing, however, for their occasional use of figurative expressions, and of words and phrases taken from those
Scriptures which have a spiritual sense, and which, of course, must bear the same meaning when excerpted as in their original repository.
In short, these writings are to be explained by the same sort of criticism as would be exercised to ascertain the meaning of other ancient authors.

I. The assertion, that there are writings of two so distinct classes contained in the sacred collection called the Bible, may at first appear arbitrary and unsupported by the reason of the case: and yet when it is more attentively considered, I apprehend it will be discovered to be founded, not merely in reason,
but in absolute necessity; for it will appear, that the designs of the Almighty
Father in giving a dispensation of his will to man, could not otherwise have been made effectual.

1. We have endeavoured to prove, in the third, and in the preceding part of this fourth Lecture, that no composition which is truly and absolutely the Word of God, could be produced, the literal sense of which should not be composed of



U

natural images, and of appearances of things taken from the world of nature and that such is actually the case with the books of Scripture which are written by the plenary inspiration, is shewn in the sequel of this, and in the following
From this peculiarity of construction, it inevitably follows, that the
Lecture.
letter cannot every where present such ideas openly to the view, as are proper to form the doctrine of the church founded upon it: -- as remarked in our second
Lecture*, passages which even appear to be in opposition to each other not unfrequently occur, one of which delivers the genuine truth, and the other the truth covered with the veil of a mere appearance taken from human ideas. But the choice between them is not without its difficulties.
It is evident, for the construction of coherent doctrine, that one of these classes of passages must be so explained as to be reconciled with the other: but man, in his untutored,
natural state, is not qualified to decide with accuracy by which he ought to abide; and when he studies the Word under the influence of an unpurified heart, he is but too apt to catch at the appearance to the exclusion of the reality; he is ever disposed to kill the prophets, and to stone them that are sent unto Mm, and he is never so well pleased as when he can destroy, spiritually,
the disciples of the Lord, or the pure truths of which the disciples are the depositaries, under the persuasion that he is doing God service, and can allege as his authority the letter of God's Word, of the ambiguities of which he avails himself for the purpose.

That the ambiguities of the letter of the Word are very numerous, -- that it is a sword which tarns every way, -- is a fact which has become proverbial.
Every sect turns it in favour of its peculiar doctrines; and into what a multiplicity of sects the Christian Church has been divided, and what monstrous sentiments have by some of them been maintained, are things well known: yet the most extravagant of them all have professed to found their sentiments upon the Word of God, and have produced passages from its letter which might be
Of this fact, the writers of the Romish Communion construed in their favour.
have not failed to take advantage: the Word of God, on account of its admitting, as to its letter, of such a variety of interpretations, has, by them, been blasphemously denominated Liber Emresiarum, and they invite their opponents to take refuge from its uncertainties in the ever-consistent decisions of a selfconstituted infallible church. If then men have thus parted the Lord's garments among them, and cast lots upon his vesture, (which circumstances are explained in our fifth Lecture,) notwithstanding it has been provided, as will presently be seen, that the books written in the language of Analogy should be accompanied with others in which the leading doctrines of the former are explicitly developed; to what extremes of perversion would they not have gone, had they been left, without such help, to draw their doctrines from the more mysterious
Looks for themselves.

It being then a demonstrable fact, that writings composed in the style which belongs to the absolute Word of God, cannot be understood by the simple and unenlightened, without the help of doctrine, as a lamp to direct their path,
drawn thence by some person or persons endowed with special illumination for the purpose; there arises a necessity, that, ever since a written Revelation has been the medium of conveying the divine will to man, in every church posBessed of such a Revelation, divinely illuminated persons should be raised up,
qualified to deliver, either by oral instruction or by writing, such views of doc-
* r. 65.



trine, founded on that Revelation, as were adapted to the genius of the peop^
among whom they lived, and to the character of the dispensation of which they were the subjects: and there can be no reasonable doubt that the Author of
Revelation would provide the aids necessary to render it effectual to its object.
Under the Jewish dispensation, which, as well as the Jews themselves, was of a very external character, and in which very enlightened views of doctrine would have surpassed the comprehension of the people, little was wanted beyond the literal enunciation of the Mosaic law, all the rituals of which were by them to be observed according to the letter; yet even then teachers arose, who composed codes of morality, and delivered doctrinal precepts, adapted to impress upon the minds of the Jews such of the truths involved in their law as were more especially calculated for their state and capacities: and, under the
Christian dispensation, teachers, gifted with much higher illumination, were raised up, to discover more of the truths involved in the ancient Scriptures, and to declare that w Christ is the end of the Law for righteousness to every one that believeth*;" and that "he that loveth another hath fulfilled thelawj;"
because "the end of the commandment is charity, out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned.''^ Nor can it be reasonably doubted,
that, if any further discoveries of the divine will should ever be necessary, they wT ould be made in a similar manner: nay, many believe that, if not further discoveries, re- discoveries of it have thus been made by Luther and Calvin, to whom some ascribe a spirit of understanding in the Scriptures not much inferior to that enjoyed by the Apostles: indeed, most sectaries entertain a similar opinion of the leaders whom they respectively follow; and though they may be greatly mistaken as to the fact, their belief of it affords a recognition of the
So general, indeed, is the conviction, that without sound doctrine principle.
as a guide, the Word cannot be understood, that many have viewed the labours of that first of modern Institutions -- the British and Foreign Bible Society,
in circulating the Scriptures without note or comment, as pregnant with mischief, and, tacitly adopting the Roman Catholic principle, have imagined, that thus to communicate the Word of God, is in effect to sow the seeds of heresy.
There would have been less room for this apprehension, had the fact not been overlooked, that in the Bible, together with the books which are eminently the Scriptures, are included writings which deliver the leading doctrines of
Divine Wisdom knew that books the former without any recondite meaning.
composed in the purely divine style were liable to be misunderstood by the simple and unintelligent; wherefore it has provided that they should be accompanied with writings intended to fix their general import, and to afford a clew to their safe and profitable interpretation^

2. It may now, we would hope, in some measure appear, that there was reason grounded in absolute necessity for the production of writings of this second class to accompany those of the first: but perhaps it may not immediately be seen that there was any necessity for the production of writings t Oh. xiii. 8.

* Rom. x. 4.
§ It must however be confessed, that many things in these writings also, are, as mnst unavoidably be the ease in all writings of great antiquity, "hard to be understood;" they being full of allusions to circumstances and opinions of which nothing at all is now known,
except by the learned, and but little by them, and containing many words used in a sense peculiar to the writers: hence it is but too true, that some of the greatest theological errors have been founded upon these very writings; as was naturally to be expected when men.
went to the study of ancient writers with minds pre-occupied by modem ideas.

t 1 Tim. I 5.

of any other kind than these. The doctrinal purport of these being more easily intelligible, they seem to have acquired, by degrees, a superior degree of estimation: at least it is certain, that it is from these that ministers most frequently take the subject of their discourses in the pulpit; and probably many would wish that the whole Bible consisted of such compositions, and are somewhat
But to this it may be sufficient to answer, that scandalized that it does not.
had not the Scriptures of plenary inspiration first been given, the others would never have been composed. They where all written by men to whom the compositions which are the Word of God, absolutely, were previously fomiliar; and the kind of inspiration by which they were produced, consisted in endowing the writers with the faculty of discerning the doctrines contained in that Word; to which, therefore, as higher authority, they continually refer.
Indeed, it is a fact, on which something is said in the fifth Lecture, that without the existence of the Scriptures of plenary inspiration in the world, no illumination in the divine things could, in the present state of mankind, be
Accordingly, after the resurrection of the Lord, it is said respecting afforded.
his disciples, "Then opened he their understandings that they should understand the Scriptures* :" And in giving the promise of the Holy Ghost, the
Lord says, "These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with j-ou: but the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto youf:'' that is, he should recall all the Lord's words, and teach them to understand them.
One of the chief effects, then, of the communication of the Holy Spirit, was to be, to enable the disciples to understand the Lord's words, together with the Scriptures, given by plenary inspiration, which are equally his words though communicated in a different manner, --  not to write new Scriptures themselves: and such of them as did write new books of Scripture, must have done it by a special additional inspiration, distinct from that which was common to them all, and which constantly abode with them.
Accordingly, they began their preaching with explaining the ancient Scriptures^; and this seems to have continued to be their usual practice: and all their discourses and writings are filled with the

* Luke xxiv. 45.

It is to be observed, that, in the Bible, no writings are ever called,
simply, "the Scriptures", but those which are written by the Plenary Inspiration: to them the term is applied by way of eminence, and as an ellipsis for the divine or inspired
It will hardly be maintained, that when Peter, (2 Ep. iii. 16,) in contradistincWritings.
tion to the writings of Paul, mentions "the other Scriptures", (ras Aonras ypacpas),
he means to admit that the Epistles of that Apostle are writings of the same kind.
It is to be remembered, that the term "Scriptures "simply means Writings, and that the Greek name for them is the common name for writings: when, therefore, the Apostle Peter,
after mentioning the Epistles of Paul, speaks, of "the other writings", the fair inference is,
that he means to advert to the plenarily inspired Scriptures as writings of another kind, -- 
of that kind which are usually called the Writings by way of eminence.
Believing this to be the Apostle's meaning, I do not think the interpretation is to be accepted which understands by "the other writings", the other writings of Paul, besides those which treat of the specific subject here under discussion: though Schleusner seems to adopt this meaning,
which he gives as that "plerorumque interpretum."
If this is the true meaning, there is not left a shadow of pretence for the notion, that Peter puts his brother Apostle's writings on the same footing with those which are eminently the Scriptures.
Schleusner also shews, that the word here translated "other", is as frequently used in the New Testament in reference to other things of other kinds as to other things of the same kind,
Peter's accurate discrimination on the subject of inspiration is noticed below, p. xvii,

f John xiv. 25, 26.

$ Acts. ii. 16, &c.


light which this illumination, or this mediate and personal inspiration, brought to their minds. If it can be shewn that, in their ordinary discourse or writing,
they ever spoke or wrote from immediate dictation, in those instances their ordinary and personal was exalted into extraordinary and plenary inspiration,
and their language flowed according to the Laws of Analogy, and contained,
what was not the case at other times, a spiritual and divine meaning beyond the outward expression.

If then there are, in the collection called the Bible, writings or books of these two very different classes, it becomes a matter of great importance to
This, therefore, we will attempt; first, in regard discriminate between them.
to the books of the Old Testament; and then of the New.

II. The existence of writings in the Old Testament, written under two species of inspiration, is expressly affirmed by the Jews themselves: they,
indeed, have placed in the second class some which belong to the first; but the error is easily rectified by the testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, who quotes no books, and acknowledges none as the ScripUtres, but those which are written by the Plenary Inspiration, or those in which, in the language of the
Apostle Peter, "the Holy Ghost spake by the mouth of men*" or wrote by their hands.

1. The Jews divided their sav.red books into the Law, the Prophets, and the
Ketubim or Hagiographa, (Writings, or Holy Writings.) (1.) The Law includes the five books of Moses, so called from the preceptive character of great part of their contents r though Moses is to be considered as a prophet, and the
(2.) The division greatest of prophet.3; as indeed he is expressly called, f denominated by them the Prophets, contained all the books which we call the historical ones, written before the Babylonian captivity, viz. those of Joshua,
Judges, Samuel, and Kings; with all those, one only excepted, which we
The former of these they called the Prior or commonly call the prophets.
Anterior Prophets, and the other the Later or Posterior; and they so named them, not, as HorneJ and others have affirmed, "with regard to the time when they respectively flourished;" for it is certain that the writings of some of the later prophets were composed before those of some of the prior', but doubtless for another reason assigned by Leusden: "Quia Anteriores, &c.
Because the anterior prophets relate affairs transacted before, or anterior to, the time of narrating them; whereas the posterior prophets treat of things to happen
(3.) The after, posterior to, or later than, the delivery of the prophecy.§"
division styled Hagiographa contains, according to the modern Jews, the books of Psalms, Proverbs, Job, Canticles, Ruth, Lamentations, Ecclesiastes, Esther,
But it appears certain, by the
Daniel, Ezra, Nebemiah, and Chronicles.
testimony of Josephus||, that Daniel, in his time, was reckoned, as he so clearly ought to be, among the Prophets; and he seems to have been transferred to the Hagiographa, because those books wrere not regularly read in the
Synagogue, and the Rabbins, after the time limited by his prophecy of the seventy weeks for the coming of the Messiah had undeniably expired, became unwilling to read before the people so plain a proof of their error in rejecting

* Acts i. 16.

t Deut. xviii. 15, xxxlv. 10.

% Introduction, vol. ii. p. 149, vol. iv. p. 27. (Ed. 1822 )

§ Phil. Heb. Dis. ii. § viii.

II Ant. B. x. Ch. xi. § 7.



appindex.

xiii the Lord Jesus Christ; and because, also, by placing him among books not regarded as possessing prophetic authority, the weight of his testimony would
Jt also appears well established, that the Lamentations and be diminished.
the other writings of Jeremiah were anciently reckoned as one book; and equally stationed, as is so evidently necessary, among the Prophets.

2. Before we proceed further, it appears necessary to ascertain what is the idea properly belonging to a Prophet and his writings.

It seems extraordinary that so learned a writer as Leusden should pronounce it improper to call all the books so denominated by the Jews the Prophets,
" because some of them are in reality historical books, and differ much from prophetical writings properly so called*;" when it is certain that the seeming impropriety only arises from our attaching the modern idea to the term prophet, and forgetting that of the ancients, and particularly of the Jews.
We now generally think of a Prophet as a foreteller of future events; but this idea is not at all conveyed by the Hebrew name for the character,
which properly implies an utterer or enunciator of communications from God or, as Parkhurst gives it, more generally, an interpreter of GooVs will, to whom lie freely and familiarly revealed himself: in which sense alone is it applicable to Abraham; [Gen. xx. 7;] or to Aaron: "And the Lord said unto Moses,
See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh, and Aaron thy brother shall be thy trophet: thou shalt speak all that I command thee, and Aaron thy brother shall speak unto Pharaoh", -- not a prediction, observe, but a command,

[Ex. vii.

[Ch. iv. 15, 16.]

"that he send the children of Israel out of his land."
1, 2.]
This is illustrated in another place, where the Lord says unto Moses, "Thou shalt speak unto him, `[Aaron,]` and put vsords in his mouth; -- and he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God.^
If then Moses was to Aaron what God is to a prophet, and Aaron was to Moses, what a prophet is to God, it is perfectly evident that, in the original sense of the term, a prophet is one who receives words from God, and declares them to man: he is an enunciator of a divine message, let the subject of that message be what it ma}': and it is only because it frequently happened that divine communications
Telated to things future, that the word at last acquired the signification of a
As the above is the idea constantly attached in predicter of future events.
the Scriptures of plenary inspiration to the word prophet, the Jewish philoThe Hebrew root is logers have endeavoured to find it in the word itself.
m'BBA (K3J); which the celebrated Solomon Jarchi says is formed from another root, noub or nob (2j0> by the addition of an aleph (tf) taken out of the name of God (Q^nbtf): now the word Nan radically signifies to put forth as a plant its buds or fruit, whence, transferred to human speech, it means to utter, which is another kind of putting forth: when therefore from this verb is formed the verb m'BBA, by the addition of an aleph takeu from the name of God, it
The signification thus given to the word means to titter from divine dictation.
fox prophesying is equally clear and weighty: nor does it suffer any detraction from the fancifulness of the etymology: for the meaning of the word is not dependent upon the etymology, but the etymology was invented to account
That the ancient Greeks, from for the well-known meaning of the word.J
whom we have received the word prophet, understood it in a similar sense, is abundantly proved by Schleusner.

* Phil Eeb. Dis. ii. § iii,

f See Gusset. Comm. in voce.


It is quite evident then, that the "word prophet, in the Scriptures, does not merely signify a foreteller of future events, but may be as applicable to
It is also evident, that when the Jews
Anterior as to Posterior Prophets.
gave this name to their sacred writings, they meant to affirm that they were written by immediate divine dictation: and as the propriety of the application is recognised, as will presently be seen, by the Lord Jesus Christ, we have, in this name alone, no contemptible evidence, that the books to which it is applied are the productions of plenary and verbal inspiration.

3. Such being the character of the Prophets, what is that of the Hagio-

grapha?

(1.) Among the books of the Hagiographa, when the catalogue is corrected as above, it is certain that the Lord Jesus Christ only acknowledges as divine the book of Psalms; for wbeH' speaking of the whole Scriptures, he calls it the
Law of Moses, the Prophets, and the Psalms: "All things must be fulfilled,
which were written in the Law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the
Psalms, concerning me* :" and, doubtless, there is no book among those written by plenary inspiration, which does not, either in its literal or mystical sense,
At other times, when he intends to speak of the whole treat at all of him.
Word of God, he calls it, more compendiously, "the Law and the Prophetsf",
;" and then he evidently includes among "the or "Moses and the ProphetsJ
Prophets "the book of Psalms, much of which is palpably, and the whole of it really, of a prophetical character: accordingly, David, the chief author of the
Psalms, is expressly denominated by Peter "a prophet§ ;" which title is never
Ezra himconferred on the writers of the other books called Hagiographa.
self, whom the Jews hold in such honour, has no higher rank given him than that of "a scribe||," »' a ready scribe in the law of Moses^f", and "a scribe of the law of the God of heaven**;" -- titles which lend much support to the opinion,
that he restored the copies of the plenarily inspired Scriptures, and in a manner republished them, but give no countenance whatever to the notion that his
On other occasions the Lord Jesu3
original writings are equally inspired.
Christ calls the whole of the books which are eminently the Scriptures, "the
Lawft", and especially quotes the Psalms by that name.JJ
It is quite certain then, that, by this infallible Authority, the Psalms are placed on an equality with the Law and the Prophets, and are even recognised as a part of them: --  a rank which can on no pretence be claimed for the other books of the
By the same divine authority, Daniel is taken from the
Hagiographa.
Hagiographa, and established in his proper grade among the Prophcts§§ : the book of Lamentations did not require a similar recognition, if it was then reckoned as part of Jeremiah.

An objection or two here demand notice.
(2.) When I say, that this rank can on no pretence be claimed for the other books of the Hagiographa, I am not ignorant that it is customary to affirm,
that where the Lord mentions the Law, the Prophets, and the Psalms, he includes under the latter title the whole of the Hagiographa. but really this is a pure figment, invented by the schools to support the credit of books, the true nature of which they did not know how to estimate, and which they saw, unless they could thus be tacked on to the Psalms, must be confessed to be dis-

* Luke xxiv. 44.
§ Acts ii. 30.

t Matt. v. 17; xi. 13; xxii. 40.
|| Neh. viii. 1. et passim.

tf Matt. v. 18; Luke xvi. 17.

% Luke xvi. 29, 31; xxlv. 27.

f Ezra vii. 6.

U John x. 34.

** Ver. 12. 21.
$§ Matt. xxiv. 1&



XV

owned, by divine authority, as forming part of the proper Word of God.
In behalf of this fiction it is urged, that it was customary with the Jews to connect several books in a volume, and to call them all by the name of the first but no example of their thus connecting so many and so different books together, and giving to them all the name of the first, can be produced. It is urged,
that it was usual thus to unite the books of Judges and Ruth, and to call them both "Judges:" but every one must see that this is by no means a parallel case, since Ruth might, without any obvious impropriety, be considered as a
The union of Jeremiah with Lamentations, which is supplement to Judges.
also pleaded, is still less in point: since these are unquestionably from the pen of one writer. The calling of the books of Ezra and Nehemiah the first and second books of Ezra, is not more to the purpose, since this originated in the mistake of supposing that celebrated "scribe" to be the author of them both.
And to appeal to the book of the twelve minor prophets, is to produce a comparison destitute of all similitude, since this combination is not named, as the case in proof of which it is cited requires, Rosea, but the Twelve.
Indeed, as well might the Divine Speaker, instead of "the Law "have said "Genesis", and
"Judges" instead of "the Prophets", as have named "the Psalms" instead of the Hagiographa: and as well might the learned undertake to prove that he deviated from the peculiar Jewish modes of citation in not using the two first titles, as that he followed it in using the last.*

(3.) Nor is the division of the Scriptures anciently used by the Greeks,
which regards the books of Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Canticles,
as possessing a common poetical character, and thus proper to form a general book together; and which many have maintained to be the division alluded to by the Lord Jesus Christ; at all capable of being better accommodated to his words: though it seems to have been contrived expressly for the purpose.
This theory assumes as its basis, that these five books are the only poetical books in the Bible, and may on that account all be included under the description of psalms or hymns: but beside that none of these, except the proper book of Psalms, (unless it be that of Canticles,) is at all adapted for singing, it is indubitably known, since the labours of Bishop Lowth, that all the prophetical books have as much right to be called poetical as these, the language of them all possessing quite as decided a rhythmical arrangement.
Josephus, also, who,
beside the law and thirteen historical and prophetical books, reckons four others, says of these four, that they "contain hymns to God, AM) precepts for the conduct of human lifef;" whence it is evident, that the title of Hymns or
Psalms, far from being common to all the books since called the poetical one?,

* An example which Home gives of "the Jewish manner of quoting", (vol. il. p. 149,
Note 2,) with a view to Illustrate this subject, is singularly mal-a-propos, and shews to what weak shifts the defenders of the notion are fain to have recourse: ** St. Peter", he observes, "when appealing to prophecies in proof of the gospel, says --  'All the prophets from
Samuel, and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these
In which passage", adds the learned writer, «* the apostle plainly indays,' (Acts iii. 24.)
cludes the books of Samuel in the class of prophets." -- "Who doubts it? And who doubts that when Jesus Christ speaks of "the prophets", he includes the books of Samuel? But
St Peter ought only to have mentioned Samuel when he meant all the prophets, to lend any countenance to the inference, that when Jesus Christ mentions the Psalms he meant all
Peter's mentioning, beside Samuel, "all the prophets", plainly shews the Hagiographa.
that it was not "the Jewish manner of quoting "to cite by the lump, and to destroy all intelligible meaning by palpable misnomers.

t Against Apion, B. i. § 8.

1 G *



was then, as now, limited to the single book which alone answers to the name.
And assuredly the language of the Lord Jesus Christ, is not less justly appropriated to its subject, or employed with less discrimination, than that of the historian Josephus.

Altogether, it is perfectly evident, that the Jews never gave the name of
" the Psalms" to any books but the one which bears it at present, and that the notion that this was a generic name for the whole Hagiographa has nothing to support it but gratuitous assertion: hence it follows, that when the Lord, in the passage above cited, mentions "the Psalms", he uses the title in its proper and specific sense, and meant to select the book so named from those which the
Jews called the Hagiographa, and to place this, to the exclusion of the rest, in the same rank with "the Law and the Prophets", -- to claim for it alone, in conjunction with the Law and the Prophets, the honour of immediate and plenary inspiration.

4. Another proof that the books called the Law and the Prophets, with the
Psalms, are the only books of the Word in the Old Testament, and that those properly named Hagiographa are not so, but merely, as the name implies, the writings of holy men, is afforded by the striking fact, that the latter are never quoted, or in any way referred to, by the Lord or by the Evangelists.
Neither are any of them, except the book of Proverbs, (four or five times,) and the book of Job, (once,} cited or alluded to in the Apostolic Epistles, which so abounds with citations from the Law and the Prophets. We shall see presently that the book of Proverbs is an authentic doctrinal writing of the Jewish Church whence it is properly acknowledged in the authentic doctrinal writings of the
Christian Church: but as such writings, though produced under a special illumination, are not absolutely divine, they are not noticed in those books which are divine indeed; being the compositions of men, though of highly gifted men, they are not recognised by Him who receiveth not testimony from
If their being quoted in the Epistles proved them to belong to the man.*
plenarily inspired Scriptures, we must receive as plenarily inspired Scripture the apocryphal book of Enoch, quoted by Judef, and the comedies of Menander,
cited by Paul J; if not, also, the Phoznomena of Aratus§, and the Chresmoi of
Epimenides.||

5. The distinction, then, between the Hagiographa and those writings which the Scriptures themselves acknowledge as the Scriptures, is marked, by the highest Authority, with a line sufficiently broad and impassable: and it is equally admitted by the Jews themselves, who, though their ideas on the subject do not seem very clear, affirm the inspiration of the Hagiographa to be essentially different in its kind from that of the Law and the Prophets. Home states on this subject^, (and his statement is the same in substance with that of Leusden**,) that "this third class or division of the Sacred Books ha3 r©
ceived its appellation of Cetubim, or Holy Writings, because they were not orally delivered, as the law of Moses was; but the Jews affirm, that they were composed by men divinely inspired, who, however, had no public mission as prophets, and the Jews conceived, that they were dictated not by dreams,
visions, or voice, or in other ways, as the oracles of the prophets were, but that they were more immediately revealed to the minds of their authors:" and what is this but confessing, that they were not positively dictated at all, but were the

* John v. 34.
A Tit. i. 12

f Ver. 14.
% Introd. VoL il. p. 150.

J 1 Cor. xv. 33.

§ Acts xvii. 28.
** Phil. Ueb. Dis. il. § ix.

thoughts of the minds of the author?, the result of a certain illumination which
It is true, that this is described by the Jews in pretty they had received?
high terms; but not in higher than those in which they speak of their Talmud and its Rabbins, all whose writings or sayings, though often avowedly contradictory to each other, they equally affirm to be the productions of inspiration.*
They admit, however, thi3 inspiration to be not the same as that of Moses and
But only two general kinds of inspiration can possibly be conthe prophets.
ceived; the one being that in which the inspired person is entirely possessed by the inspiring power, and, no longer compos sui, is the mere organ for expressing its dictations; -- in which, according to the precisely accurate definition of the Apostle Peter, the prophecy, or thing enunciated, comes not at the -will, or pleasure, of man, but the party speaks as he is moved or actuated by the Holy
Ghost\ ; -- and the other being that in which the speaker or writer still remains his own master, and what he delivers proceeds from his own mind, though from a mind illuminated by a wisdom which is the gift of God; which species of inspiration, also, the same Apostle defines with the same accuracy, when he says, "Even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto you."J Now as the Jews do not affirm that their
Hagiographers possessed the first of these kinds of inspiration, it follows, however they may express it, that they only mean to claim for them the second.

6. A clear distinction, then, we find, between the inspiration of the absolute
Word of God and that of the Hagiographa, comes out full on all hands: and a slight inspection of the principal of these writings will further evince, that an inferior kind of inspiration, but sometimes attended with great illumination, is the highest to which they have any pretensions.

(1.) We have stated above, that, owing to the manner in which the letter of the Divine Word is necessarily constructed, it is according to the order of
Divine Providence, that, under every dispensation which derives its knowledge of divine things from a written Word, men should be raised up to deliver authoritatively, in less ambiguous language, the doctrines proper to guide the faith and practice of that church; which doctrines are all contained in the
Word itself, and are all capable of being confirmed by express declarations of its literal sense. Now who will not readily admit, that the books of Proverbs and Ecclesiastes, though not drawn up in the style that would be chosen by modern composers of Bodies of Divinity, are writings of this character, delivering, in a compendious form, the authentic doctrines of the yet uncorrupt church of Israel? How many plain precepts of true wisdom are presented, in the former part of the book of Proverbs, as the exhortations of Wisdom personified
In the latter part, how many dictates of prudence regarding the conduct of life
In the book of Ecclesiastes, how impressive a sermon is delivered on the unsatisfactoriness of all earthly enjoyments; -- a sermon most admirably adapted to the correction of the Jewish character, which is so prone to place, in earthly
So, after the author of "the Proenjoyments, the whole of its satisfactions !
verbs", has propounded the design of the book, and has stated, almost in so many words, that he is about to deliver a body of doctrine, how suitably to such a design does he begin his instructions with declaring, in a quotation from the plenarily inspired Scriptures which speaks the plain truth in the letter, that f the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge § !" and how appropriately

* Leusd. Phil Heb. Mixt. Dis. xii. § vi. Dis. xiii.
t Ch. iii. 15.

t 2 Pet. i. 21.
§ Prov. i. 7: See Ps. cxi. 10.


as well as pithily does the author of Ecclesiastes close his work with the sum of all true doctrine, concisely stated in language taken from the same source:
" Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man!"*
It is true that both these books contain much figurative language; but they are not written with a uniform regard to the laws of spiritual Analogy, and do not, like those books which are so written, include a spiritual sense in a regular series: thus the words in which the sentiments are expressed were not dictated, as in the other books,
to the pen of the writer, but were selected by himself: and though phrases borrowed from the language of Analogy are frequently introduced, they are such as are still, for the most part, easily intelligible, and must, among the orientals, have been quite familiar.
Indeed, one intention of the book of Proverbs is expressly stated to be, to enable the reader "to understand a proverb,
and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayingsf:" and thus to afford a clew to the doctrinal interpretation of the Holy Word, according to the highest views that were capable of being received under the Jewish dispensation.

(2.) But a considerable portion of the books of the Hagiograplia consists of historical writings; and these, if not directly useful for the doctrinal interpretation of the Word, are yet eminently so for the elucidation of many allusions in it, which would be difficult to understand without a knowledge of some facts respecting which the historical books of the Word itself are silent.
This remark is eminently true in regard to the books of Ezra, Nehemiah, and
Chronicles: whatever then might be the degree of the secondary inspiration enjoyed by the writers and compilers of those books, we can have little hesitation in conceding to them, all that Bishop Tomline requires us to admit respecting the historical books that are absolutely the Scriptures; when he says, "It is sufficient to believe, that, by the general superintendance of the
Holy Spirit, they were directed in the choice of their materials, enlightened to judge of the truth and importance of those accounts from which they borrowed their information, aud prevented from recording any material error;" a description which is as honourable and just, when applied to these Hagiographers,
as it is unjust and degrading when applied to the Anterior Prophets.

(3.) But what shall we say of the Song of Solomon?

Doubtless the reader expects that I should be glad of a plea for taking this book out of the Hagioyrapha, and vindicating its title to a place among the prophets. Many who will deny the Scriptures to be written in the language of Analogy, and will not hear of their containing a spiritual sense throughout, will be ready enough to make us a present of this book, to be thus decyphered, and proved to be really an
But we cannot avail ourselves of the boon: and we edifying performance.
think that modern expositors have erred as much in seeking for spiritual mysteries in this amatory effusion, as in rejecting them in the greater part of the books which are essentially divine.
Here the interpreters are ready to adopt any mode of explanation that will give a religious turn --  to what? to a work which never speaks of God, nor shews by a single trait that God was
Even the true principle of spiritual interever in the thoughts of the writer.
pretation has here been thought of, and endeavoured to be applied: and the analogy of the marriage covenant has been beautifully deduced for this
Speaking of the covenant between God and his purpose by Bishop Lowth.J
% Apud Home, Vol. iv. p. 141, MIL
* EccL xii. 13: See Deut. vL 2.

t Ch. i. 6.

church, the conditions of which are, "on the one part, love, protection, and support; on the other, faith, obedience, and worship pure and devout;" he proceeds thus: "This is that conjugal union between God and his church; that solemn compact so frequently celebrated by almost all the sacred writers under
It is, indeeed, a remarkable instance of that species of metaphor this image.
which Aristotle calls analogical; that is, when, in a proposition consisting of four ideas, the first bears the same relation to the second as the third does to the fourth, and the corresponding words may occasionally change their place3
without injury to the sense. Thus, in this form of expresssion, God is supposed to bear exactly the same relation to the church as a husband to a wife
God is represented as the spouse of the church, and the church as betrothed to
God. Thus also, when the same figure is maintained with a different mode of expression, and connected with different circumstances, the relation is still the same: thus the piety of the people, their impiety, their idolatry, and rejection,
stand in the same relation with respect to the sacred covenant, as cnastity,
modesty, immodesty, adultery, with respect to the marriage contract", &c.
This is a valuable testimony in favour of the principle of Analogy, the regularity which properly belongs to it, and its use in the Word of God; it is also an elegant and clear elucidation of the specific analogy which the marriageunion bears to the connection of God with his church; but to apply this to the erotic strains of the Song of songs, appears a real prostitution. The image is truly said to be of frequent occurrence in the really divine bookVof Scripture but it is there always used with the dignity and gravity suited to the august
Being who is the principal party in the represented union.
It is true, also,
that the image afforded by the conjugal covenant is exactly representative of the union between God and his church: but every love-song is not therefore to be gravely explained of this sacred union: and it will be difficult to say, if this explanation is to be admitted in regard to the Song of Solomon, why it should not be applied to the Idyls of Theocritus, between which and the
Hebrew poem the critics have discovered some extraordinary points of similiIt is true, again, that the language of the book, like that of all oriental tude.
poetry, is, throughout, loaded with figures, some of which, no doubt, are drawn from the language of Analogy: but it is not the containing of a few, nor even of many, phrases and ideas of this kind, that will impart to a book a truly spiritual sense. As hieroglyphical representations were applied to other subjects beside religious ones, so were the forms cf speech drawn from the lower
Thus, of ideas connected with the subject of love, numerous images analogies.
may be found in inanimate and irrational objects.
Various significant phrases of this kind are contained in this poem; and because these give it a mystical air, it has been assumed to be a divine composition, treating of no lower love than that between the Lord and his church. As a sample of Asiatic poetry, the Song of Solomon may be very beautiful; and it certainly is very interesting, as a curious remain of antiquity: but as it contains nothing that savours of holiness, any further than as all mutual love that is sincere and pure is holy, there is room to suspect that the Jews have made a mistake in putting this poem even among their Hagiographa.
Not one reference to it can be fairly traced in the New Testament; though the commentators, sensible how much it stood in need of countenance, have not failed to force a few.

Very different is the book of Job, which abounds with real spiri'nal analogies, and the whole structure of which is doubtless framed to convey an


important spiritual lesson.
Its great antiquity is acknowledged; and indeed it scarcely seems to be a writing belonging to the Mosaic dispensation: but an attempt to estimate the true character of this book would demand an extended discussion, and is not at all necessary to the present argument.

Perhaps we may now be permitted to consider, that the point in question, as far as regards the Old Testament is established; -- that in that division of the
Bible the books properly called the Law and the Prophets, with the Psalms, are alone written by the plenary inspiration; and that the bulk of those denominated Eagiographa consists of doctrinal, and supplementary historical writings, designed to assist the interpretation of the former.

III. In regard to the smaller collection of the New Testament, the case will be found to be the same: and though here we do not possess, respecting the several books which compose it, the recorded testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ to determine to which class they respectively belong, the internal evidence afforded by the books themselves is sufficient to guide our judgment: beside which, strong external evidence may also be offered.

Suppose then, in the New Testament, the four Gospels be considered as possessing a character similar to that of the Law and Anterior Prophets of the
Old Testament, and the Apocalypse as belonging to the same class a3 the
Posterior Prophets; whilst the Acts of the Apostles, and their Epistles, answer to the ancient Eagiographa, though replete with the superior light belonging to a higher dispensation: thus that the Gospels and Apocalypse were written by the primary and plenary, and the Acts and Epistles by the secondary and personal inspiration: in which case in the former books the very words will be inspired, and will contain a spiritual sense within them, and in the latter,
the doctrinal sentiments alone will partake of inspiration.

1. We will not here offer any examples to shew, that the Gospels and
Apocalypse contain a spiritual sense, which is the necessary consequence of
But we may plenary inspiration; some are given in the Lectures themselves.
observe, (1.) as some sort of external evidence, that an idea of the greater sanctity, and more immediate divinity, of the Gospels than of the Epistles, exI take a few testimonies tensively prevailed in the early ages of Christianity.
hastily from Lardner.

Ignatius speaks of "fleeing to the Gospel as the flesh of Jesus, and to the
Justin Martyr says, "The Gospels
Apostles, as the presbyters of the church.''''*
were read publicly as well as the Old Testamentf;" but he does not say the
Irenaeus says, "the doctrines of the Apostles are agree'
same of the Epistles.
able to the Sacred ScripturesJ;" thus distinguishing them from the Scriptures
Augustine says, "In the New Testament, the four Gospels have themselves.
the higJiest authority.^

(2.) That the Gospels are written by the plenary inspiration, is also what any man would naturally expect, who reflects on the nature of the matters which they contain; for surely no language but that of plenary inspiration can
The be worthy of recording the actions and discourses of the Incarnate God.
subject is too eminently sacred, and too profoundly important, to be easily compatible with the supposition, that He to whom it relates would suffer the

* Gospel History, vol. iii. p. 178, 8vo. ed.

t Vol. iil. p. 262.

% lb. p. 393.

§ VoL xii. p. 302.

narratives of it, which have actually been received as authentic and venerated as divine through all ages of the church, to be composed in any but the truly
If the books of Moses and the Anterior Prophets,
divine style of writing.
which are chiefly of the historical kind, recording the dealings of God with the children of Israel, were, on account of the spiritual signification of the things of which they treat, delivered in the style which constitutes a writing the absolute Word of God, and were, as we have seen, acknowledged as such by the Word Incarnate; much more should we expect that the Authentic accounts of the Incarnation, Life, Death, Resurrection, and Glorification, of the
Word made Flesh, would be given by the same inspiration, and would equally
All such parts of them as record the disbelong to the written Word.
courses of the Lord Jesus Christ, if they only faithfully record them, must be
For, as is shewn in the Lectures, all revelation of the of this character.
Divine Truth flows from God, who is in the inmost of all things, into the world of nature, and there clothes itself with natural expressions; whence it necessarily includes spiritual and divine ideas in its bosom which do not appear upon the surface: now if we believe the Lord Jesus Christ, while on earth, to have been the Divine Truth itself personified, -- to have been "the Word which "was with God", and which "was God*,'' "made Fleshf", then must all his words have been divine in the most absolute sense; they must have flowed from the Divinity resident within him, and must have been the proper expressions, in natural language, supplied from the human part of his constitution, of the pure Divine Wisdom: accordingly, as is shewn in the second
LectureJ, he himself claims for them a spiritual and divine meaning. And all the actions of this wonderful Being must have been equally expressive.
For,
as is shewn in ttie third Lecture, none of the objects in outward nature are arbitrary creations, -- mere shells of matter unconnected with any spiritual essence, but are actual outbirths from things of a superior order, --  developements in a lower sphere of purer existences in a higher, and first originating in their prototypes in the Divine Nature, for the expression of which they thus afford the proper corresponding types. Now if this is the character of all the works of Divinity, it must equally be the character of all the actions of a
Being who had Divinity within him. As every word which the Lord Jesus
Christ spoke while on earth, he spoke from the Divinity within him; so every work which he performed, he performed from the same Source; and both must equally have been expressions of divine affections and ideas. When he spoke,
he could not but communicate divine instruction; and when he acted, he could not but communicate divine instruction also; only, as the commentators affirm of many typical events in the Old Testament, he then communicated instruction by actions instead of words.
Is it then to be supposed, that the just recording of actions so weighty, the true import of which might be lost by the slightest misstatement, or by the use, in describing them, of a single inappropriate expression, would not be provided for by a plenary and verbal inspiration? The recording of the most wonderful of all events that have evei been transacted on the theatre of the universe, and the most pregnant with eternal consequences, is too holy an ark to be touched with unhallowed hands and all hands must here be regarded as unhallowed, even those of the holiest of men, if in any respect actuated by "the will of men", -- if not entirely, to the exclusion of all human operation, possessed and "moved by the Holy Ghost."
f Vcr. 14.

* John i. 1.

% P. 41, 42.


(S.) But proof quite demonstrative of the plenary and verbal inspiration of the Evangelists, might, I am satisfied, be drawn out of the famous controversy on the origin of the three first Gospels: but to do any justice to this argument would require an extended discussion; and our limits will here confine us to a brief statement.

No one can have read the New Testament with any attention, without having observed, that there is, among the three first Gospels, a considerable similarity, which extends so far, that they frequently detail occurrences in the very same words.
This has given rise to an opinion, that they, in part at least,
copied from each other; and as the resemblance is greatest between Matthew and Mark, it became usual with many to consider the Gospel of Mark as a mere
More accurate examination, however, has abridgment of that of Matthew.
shewn, that this is a mistake; and it has even been proved to be in the highest degree probable, that the Evangelists never saw each other's compositions, and quite certain that not one of them copied from either of the others in preparing his own.
This beiug ascertained, the critics, to account for their resemblances,
had recourse to the supposition, that some prior document, since lost, was extant before any of the Gospels was written, and that the three first Evangelists,
though they did not copy from each other, all drew from one coramonxsource.
But it was soon found that the supposition of one previous document would by no means account for all the circumstances of the case: and whoever wishes to see the extent of gratuitous supposition which the advocates of this theory are compelled to employ, before they can make it yield even a possible solution of the difficulty, should consult Bishop Marsh's elaborate Essay on the origin of the three first Gospels, appended to his translation of Michaelis on the New
Testament: the learned writer is obliged to conjure up no fewer than ten imaginary sets of memoirs, before he can find sufficient materials for the construction of these Gospels: and, after all, his hypothesis has been shewn, by Bishop
Randolph, Mr. Veysie, and others, not completely to explain the phenomena,
and, if it did, to be itself attended with difficulties which render its truth imOther attempts to account for the coincidences and variations of the possible.
three first Evangelists, upon the supposition of their being drawn from prior documents, have been made: but their failure has been such as completely to prove, that the theory of their copying from previous documents is as incapable of solving the circumstances of the case, as that of their copying from one another.

What then must be the conclusion?
The facts, be it remembered, are these
A frequent verbal agreement occurs among the three Evangelists, and this,
not only when they relate the discourses of the Lord Jesus Christ, where some agreement might be expected; but when they are narrating facts.

But it is evident, that if two or three eye-witnesses of certain facts were afterwards to draw up an account of them, though they might agree in the main circumstances, they would never relate them in precisely the same words.

Where, then, two or more merely human historians relate their facts in precisely the same words, we have a sure proof that they either copied from each other, or from some common document accessible to them all.

But it appears to be certain, that the coincidences of the Evangelists cannot be accounted for from either of these causes.



What solution then remains, but that they drew from a common source of a different nature; viz. from the Spirit of God, which not only inspired them in regard to the facts which they were to record, (which degree of inspiration,
even, is totally incompatible with the picking and culling, altering and omitting processes which the other theories involve,) but dictated to their pens the
This is, in reality, the most very words in which they should record them?
natural solution of the difficulty; or rather, it is a solution of the case which removes all difficulty: since the circumstances are found to admit of no other,
it is the only possible one, also; and, to those who admit the possibility, which,
I believe, none have ever denied, of plenary and verbal inspiration, it is equally easy and satisfactory.

And if this will account for the verbal agreements of the Evangelists, it will equally account for their variations: but that is a question which we will not take up here.
Something is said upon it in the sixth Lecture.

There is then, unquestionably, very strong reason for supposing, that the
Gospels are written by plenary inspiration, and, of course, contain a spiritual sense within the outward expression: and surely as much may be said of that evidently symbolic and mysterious composition, the Apocalypse. We may then safely assume, that these books are the plenarily inspired writings, --  the
Law and the Prophets, --  of the New Testament.

2. And it will be found, on a careful examination, that the other books of the New Testament are its Hagiographa, and are to be understood, except when they relate visions or prophecies, b}T their literal expression alone; that they contain the doctrines of the Christian religion, with the actions of some
»f its first promoters, written by men whose minds were under a general illumination from the Spirit of God.

(1.) In application to these books, the nature of inspiration is accurately laid down by Dr. A. Clarke, in the words of Dr. Whitby, one of the most learned and highly esteemed of the Commentators on the New Testament: but
I choose to take his testimony from Dr. Clarke, because it thus comes as the decision both of Church-of-England and of Methodist orthodoxy.
Dr. W.,
indeed, applies his assertions to all the writers of the New Testament; but it is remarkable, that he finds bis proofs in the Epistolary compositions alone.
His words are these

" I contend only for such an inspiration or divine assistance of the sacred writers of the New Testament, as will assure us of the truth of what they wrote,
whether by inspiration of suggestion, or direction only; but not for such an inspiration as implies, that even their words were dictated, or their phrases suggested, by the Holy Ghost.
This, in some matters of great moment, might be so; St. Paul declaring that * they spoke the things which were given them of
God, in the words which the Holy Ghost teacheth,' (1 Cor. ii. 13;) if that relate not to what the Holy Ghost had taught them out of the Old Testament.
But that it was not always so, is evident, both from the consideration that they were Eagiographers, who are suffered to be left to the use of their own words and from the variety of the style in which they write*, and from the solecisms which are sometimes visible in their compositions; and more especially from their own words, which manifestly shew, that, in some cases, they had no such suggestion from the Holy Ghost, as doth imply, that he had dictated those
For instance, when St. Paul declares his will or purpose to words unto them.

* This however, as is shewn in the Lecture above, is not a conclusive reason.


do what he was hindered by the providence of God from doing; as when he
* When I go into Spain, I will come to you,' (ch. xv. 24.)
says to the Romans:
For though he might, after his
« I will come by you into Spain,' (ver. 28.)
enlargement, go into the west, where St. Clement says he preached; and even into Spain, as Cyril, Epiphanius, and Theodoret, say he did; yet it is certain he did not designedly go to Rome in order to an intended journey into Spain.
And when he says to the Corinthians, * I will come to you when I pass through
Macedonia,' (1 Cor. xvi. 5,) and yet confesses, in his second Epistle (i. 15, 1C
17,) that he did not perform that journey: for it is not to be thought the Holy
Ghost should incite him to promise, or even to purpose, what he knew he would not perform. This also we learn from all those places in which they do express their ignorance, or doubtfulness, of that which they are speaking of; as when
St. Paul says, 1 1 know not whether I baptized any other,' (1 Cor. i. 16:) and again, 4 Perhaps I will abide with you, and winter with you,' (1 Cor. xvi. 6:)
and when St. Peter says, ' By Sylvanus, a faithful brother, as I suppose, I have
For these words do plainly shew, that in written unto you.' (1 Pet. v. 12.)
This, lastly, may all these things they had no inspiration or divine assistance.
be gathered from all those places in which they only do express their hope,
and that conditionally, of doing this or that; as in these words:
' I hope to see you in my journey,' (Rom. xv. 2:) * I will come unto you quickly, i/the Lord will:' (I Cor. iv. 19:) ' I hope to stay some time with you, if the, Lord per-
' / hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy quickly to mit:' (1 Cor. xvi. 7.)
' And / trust that I mvself also shall come quickly;'
you;' (Phil. ii. 19, 23.)
' These things I write, hoping to come to thee quickly; but if I should
(24.)
tarry, that thou mayest know how to behave thyself in the church of God;'
' I hope by your prayers, to be given unto you;' (Philem.
(1 Tim. iii. 14, 15.)
' This will we do, if the Lord permit;' (Heb. vi. 3:) ' I hope to come to
22.)
For spes est incertce rei nomen; --  the
3'ou.' (St. John, 2 Ep. 12, 3 Ep. 14.)
word hope implies an uncertainty; whereas the Holy Spirit cannot be uncertain of any thing; nor can we think he would inspire men to speak so uncertainly; and there can be no necessity, nor even a use, of a divine assistance to enable a man to express his hopes, seeing all men do, by natural reflection,
know them."

It will douhtless be admitted, that Dr. Whitby has here proved, with perfect clearness, that the New Testament has its Hagiographa as well as the Old.
Thus he has proved, that the Apostolical Epistles are not writings of plenary inspiration, and that the personal inspiration of the first teachers of Christianity consisted in a general illumination and divine direction, but did not extend to
I will only add a few remarks upon a passage in their their very words.
writings, which, while it plainly declares that their inspiration was not in general more immediate than this, has mistakenly been supposed to imply also, that on some occasions what they delivered was the absolute Word of the Lord.

(2.) The Apostle Paul, when giving his advice on certain questions relating to the marriage state, says, "But I speak this by permission, not of commandPresently he says, "And unto the married / command, yet not I, but ment" *
the Lord, Let not the wife depart from her husband: but and if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband: And let not the husband put away his wife.
Again he

But to the rest speak T, not the Lord. y,

\

* 1 Cor. vii. 6.

f Ver. 10,11,12.



dence, -- not a part of religious sentiment or practice."

says, "Now concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord: yet I
give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be faithful."'*
Again, respecting a widow's remaining single, he says, "She is happier if she
80 abide, after my judgment: and I think also that I have the Spirit of God."\
Here he expressly gives his own judgment, as something distinct from, and inferior to, the positive command of the Lord, and not even infallible; and yet as the result of a certain inspiration, --  of his possessing the Spirit of God. He plainly teaches then, that his own personal inspiration consisted in a certain general illumination of the understanding: but what is the commandment of
Authors tell us, "that the subject the Lord, which he considers so superior?
of which the Apostle here delivers his opinion, was a matter of Christian pru-
" But", they say, "the
Apostle's declaration, that as to this particular matter, he spoke by permission and not of commandment, strongly implies, that in other things, in things really of a religious nature, he did speak by commandment from the Lord.
Accordingly, in the same chapter, when he had occasion to speak of what was matter of moral duty, he immediately claimed to be under divine direction in what he wrote: And unto the married I command, yet not I but the Lord, Let not the
But the distinction between points of duty wife depart frontier husband'."$
and of prudence here laid down, will not hold through: for the advice which the Apostle introduces with, "But unto the rest speak I, not the Lord", does relate to a question of moral duty: it is no less than this: Whether the reception of Christianity is a justificatory plea for putting away a wife or deserting a husband: and the Apostle decides it thus: "If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her
The decision is worthy of a judgment enlightened, as the away§:" &c.
Apostle affirms of his, by "the Spirit of God:" again then we ask, What is that commandment of the Lord which he considers so superior?
Evidently, it is the express decision of the Lord himself, pronounced while in the world, and recorded in the books of plenary inspiration: and we find the very commandment which Paul says is not his but the Lord's, in Matt. xix. 9, Mark x. 11,
12, and Luke xvi. 18: and the first Gospel was certainly written, and the others very probably, before this Epistle to the Corinthians: But if it can be proved that he had not learned the fact in this way, then it will follow, that,
as he seems to intimate in Gal. i. 12, he had received by immediate revelation,
a knowledge of the chief passages of the Lord's life and discourses in the world and this may afford countenance to the opinion which many have entertained, that he was the real author of the third of the Gospels, and that it was only written by Luke as his amanuensis. However he became acquainted with it, certain it is that he knew that the Lord had delivered such a commandment,
and that he speaks of this as a different thing from his own customary and
Just in the same manner he distinguishes, on other occapersonal inspiration.
sions, between his own sentiments and the authoritative declarations of the
Scriptures themselves; as when he says in the next chapter but one, "Say I
these things as a man? or saith not the Law the same also?"|| and quotes a
Plainly then does this Apostle avow, what Peter passage from Deuteronomy.
affirms of him, that he wrote according w tne wisaom given unto him; and fairly

* Ver. 25.

t Ver. 40.

X Parry on the Inspiration of the Apostles, &c, apud Home, vol. i. p. 5G3.

§ Ver. 12 to 15.

|| Ch.ix.8.


does lis acknowledge that this inspiration is different from that, the subjects of which spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.

Altogether it appears perfectly evident, that the Epistles are doctrinal writings, given through eminently illuminated men, to afford a clew to the doctrinal interpretation of the plenarily inspired Scriptures; respecting which they testify, among other things, that they are written by a more immediate inspiration, and, differently from themselves, contain a spiritual sense within the covering of the Letter; some of their testimony to which effect is given in our second Lecture.*

Without the slightest wish then to depreciate either the Apostolic writings or the Hagiographa of the Old Testament, it must, we think, be conceded, that the Gospels and Apocalypse, the Law and the Prophets, are compositions of a
All that is said, by modern definers of Inspiration, of the very different order.
sacred books in general, we readily concede to be true of the writings which we have now been considering: these we leave where the critics have placed them: but we would fain elevate the others far higher.
Respecting the character of the Apostolic writings in particular, I fully accept the definitions of the generally approved Author last quoted: "When they acted as writers, recording Christianity for the instruction of the church in all succeeding times, I
apprehend, that they were under the guidance of the Spirit as to the subject of which they treated; that they wrote under his influence and direction; that they were preserved from all error and mistake in the religious sentiments they expressed; and that, if any thing were inserted in their writings, not contained in that complete knowledge of Christianity of which they were previously possessed, (as prophecies for instance,) this was immediately communicated to them by revelation from the Spirit.
But with respect to the choice of words, I know not but they might be left", --  says our author, who might safely have omitted the words of hesitation, -- "to the free and rational exercise of their own minds, to express themselves in the manner that was natural and familiar to them, while at the same time they were preserved from error in the
All this is true: but it is greatly to be lamented, that ideas they conveyed."!
what is true of a part of the writings contained in the Bible, -- of the hagiographical compositions, only, -- should inadvertently have been extended to the
As it is obvious to every student and believer of the Bible that some whole.
of its writers were under the influence of a secondary and personal inspiration,
it has been concluded that this was the case with them all: and as it is evident that writings thus produced can have none but the plain grammatical sense;
whilst the radical difference between compositions of this character and those which are the result of an immediate divine afflatus has been overlooked; many have at length concluded, that there is no real sense but the grammatical one throughout the Word of God.

* P. 31, &c, and p. 43 to 49.

f Parry apud Home, voL i. p. 561.



