
=== Notes for Parents

After the first miracle at Cana the Lord with His disciples went down to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of the Passover. Our story today is about something that happened on their journey back to Galilee.

Between Judea in the south and Galilee in the north lay the province of Samaria. It was so called from the city of Samaria, which had been the capital of the kingdom of Israel before it was conquered by Assyria. The foreigners who were sent in by the king of Assyria to take the place of the people of Israel kept Samaria as their chief city and came to be called the Samaritans. And in our lesson we find that their descendants were still despised and shunned even after seven hundred years, and in spite of the fact that from the first they had accepted the God of the Jews as an object of worship and had learned much from their sacred Scriptures.

The Samaritans were Gentiles, but our story shows us that they were well-disposed and open-minded, for they believed the Lord much more readily than did most of the Jews. The Lord told the woman of Samaria plainly that He was the promised Messiah, and when she and her people had listened to His teaching, they accepted Him as the Christ, the savior of the world.

It is this acceptance which can turn the water of truth which everyone to some extent draws from the Word of God — Jacob's well — into living water springing up into everlasting life. It is only as we see and acknowledge that Jesus Christ was indeed "God with us," the "Word made flesh," that we begin to find the real truth in the Word and to love it. Sometimes people — people who honestly think they are looking for truth in the Scriptures — say that of course Jesus was limited by the ideas and conditions of His times, and that if He had lived in our country and our times, He would have said different things. They are thinking of Jesus as merely the best man who ever lived and setting their own opinions up as more valid than His. Their ideas are like the pitcher of the woman of Samaria, which could draw only a little water from the deep well. But when we believe that Jesus was God Himself, living for a time in a finite human like ours, we know that He always spoke the eternal truth and that only as we receive His teachings and try to form our lives according to them can His Spirit enter our souls with the life of heaven. As He had told Nicodemus in Jerusalem just before the time of our story for today, "Ye must be born again," and, "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God."

