
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Here again the Philistine temptation is an important topic, as well as the various aspects of truth presented in the lesson: the Judges, Samuel, the kings, the weapons, and the agricultural implements. The note on verse 21 can well be tied in with the discussion of the meaning of the Philistines.

---
In 1 Samuel 7:15-17 we learn that Samuel judged Israel "all the days of his life," holding court in a circuit of three towns near the center of the land. Samuel, we recall, represents a necessary return to a childlike state of trust and obedience after we have experienced the unhappy results of trying to direct ourselves. Samuel lived to anoint David as the second king of Israel. His death (1 Samuel 25:1) came before that of Saul but after David had risen to popularity. Samuel, as prophet and judge, represents the Word of the Lord, accepted in childlike faith, instructing and judging us as we pass from a state of reliance on our own ideas of right to one of intelligent acceptance of the Lord's guidance. Just as Moses had to remain in the land of Midian for forty years before he was prepared for his call to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt, so Samuel had to retain the actual power in the Holy Land until the people had reached the point when they would accept as king a man "after the Lord's own heart."

Throughout the Word a king represents truth (or falsity) ruling.

Recall the Lord's answer to Pilate in John 18:37. The three kings of Israel all represent the Lord's truth ruling in our lives, but they represent that truth seen by us in three different ways, at three different levels of understanding. All three of these levels are adult states and they are necessary stages in our regeneration. Ideally we might live out our lives under Samuel's direction, and some few people do. We recall that when the people asked for a king, Samuel was displeased because he felt himself rejected, but the Lord told him that the people, in rejecting him, were really rejecting the Lord. The Lord then told him to do as the people asked. We are not in an ideal state and we must choose our leaders in freedom, but the Lord provides that with each person who truly wants to do right, the childlike trust represented by Samuel shall remain in control until he has come by the way of experience into the recognition of the higher rational as his leader. David would not have been accepted by Israel at first. Only their experience with the results of Saul's weakness made them see David's strength.

Saul was accepted immediately because of his appearance, because "when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward." The shoulder corresponds to power. The people were looking for a strong man to lead them against their enemies. Saul as king represents divine truth in its hard, external aspect, untempered by mercy, as it appears to those who have not yet gained any depth of experience and wisdom; to young adults, for example, who are just beginning to form their own independent judgments as to conduct. Saul was completely victorious in his battles with the Ammonites (1 Samuel 11) when they attacked Jabesh—Gilead, because Gilead, in the territory of Gad across the Jordan, represents good works, and even a superficial understanding of the truth is able to recognize and repel the false arguments which would blind and enslave the affection for doing external good works.

But the Philistines, who are the attackers in our lesson today, were an enemy of a different and more subtle character, an internal enemy, the ever-present and powerful temptation to rest satisfied with knowing what is right without making the effort to do it. It is obvious that truth understood only superficially cannot overcome this enemy. Samuel had told Saul to wait at Gilgal seven days, until he should come and sacrifice to the Lord and assure victory. But Saul was impatient. It appeared to him that his men were leaving him, that the delay was weakening his military strength, and finally he took matters into his own hands and offered the sacrifice himself without waiting for Samuel. Young people almost always feel a good deal of sympathy for Saul in his impatience, which is good evidence of the truth of the correspondence. When we are young and active, we do not like to wait for the right time and way of doing what we believe ought to be done. We may know that we ought to wait, as Saul did, but things seem to be going from bad to worse. We judge by appearances and act before our remains of childlike trust have had time to fulfill their true mission. Actually we put our own judgment before the Lord's. The failure which inevitably results shows us that the principle on which we have been depending is not adequate, that if our good intentions are to have good results they must have a new principle of a different degree from the mere external judgment, something which goes deeper. The kingdom is to be rent from Saul and given to another. "The Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart, and the Lord hath commanded him to be captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee."

Judgment from mere appearances fails, and the first lesson learned is: "Wait on the Lord; be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the Lord." (Psalm 27:14) The strengthening of the heart is what the Lord is waiting for. Patience is a virtue which is developed only through trial. Saul was impatient. Young people are impatient, for example, with the slow advance of reforms. To them any action seems better than no action. They must learn by experience to wait as well as to work. Saul's whole strength was in the Lord's help. When he set his own judgment before the Lord's command through Samuel, his efforts were doomed to failure. So it is with us whenever we judge by appearances only and imagine that the Lord's providence is failing and that our own way will bring success. Whenever we act contrary to the Lord's commandments, even though we tell ourselves that we are doing it to hasten the accomplishment of a good purpose, we cut ourselves off from the only power that can bring about good. For our only real strength is the Lord's strength in us. The Lord knows best. "A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I the Lord will hasten it in his time." (Isaiah 60:22)

Saul's accomplishments were sufficient to accustom the people to the rule of a king, to arouse their loyalty, to establish their courage, to teach them to meet the demands made upon them; and Saul was able to overcome external enemies and partially to overcome more internal ones. But Saul was impatient and self-assertive, superficial in his judgments, and prone to place these judgments above the explicit commands of the Lord. In the same way, the external understanding of truth is sufficient to accustom us to accept the truth as our leader and to develop our ability to stand up for it bravely as occasion requires. But it is not sufficient to show us the necessity for delays or to get to the root of evils within ourselves and in the world. Verses 19 to 22 add an interesting thought. Tools of all kinds represent truths. Weapons of war are truths of use in fighting evils. Farm implements are truths necessary for developing and preparing uses, the "fruits and grains" to be made part of the life. The Philistines are those who like to know truths but have no desire to live them. In this passage they suggest the people who enjoy intellectual discussion — the sharpening of the mind — but are anxious to keep the "religious" people from doing the same thing except under their direction and control, and especially unwilling to have arguments developed which might expose their own weaknesses and selfish motives.

