
=== Junior

The Juniors will be interested in studying Israel's position in relation to the Philistines, the relative size of the armies, and the reasons why the people wanted a king and were pleased with Saul. They should look up the Bible references and study the map. Saul's strength and weakness make excellent lesson material for this age.

---
For a time the people were satisfied to have no leader except Samuel. Read 1 Samuel 7:15-17, and find on your map Ramah, Samuel's home, and the three places where he went to hold court. Samuel was a great judge, but he was not a fighting man, and the enemies of Israel were troubling the people. So they asked Samuel to give them a king. They saw that the other nations had kings who led them in battle, and they wanted one to lead them against their enemies. Samuel did not like the idea — he knew they should have been satisfied to let the Lord lead them — but the Lord told him to do as the people asked, and he told him whom to anoint as the first king. It was Saul.

Why were the people so pleased with Saul?

In chapter 11 we learn that Saul won his first battle, which was against the Ammonites. The people were delighted, and went to Gilgal and "renewed" Saul's kingship there. Then (chapter 12) Samuel made a solemn address to the people at Gilgal. He reminded them how he had served the Lord from his childhood, and asked them to say if he had ever done a wrong to any man. The people agreed that he never had. Not many people could win this reputation, could they? Then Samuel told them that if they hoped to prosper, they must obey the Lord, and he called down a storm of thunder and rain as a testimony to the people's wickedness. The people were very much frightened and begged him to pray for them. He promised to do this, but charged them solemnly that both they and their king must obey the Lord.

What enemy now rises against them?

What had made the Philistines angry?

Jonathan was Saul's son. The Philistines were camped at Michmash and Saul's army was gathered around him at Gilgal. Samuel had told Saul (1 Samuel 10:8) to wait for him at Gilgal seven days, and not to go into battle until Samuel had come and offered sacrifices. What did Saul do?

What excuse did Saul give?

We have seen before that people in the Bible are sometimes punished very severely for faults which seem to us not very great. But these faults always involve direct disobedience to the Lord, and that is never a small fault.

What did Samuel tell Saul?

In the Bible a king always pictures the principle, good or bad, which rules in our lives. A bad king is the principle that everybody else should do what pleases us; a good king is the principle that we should obey the Lord and help our neighbor. Saul, Israel's first king, was chosen for his looks. He meant well, but he was not very wise. Young people generally mean well, but like Saul they are sometimes in too much of a hurry. They do what seems right to them without taking time to think whether or not it is really right. It seemed to Saul that his men were leaving him and that if he did not hurry into battle, he would not be strong enough to conquer. Can you think of any stories in the Bible so far, that were in the history of Israel which Saul knew, which should have taught him better?

The Lord had often showed Israel that it was not their own strength which gave them victory. They could conquer only by means of the Lord's strength, as they obeyed Him. This is just as true of us. Whenever we think we know better than the Lord, we are headed for disaster. We have to make obedience to the Lord the first of our ruling principles. This was why Samuel told Saul that his kingdom would not continue.

What kind of man did Samuel say the next king would be?

Verses 19 to 22 tell us one of the ways in which the Philistines had been able to keep Israel in subjection.

What occupation did the Philistines keep in their own hands?

What was the result?

