
=== Notes for Parents

Our lesson for today is about the first king of Israel. This, we recall, was a new kind of leadership. The first leaders were the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The Jews then were really just a family, growing in numbers and developing several "collateral" branches, but still living together and recognizing as the head of their family its oldest male member. Then followed the period in Egypt when they had no leader, but were first protected and then enslaved by the ruler of Egypt. Then Moses was raised up to lead them out of Egypt and through the wilderness and to give them at Sinai the commandments and laws he received from the Lord for their guidance. Moses was the lawgiver. He died when they reached the border of the Holy Land, at which point Joshua, the military leader, took command and led them in the conquest of the Holy Land. Then followed the period of the Judges, a series of local leaders, whom the Lord raised up to conquer particular enemies. This was a time of disorganization when "every man did that which was right in his own eyes."

The last of the Judges was Samuel. Samuel was the only one of the Judges who was recognized by all the people, and this was because he was seen to be a prophet also, and they had not had a prophet for a long time. But Samuel was not a military leader, and the people wanted a king who would gather an army and lead them against their enemies. Samuel did not lose his position when the first king was chosen. He represented the Lord to the people all his life, and the Lord gave him the duty of anointing the second as well as the first king.

The first king was Saul. The people were delighted with him because he stood head and shoulders above all of them and they felt that surely he would be a leader whom their enemies would respect. But like many strong, brave young people, Saul was more energetic than wise. He won his first battle against the Ammonites and that made him self-confident. So when he was to fight against the Philistines, who had become the virtual rulers of the land, he did not wait for Samuel's help as he had been told to do. Samuel was to come and offer sacrifices, but Saul became impatient and offered them himself, afterward excusing himself to Samuel on the ground that his men were getting nervous and deserting, and he did not dare to wait. Most of us have had times when we were not willing to "wait on the Lord." We really know that the Lord's way is best, but in the stress of some difficulty we trust ourselves instead of the Lord. Saul was told by Samuel that his kingdom would not continue. We have to have a wiser leader than our own judgment. We have to learn patience and trust.

