
=== Primary

See what the children can remember of the story of Samuel's call. Then remind them why the people wanted a king and go on to the story for the day. There will be no difficulty here in teaching the whole story, and the lesson of Saul's impatience and its result can be understood even at this age. The children will also be interested in verses 19-22.

---
Who was the last of the Judges?

He was the last because the people decided they wanted a king, so that they could be like the other nations.

But Samuel would still be the Lord's prophet, the one who spoke for the Lord.

So the Lord told Samuel to anoint a man named Saul to be their king. The people were pleased with Saul because he was taller than any of the other men. The Bible says: "He was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward." So the fighting men were glad to have him for their leader, and he easily gathered an army.

But Saul did not turn out to be as good a king as they expected.

You know we can't always judge things by their looks. Saul was big and strong and brave, but he was not very wise. Samuel was still the Lord's prophet and Saul knew that he ought to do what Samuel told him to do.

So Saul easily gathered an army, and he won a great victory over an enemy called the Ammonites.

Then a very strong enemy, the Philistines, prepared to attack Israel. What had made them angry?

Jonathan was Saul's son.

Samuel had told Saul to go to Gilgal and wait for him seven days and he would then come and offer sacrifices.

Saul knew that Samuel spoke for the Lord and that he ought to obey. So he waited seven days at Gilgal for Samuel to come.

What did he do on the seventh day when Samuel had not arrived?

Are you ever in such a hurry to do something that you forget to obey? Saul had hardly finished his sacrifice when Samuel came.

What excuse did Saul give?

What did Samuel tell him?

What kind of man would the next king be?

Why did the Israelites not have swords and spears to fight with?

