
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of Samuel and Saul, their relation to each other, and Saul's weakness and its results are particularly important for this age. The recollection of this lesson may save them from making serious mistakes after they leave home. They will meet the Philistine temptation very soon and need to recognize it for what it is and to be armed against it.

---
Samuel was the last of the Judges and the only one of them to be recognized by the whole nation as its Judge. The other Judges represent particular truths drawn up by the Lord from our memories to help us overcome particular faults that are bothering us. When the fault is overcome, the particular truth drops back into our general knowledge. But Samuel represents a general truth which our experience with our faults and weaknesses finally leads us to recognize. It is the truth that in relation to the Lord we are always little children, weak and ignorant, and that we ought to look to Him as our Father and trust and obey Him whether we understand His commands or not.

This does not mean that we should not go on trying to understand. The Lord has given us our brains and He expects us to use them, even though He knows we shall make mistakes. So long as we try to do right and recognize Samuel as our Judge, the Lord can help us to profit by our mistakes and to understand more and more. This is what is meant by the fact that Samuel lived to anoint the first two kings of Israel, Saul and David, and that he continued to judge Israel even while Saul was king. Read 1 Samuel 7:15-17. Saul is believed to have reigned nearly forty years, although the exact time is not stated in the Bible, and Samuel lived until about four years before Saul's death.

The three great kings of Israel represent successive ruling principles, the Lord's truth understood in three different ways. Saul represents a natural understanding of the truth, such as younger people are apt to have. It desires to serve the Lord and is eager for action but impatient under delays and, reasoning from appearances, is liable to set itself up as a better judge of what should be done than even the Lord. Saul was able to overcome the Ammonites, but not the Philistines. Chapter 11 tells about his first great victory. The Ammonites were descendants of Lot and picture external evils. Even a superficial understanding of the truth is able to show us that we must live outwardly moral and useful lives.

But the Philistine temptation is of a different kind. It is possible for a person to lead a very upright external life and still be inwardly selfish and self-satisfied and proud of his own intelligence. The Philistines represent the temptation to think that such an external knowledge and acceptance of the truth is all that is necessary. The only way in which Saul could have been successful against the Philistines was by keeping constantly before him the remembrance that his power came from the Lord and that only as he obeyed implicitly the Lord's directions as they came to him through Samuel, the Lord's prophet, could he hope for victory. Saul did not have this kind of wisdom and courage. His real trust was in external strength and not in the Lord. So when he saw his army deserting him, he thought he must take things into his own hands. This is just what our first understanding does. It wants quick results. When things do not seem to be going well, it wants to hurry into some new course. It is not willing to trust the ultimate wisdom of simple obedience to the Lord.

Saul's punishment seems severe, but it simply means that our early understanding of the truth is not an adequate guide. It lacks depth of insight and patience. It must be superseded by another ruler, "a man after the Lord's own heart." Notice verses 19 to 22. Israel's dependence upon the Philistines at this period for all its weapons and tools is a clear picture of bondage to self-intelligence. This comes out in young men and women in their tendency to exalt the findings of natural science and humanistic reasoning and to think religion impractical.

Saul as king does represent the rule of truth, but it is truth seen and understood in an external and natural way. This understanding has definite weaknesses and limitations; so it is to be superseded by a deeper and more spiritual understanding. But it wins some victories, and it produces some genuine truth or doctrine. This true doctrine to which our natural reason can lead us is represented by Saul's son Jonathan, about whom we shall study later.

