
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Our lesson is more than a beautiful picture of an intangible heavenly vision. It is a searching and challenging statement of what we of the New Church may and should be and do. The teacher of the Adult class should be well versed in the details of the vision and their spiritual meaning and should make this lesson an especially thought—provoking and inspiring one. In preparation read, if possible, all of chapter 21 in the @AR , but at least read the full five—page summary at the beginning of the chapter.

---
The Word in its letter begins with the account of the stages by which a truly human being is created, and it ends with a picture of the ideal form which it is possible for him to attain if he remains faithful to the Lord through all the temptations which are permitted to come to him. This form is pictured as the "holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." It is a beautiful picture in the letter, one which children love to hear read for the very sound of the words, which set their imaginations to work and form a basis in their minds for the influx of the Lord's enlightening spirit. If with the years we have lost our love for this picture, there is something radically wrong in our souls, for the Lord says, "Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven."

We in the New Church should love this picture above others, because under divine providence we have been brought in contact with the revelation of its meaning given to the world by the Lord in His Second Coming. Our study now is centered on the details of the description of the holy city. It is a description of our church as it should be and of the soul of each individual one of us as it should be. In his brief summary of the contents of chapter 21 in the @AR Swedenborg says: "In this chapter it treats of the state of heaven and the church after the Last Judgment; that after this, through the New Heaven, the New Church will exist on the earth, which will worship the Lord alone (vers. 1-8). Its conjunction with the Lord (vers. 9, 10). The description of it as to intelligence from the Word (ver. 11); as to doctrine thence (vers. 12-21); and as to all its quality (vers. 22-26)."

Our church organization was founded by a group of men and women who had found in the doctrines revealed by the Lord in His Second Coming the answers to their spiritual questions and the true plan of heavenly living. They named their organization the "Church of the New Jerusalem" because its purpose was to make known these doctrines, which are the holy city, new Jerusalem. Throughout the Word a city is the symbol of doctrine. "A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid." The founders set their city on a hill and the church grew. Today we ask ourselves why our organization is not growing and we run about studying the methods of other churches and trying to copy them, soft—pedaling our doctrines for fear of seeming narrow and bigoted, trying to appear as much like everyone else as possible. We say, "After all, our organization is not the New Church — the New Church is coming down everywhere." If our organization is not the New Church, it has no excuse for existence, and it is the New Church exactly to the extent that we, its members, learn, live, and proclaim its doctrines. If we try to dodge this necessity, we are like ostriches, hiding our heads in the sand of current opinion. Because of our natural inheritance it is always easier to believe that if our intentions are good, what we do will be right without any effort on our part to study the truth which the Lord has given us. We really know better. We see all about us the disastrous effects of misguided good intentions. But we persist in believing that our own are different.

True, the holy city in John's vision is made of gold and its street is of gold. The essential quality of the New Church in heaven and on earth is the good of love — but it is the good of love from the Lord, not natural goodness — and its ways are ways of loving service to the Lord and the neighbor and the city has a wall "great and high" and the wall — of jasper — is the symbol of truth from the sense of the letter of the Word "pellucid" [transparent], as Swedenborg says, from the understanding of the spiritual sense. The wall protects the city but it also imposes limits. We remember that the word religion means literally a "tying back." We cannot give free rein to our natural ideas and inclinations and dwell within the holy city.

True again, the city has twelve gates, three on each side, and they are always open. The gates represent introductory truths. People are different. Each one has a different inheritance, a different background, different problems. We need to remember this in all our missionary efforts. One may approach the city from any one of several directions and find a gate — a particular truth — which attracts him and affords access. But an angel or messenger of the Lord stands at each gate and a particular quality — expressed by the name of one of the twelve tribes — is written on the gate. The interest in the particular truth must be accompanied by a genuine recognition of the Lord and desire to be taught by Him. Though the gates of the city are always open, "there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life." We have seen that judgment consists in the comparison of the books of our lives, as we have written them by our day-to—day choices in this world, with the book of life, which is the Word. And we cannot pattern our lives on the Word without studying what the Word teaches.

The foundations of the wall represent great basic truths, and because the new permanent heavens are Christian heavens, the names of the twelve apostles are written on the foundations. Of the jasper wall Swedenborg says, "that all the Divine truth in the sense of the letter of the Word, with the men of that church, is translucent from the Divine truth in the spiritual sense." Unless we are willing to make the effort to study the spiritual sense by means of the writings, our wall is not of jasper. And the same is true of the precious stones which garnish the wall, of which Swedenborg says that "all things of the doctrine of the New Jerusalem taken from the sense of the letter of the Word, with those who are in it, will appear in the light according to reception." Each of us knows certain particular verses from the Word which have been lighted up for us by our doctrines so that we really treasure them as precious stones. The more we study the Word in the light of the writings the more of these beautiful, varied precious stones we have.

The angel measured the city with a golden reed — the measuring stick of love from the Lord — and it was found to be foursquare:

"The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal." In the Word length is the measure of love or goodness and breadth of truth, and height is the extent to which good and truth acting together govern all three planes of our lives from our outer conduct up through our thinking to our inmost will. The only way that the Lord's spirit can come down to us is as we form all the planes of our lives according to His Word.

This is the city which is "the measure of a man, that is, of the angel." We do not build the New Church. The Lord builds it in and through us as we deny ourselves and follow Him. The holy city, new Jerusalem, can descend to earth only as those who have been called to its service by the Lord are faithful and diligent stewards of the great riches entrusted to them. He says to each one of us, "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you."

"Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it: except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain."

