
=== Intermediate

Draw as much of the correspondence as possible from the knowledge of the young people themselves. It is an excellent lesson in which to spur them to an effort to work out the interpretation. Present the holy city as the ideal toward which each of them is working as a member of the New Church.

---
The opening of the seventh seal and the sounding of the first six trumpets exposed the true states of the souls of the people of the first Christian Church who had been gathered into the spiritual world from the time of the Lord's resurrection to the time of His Second Coming. These people had all believed themselves to be in heaven in the meantime because they had found themselves still alive and had been allowed to go on much as they had in the world. Swedenborg calls this state "imaginary heavens." The beginning of the breaking up of this state is described in Revelation 6:14, where we read that after the sixth seal was opened, "the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together."

With the sounding of the seventh trumpet the struggle began between the evil and the powers of heaven, in which the evil were finally brought into their true places in the hells. Then the good could be raised up out of the place where they had been kept in safety by the Lord, and they could be instructed in the deeper truths revealed by the Lord in His Second Coming and formed into the true Christian heaven, with which the new Christian Church to be formed on earth would be connected.

Our lesson today is about this new heaven and new church to which we may all hope to belong if we study the deeper truth revealed in the Word and try to live according to it. It is because the giving of this deeper understanding of truth is described in Revelation by the descent to earth of the holy city, new Jerusalem, that our church is named the "Church of the New Jerusalem" and is commonly called "The New Church."

The description of the holy city given in the verses assigned for our lesson today is a beautiful picture in the letter. It is still more beautiful when we understand the spiritual meaning of the details of the vision and think of them as qualities which are possessed by the New Church in heaven and by those who are true members of the New Church on earth. You already know enough correspondences to work out some of this meaning for yourselves. You know, for instance, that a city is the symbol of doctrine; so the New Church has its form from truth. But the city was "pure gold, like unto clear glass," and you know that gold corresponds to love. So you can understand Swedenborg's own words about it: "By 'the city,' or Jerusalem, is meant the Lord's New Church as to everything of it interiorly regarded, or within the wall. By 'gold' is signified the good of love from the Lord ... and 'like unto pure glass' signifies pellucid [transparent] from the Divine wisdom." The street of the city is also said to be "pure gold, as it were transparent glass." The street, where people walk, is the symbol of the way of life. If we truly belong to the New Church, we will walk in ways of loving service, directed by truth from the Lord.

The wall which bounds and protects the city is the letter of the Word. Its twelve gates are all the truths which introduce us to the understanding of what a good life is, and its twelve foundations are the great fundamental truths of Christianity. You have learned that the twelve tribes of Israel and the twelve apostles represent all goods and truths possible to us; so you can see why their names are written on the gates and foundations. The precious stones are the various truths of the Word as we come to see them one by one in all their clearness and beauty, as the Lord gives us light to appreciate them.

There were three gates on each side of the city, and it is said that they "shall not be shut at all by day." This is a picture of the fact that although every person in the world is different from every other, starting with a different endowment and a different environment, there is no one who does not have some knowledge of truth through which it is possible for him to find his way into the holy city, provided he is in the "daytime" state; that is, if he really wants truth from the Lord because he is eager to grow better all the time. If you think that in this case everyone will certainly find his way in eventually, read John 3:19 and then the last verse of our chapter. Everyone does not want to live in the light of the holy city, because it is the light that comes from the Lord only as we overcome selfishness and worship the Lord alone. This is what is meant by Revelation 21:22-23. We have already learned what it means to have the books of our lives compared with the book of life.

Another very important verse is Revelation 21:16. All through the Word length is used as a measure of love or goodness and breadth as a measure of the understanding of truth. Height represents "good and truth together in every degree," because it is by means of learning more and more truth and loving to do it that our souls reach up toward the Lord and that His spirit can come down to us. Now you can work out this verse for yourselves, and also see why the measure of the city is said to be "the measure of a man, that is, of the angel."

You may think of all the doctrine you have learned this year as part of the foundations and walls of the holy city. Those truths which you have understood clearly and welcomed into your thought and life are the bright precious stones, and if you keep on faithfully, the whole wall will someday appear to you to be made of "jasper," beautifully translucent.

