
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Help the children to fix in their minds as many of the details of the vision as possible, with the understanding of what the city as a whole pictures, and tell them that every detail has a meaning which they will be able to learn in later years. The thought of what the "measure of a man" really is should be a helpful one to leave with them. If there is time, tie this in with the development of a man as pictured in the Creation story.

---
You remember that it was the opening of the seventh seal which began the different kinds of destruction, and that this was a picture of the fact that when we come face to face with the real truth, the bad things which we have allowed to work in our hearts and minds appear, together with the destruction they have caused. So when the seventh trumpet sounded, the very worst of people's selfish desires and thoughts appeared clearly and the evil were separated from the good and went away into hell, where selfishness reigns. Then the way was cleared for the good to see and enjoy the beautiful things prepared for them.

We finish our study of the Word with the beautiful vision of the descent of the "holy city, new Jerusalem," which is the ideal toward which all the Bible has been leading us. The people of Bible days, of course, thought of Jerusalem as the city which was their capital when they were a great nation, where the temple was built and all their worship centered. That earthly city with its temple was destroyed first by Nebuchadnezzar and again by the Romans in A.D. 70. But all through the centuries it has been clear to the Christian Church that in the Word Jerusalem is a symbol of something spiritual and eternal. Jerusalem means "place of peace," and we can think of it as the state of peace and happiness in which we can live if only we will learn the Lord's truth and try to live according to it. So it is a symbol of the church which is formed of those who love and serve the Lord both on earth and in heaven, and the New Jerusalem is a beautiful and fitting name for the church founded on the deeper truths which the Lord revealed when in His Second Coming He opened the Word. In John's vision it is because the seals were opened that everything could be put in order and the "holy city, new Jerusalem" could finally appear.

It is a beautiful vision and one which you will understand more and more as you grow older. But now you must try to get some of the details into your minds and have them to remember and think about.

Where was John taken to see the holy city?

How many gates did it have?

What were the gates made of?

What were written on them?

How many foundations did the wall have?

What were written on them?

What were the city and its street made of?

What were the foundations garnished with?

What was the temple in the city?

Where did its light come from?

Who may not enter it?

Who may enter it?

Now let us think a little about Revelation 21:16-17. What do we mean when we say that a person is "on the square" or a "square shooter"? We mean that he is sincere and just, always honest and fair to other people, a person whose word can be trusted. And we often speak of a person's "measuring up" to certain standards. So it is said of the holy city that its measure is the "measure of a man, that is, of the angel." A good man — who is an angel or messenger of the Lord — will be square, which means that he will try to learn what is right and will wish to live according to all the truth he learns. And he will also have another equal dimension: that is height, a reaching up toward the Lord for goodness and wisdom and strength of character. This is how a person comes to be "written in the Lamb's book of life" and to be one of the dwellers in the holy city, new Jerusalem.

