
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Little children love the very sound of this story as it is read to them from the Word, and it makes a much deeper impression than we realize. They should be taught to think of it as a picture of heaven and the heavenly life, and also to know and love the name of our church because it is named for this heavenly city. The children can also be given an idea of what the judgment really is. It is good to put in their minds the thought that the Lord always knows what they are feeling and thinking no matter how hard they try to cover it up, and that someday we shall have to appear openly as we really are. Read to them especially Revelation 21:16 and 17 and tell them that our ideal should be to "measure up" to the dimensions of this heavenly city.

---
You remember that the apostle John in his vision saw some very sad things, and that these were pictures of what happens in our hearts and minds when we do not want to learn from the Lord and to live as He wants us to live.

Most of the book of Revelation is a prophecy of the judgment. Judgment is just the uncovering of what we are really like in our hearts.

This comes when we die because we leave behind us in this world everything we have "put on" for show.

But the Lord showed John also the beautiful things that happen to people who love to listen to His Word and to obey Him. Our story today is one of these beautiful pictures.

John finally saw the holy city, which is a picture of heavenly life. How many gates did it have?

What were they made of?

What were written on the gates?

What were written on the twelve foundations?

What was the wall made of?

What were the city and its street made of?

What was the shape of the city?

What was the name of the city?

What is the name of our church?

Always remember that your church is named for the beautiful heavenly city. This is because it is in the church that we learn how to live heavenly lives like the angels in the beautiful city. See if you can remember the name, and try to be good. Then you may always live in the golden city.

