
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Remind the Seniors of the fact that it is the ability to know and love the Lord which really distinguishes man from the animals, and tie this in with Revelation 21:16-17. Try to make the picture of the holy city an ideal which they may hold before them always as their ultimate goal, and stress the fact that without the truths given us by the Lord in His Second Coming, there can be no holy city in the individual or in the world.

---
Several chapters in the book of Revelation treat of the completion of the last judgment in the spiritual world, of the struggle of those in falsities and evils to maintain control, and of their defeat by the armies of the Lord and their final withdrawal to the hells whose delights they had chosen during their life on earth. So the spiritual world was reduced to order and the way opened for the descent of the holy city.

Swedenborg begins his interpretations of our chapter in the Apocalypse Revealed with this brief summary of its meaning: "In this chapter it treats of the state of heaven and the church after the Last Judgment; that after this, through the New Heaven, the New Church will exist on earth, which will worship the Lord alone (vers. 1-8). Its conjunction with the Lord (vers. 9, 10). The description of it as to intelligence from the Word (ver. 11); as to doctrine thence (vers. 12-21); and as to all its quality (vers. 22-26)." So the New Church is identified with the "holy city, new Jerusalem." We commonly speak of our church as the New Church, but we should always have in mind its full name and the source of that name. Never hesitate to use the full name when anyone asks you to what church you belong. If your hearer looks puzzled, say: "It is named for the holy city new Jerusalem, described in the twenty-first chapter of Revelation." This is often necessary because people today unfortunately do not know their Bibles as well as they should.

We can think of this holy city as the ideal according to which we, as New Churchmen, should be shaping our lives. In the first place it is pictured as a city, and we know that a city corresponds to doctrine. You do not belong to the New Church by merely in a vague way wanting to be good. Swedenborg tells us many times that good takes its quality from truth and that love has no power except through truth. So, although the city is pure gold — pure love - it is a city with foundations and walls and gates. And although it has twelve gates, three on each side, and so may be approached from various angles, and although its gates are always open, "There shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life." We have seen that the judgment on us as individuals is no more nor less than the comparison of the books of our lives, which we have written by our daily choices in this world, with the book of life, which is the Word of God.

The city is said to be of gold and its street of gold and the reed with which the angel measured it was of gold. Love from the Lord is the quality of the life of the New Church — the Lord alone is its temple and its light — the paths in which the true New Churchman walks are paths of loving service, and everything he thinks and does must submit to the measuring stick of unselfish love.

But all the other details of the description have to do with truth.

The wall which defines the limits of the city and which also protects it is the sense of the letter of the Word, and it is said to be of jasper, which is a translucent stone, because in the New Church truth from the internal sense shines through the letter. The names of the twelve tribes are written on the gates and those of the twelve apostles on the foundations because the gates represent introductory knowledges and the twelve tribes all the truths and goods of the church, while by the foundations are meant all things of Christian doctrine, and by the twelve apostles "all things of doctrine from the Word concerning the Lord and concerning a life according to His commandments." The many and varied precious stones which adorn the foundations are the particular truths of the letter of the Word lighted up by the Lord from within as we come to see and delight in them. Different truths in the Word have special appeal for different people. We must always remember this when we talk about the church to others, and be quick and sympathetic in recognizing what each one needs most and so is looking for. And the gates of the city were twelve pearls, "every several gate was of one pearl." The pearl is "the acknowledgment and knowledge of the Lord." Read John 10:9 and then Matthew 13:45-46. No one comes into the holy city except by the way of knowledge and acknowledgment of the Lord. We cannot climb up some other way, as the Lord tells us in John 10:1.

Of the city it is said that it is "foursquare" and that "the length and the breadth and the height of it are equal." This means that we must have as much truth as goodness and as much goodness as truth, and that both must be expressed in our lives from top to bottom — in will, thought, and act. We must not keep any part of our souls to ourselves, away from the direction and cleansing of the Lord's truth as it is given us through the Word. This is the "measure of a man, that is, of the angel." Angels and men alike must strive to live up to this heavenly ideal if they wish to dwell in the holy city, new Jerusalem.

