
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AC 8192: "And the angel of the Lord set out. [Genesis 14:19] That this signifies a setting in order by Divine truth is evident from the signification of 'setting out' as being a setting in order. That 'to set out' denotes a setting in order is because the pillar of cloud — which was an angelic choir — that had previously advanced before the sons of Israel, now betook itself between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel, and thus brought darkness upon the Egyptians, and gave light to the sons of Israel; and because these things were thus set in order by the Lord, by means of the setting out of the angel of God, or the pillar, and by means of its interposition, therefore by 'to set out' is here signified a setting in order. ... Be it known further, that in the Word 'an angel' is spoken of, when yet many are meant; as in the present case, where it is said 'the angel of God,' and there is meant the pillar which advanced before the sons of Israel, and which was constituted of many angels. Moreover, in the Word angels are mentioned by name, as 'Michael,' 'Raphael,' and others. They who do not know the internal sense of the Word believe that 'Michael' or 'Raphael' is some one angel who is supreme among his associates; but by these names in the Word is not signified some one angel, but the angelic function itself, thus also the Divine of the Lord in respect to that which belongs to the function."

@AC 8215: "And he took off the wheel of his chariots. That this signifies the power of inflicting falsities taken away, is evident from the signification of 'to take off' as being to take away; from the signification of 'a wheel' as being the power of advancing ... and from the signification of 'the chariots of Pharaoh' as being doctrinal things of falsity ... Chariots were of two kinds: there were chariots for conveying merchandise, and chariots for war. By chariots for conveying merchandise were signified doctrinal things of falsity; and by chariots for war were also signified doctrinal things in both senses, but fighting ones, thus the truths themselves, and the falsities themselves, prepared for war. From this it can be seen what is meant by 'the wheel of a chariot,' namely, the power of advancing, here of inflicting falsities and of fighting against truths. As this power belongs to man's intellectual part, by a 'wheel' is also signified the intellectual part in respect to those things which are of doctrine. In the other life there frequently appear chariots ... These things appear when the angels discourse in heaven about doctrines."

