
=== Adult

The identification of the holy city with the New Church and what this should mean to us is the especial lesson for the Adult class. We should recognize clearly that a city represents a system of doctrine and that, although we may not all enter the city by the same gate or be delighted with the same precious stone in its foundations, we do not enter it at all unless we see it as a city that is foursquare and compact together and wish to establish our lives within its walls.

---
Swedenborg tells us (@AE 879) that "'a city' in the spiritual sense signifies doctrine." We have seen that our house is the house of our character. We build it within the city of certain doctrines or teachings through which we are associated with other men and women and can help them and be helped by them. Jerusalem is the city of the Lord's teachings, "the church as to doctrine." The temple was there, and there the worship of the Lord was carried on. We know that the actual city of Jerusalem was merely a representative and that when the inhabitants had perverted even the externals of their worship, Jerusalem and the temple were destroyed. So it has been with every church: when most of its adherents became selfish and worldly and no longer carried on their worship from a desire to serve the Lord and the neighbor, its city of doctrine was broken up and its people dispersed. Yet throughout the Word the Lord promises that in the fullness of time a church will be raised up which shall not perish, a system of truth will be revealed which shall not perish, a system of truth will be revealed which shall be adequate for all time. This is the stone which smote Nebuchadnezzar's image and then grew into a great mountain and filled the whole earth.

It is also pictured as the holy city New Jerusalem which John saw descending from God out of heaven "prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." Swedenborg (@AE 881) beautifully explains this verse. He says that by Jerusalem is meant the church, and continues: "he [John] saw it first as a city, and afterwards as a Virgin Bride; as a city representatively, and as a Virgin Bride spiritually, thus in a twofold idea, one within or above the other; just as the angels do, who when they see or hear or read in the Word of a 'city,' in the idea of the lower thought perceive a city, but in the idea of higher thought perceive the church as to doctrine; and the latter, if they desire it and pray to the Lord, they see as a virgin in beauty and clothing according to the quality of the church. Thus also it has been granted me to see the church ... The church is no otherwise attired for her betrothal, and afterwards for conjunction or marriage, than by the Word; for this is the only means of conjunction or marriage ... From these things it may appear, that by 'Jerusalem prepared as a bride for her husband,' is signified that church conjoined with the Lord through the Word." The walls of the city, like the garments of the bride, picture the truths of the Word, which make of the holy Jerusalem "a city that is compact together" (Psalm 122:3). We build our house within the walls of the holy city New Jerusalem when we choose to allow the truths of the Word revealed for the New Age to define, circumscribe, and guard our thought and conduct.

This thought brings us to the consideration of the third of the fundamental doctrines of the New Church, the doctrine of life. Perhaps the most popular and most frequently quoted sentence ever written by Swedenborg is, "All religion is of the life, and the life of religion is to do good." (Life 1) This is a beautiful and true statement, but like all statements it can be falsified if it is taken out of the system of truth to which it belongs and used to support and defend ideas contrary to that system — like a single stone taken from the wall of Jerusalem and built into the wall of Babylon. This particular statement has been used sometimes to excuse lack of interest in "doctrine," and sometimes even to support the position that it is not necessary to go to church, to know about and worship the Lord, or even to keep the commandments, if only one is kind and charitable to his neighbors and active in so—called "good works." We need to know what Swedenborg means by "the life" and what by "to do good." "The life" is not outward conduct. Of the Pharisees the Lord said, "Ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones." (Matthew 23:27) And at another time He said, "Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you." (John 6:53) "The life" is the inmost or heart of man. Religion must be primarily in the heart. And the Lord tells us what it is to do good in Micah 6:8: "He hath showed thee, O man, what is good: and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" "Good works" are not measured by the amount of money we give to charity or by our activity in social reforms, but by our personal righteousness, the justice, mercy, and humility before God which we show in every relation of life. "To do good" is to do not what I think is good or what my neighbors think is good but what the Lord says is good, and this involves a thorough and ever-growing knowledge of the Scriptures and their meaning, a constant effort to learn the Lord's will and do it and to avoid evils as sins against God. If a person's life lacks this inner quality of humility and obedience to the Lord, he cannot do good, whatever his outward acts may be. "If he does them from God they are good, if from self they are not good." (@DLove 9) And the only way to acquire this inner quality is to keep the commandments, to shun as sins against God the things which the Lord says we must not do. As long as we refuse to recognize our evils, as long as we excuse and defend them, we are not really looking to the Lord for guidance at all, and there is no life in anything we do.

The holy city New Jerusalem is the picture of a heavenly society, the New Church teaching lived. It exists in heaven, but also it is descending to earth to the extent that individual men and women learn and live these teachings. It is "foursquare," "the length, and the breadth, and the height of it are equal," and its measurements are those of a man, "that is of the angel." This is the full life with its three dimensions — love, wisdom, and act — perfectly equal: no good desire which is thwarted by ignorance, no knowledge of the truth which is not put into practice, no deeds which are not the expression of love and wisdom. All the good affections which men may have, represented by the twelve apostles and by the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel, are there as means of entrance and supports. The gates are not shut at all; all who wish may enter. And yet it is said, "And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth": those who do not wish to obey and serve the Lord see no beauty in the city and have no desire to enter it. For its beauties are all representative: the precious stones are beautiful truths seen in variety by different minds and translucent from the spiritual meaning. The golden streets are paths of loving service. The river of water of life is the truth proceeding from the Lord, the same living water which He promised to the woman of Samaria, and the fruits of the tree of life are all form of heavenly use. These things are beautiful only to those who love goodness for its own sake, thus who love the Lord, who is Good. The worship in the city is directed to the Lord alone, and all the light and glory of it are from Him. This is the picture of the crown and reward of a truly good life; and only a truly good life, lived according to the commandments in loving service of the Lord and the neighbor, can see its beauty and glory.

We should all recognize in this last book of the Bible a stirring picture of the life of the true New Churchman, beginning with the beautiful vision of the Lord Jesus Christ reigning, and going on through the lifelong battle against the falsities and evils in oneself as they are gradually uncovered through deeper and deeper understanding of the Word, to the final victory of the established heavenly character with its enjoyments of the Lord's great gifts of love, truth, and heavenly usefulness. "Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city."

