
=== Intermediate

Follow the same general outline as for the Juniors, but do more with the correspondence of the details. Stress the necessity of making our choice now and of looking to the Lord and the Word for our guidance all our lives.

Revelation 21:2 from our first chapter for today is one which New Church members should memorize, because symbolically it gives us the reason for the name of our church. We have seen in the Old Testament and in the Gospels that Jerusalem stands for the church as to doctrine. The New Jerusalem is the New Church as to its doctrine, and every detail in the vision of the holy city refers to that doctrine and its glory and power. Life according to that doctrine makes the church also "the bride, the Lamb's wife."

The "great and high mountain" to which John was carried in spirit, we are told by Swedenborg, is the highest heaven. The "wall great and high" is the literal sense of the Word which contains and protects all truth. The twelve gates are all the knowledges of good and truth by which men are introduced into the church. The three gates on each side should not be thought of as three separate entrances, but rather as three gates one within another, representing the opening of all three planes to the Lord.* The foundations of the city are the things of doctrine in the literal sense of the Word, such as the ten commandments. The fact that "the length is as large as the breadth" means that in it good and truth are present in equal measure. The precious stones are all the beautiful truths of doctrine, which take different aspects to different minds. The gates all of one pearl picture the fact that all the knowledge about the Lord which we make our own by living it combines to bring us into the New Church. The street of gold is the path of loving service which enables us to see the beauty of truth. Revelation 21:22-23 mean that all who are of the New Church in the heavens acknowledge gladly that they have no goodness or truth of their own but that all goodness and truth are of the Lord alone.

[* Although this is an appealing idea — with logic on its side — the editor is not aware of any direct statement to this effect in the Writings. Cf., however, Conjugial Love 11. One might also note that standard practice in Near Eastern cities — for defensive purposes — was to build walls with gates in depth. -Editor]

This same thought is carried out in the twenty-second chapter in the picture of the great river of water of life with the tree of life on either side. If we look to the Lord as the source of all wisdom and goodness, He enables us to do "good works," that is, acts which have genuine goodness in them, at every stage of our progress in knowledge of the truth. These are the twelve manner of fruits borne every month. The leaves of the tree, which are for the healing of the nations, are rational truths developed from the principle pictured by the tree of life. We can see that if the thoughts and acts of everyone in the world were constantly governed by obedience to the Lord, all the ills of the world would be speedily healed.

Notice that although the gates of the city are always open, nothing that "defileth" ever enters. This is because only those who really desire the truth for the sake of life ever approach the city. Many in this world learn the truth and talk about it, but if they do not want it to live by, it is only in their external memories, which are closed at death. Only what is lived out is written on the heart. This is what is meant by being written "in the Lamb's book of life." Read Revelation 20:12. The other book which was opened is the Word, and men are judged according to the comparison between their lives and the Word. Each of us is writing his book of life day by day. Everything — every thought and feeling — which we choose to make our own becomes a part of our inner life, no matter how different we may seem on the outside, and when we leave this world, we leave the outside behind and appear as we really are inside. It is a fact that the Lord does not judge us at all: we judge ourselves. This is what the whole book of Revelation teaches us.

The warning in Revelation 22:18-19 is a very serious one. As you grow older, you will find that people are constantly tempted to change the Word of God, to try to make it say what they think it ought to say instead of what it actually does say. This soon leads to the belief that the letter of the Word is not to be trusted, that it is the work of men and not of God. Then men begin to delve into the history of the Bible people instead of into the meaning of the Word itself. So they exalt the thoughts of men above the thoughts of God and cut themselves off from the light which the Word is given to bring to them. The fact that we do not always understand clearly what the Word is telling us does not mean that the Word is faulty — it means that we are ignorant and "slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken," as the Lord said to the two disciples on the road to Emmaus (Luke 24:25). It is not an idle warning which is put in this prominent place at the very end of the Bible.

