
=== Junior

After your review begin with the name of our church, and explain the general meaning of the holy city. Then take up such details as are mentioned in the Junior notes, having the class look up all the references to other parts of the Word. End with the lesson of Revelation 21:27 and 22:11.

With what vision does the book of Revelation open?

To whom was the revelation given?

Why did the seven churches in Asia need the messages that were given to John for them?

With what words do all the messages end?

The whole book of Revelation is really a picture of what happens in our lives as we begin to understand what the Lord says to us in His word. Little by little we are led to see the wrong things that are in us, first in our conduct, then in our thoughts, and finally deeper and deeper down in our hearts. This is what is called the process of judgment. And if we acknowledge our faults as they are brought to light and try with the Lord's help to conquer them, we gradually become true children of God. This is what is called regeneration, which means rebirth. It is a long, slow process which goes on all our lives in this world. But if we are faithful, we come at last to the holy city toward which the Lord has all along been leading us.

So at the very end of the book — the end of the Bible itself — John is given a beautiful vision of this holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven. Our church is named for this city, because our church is founded on the opened Word. The description of the city in Revelation 21:11-27 is very beautiful, and we like to read it over and over. See how many things you can remember about it. In each detail there is a wonderful meaning which you wi11 learn gradually as you come to know more and more of correspondences.

Then in Reveleation 22 John is given a vision of what is within the city.

What does he see flowing from the throne of God?

What grows beside the river?

Where did we first read of this river and tree of life?

Read Genesis 2:8-17. And one of the Major Prophets also saw these things. Read Ezekiel 47:1-12.

Water is a picture of truth. The great river symbolizes the truth flowing from God to us in the Word. Everyone who really wants the truth can find it there. Read Revelation 22:17. Now read what the Lord said to the woman of Samaria in John 4:10-14. The tree of life which grows beside this river is a picture of the beautiful principle that everything we have comes to us from the Lord, and its fruit is genuine goodness. Read 22:14 to see how we may become truly good.

Now read Revelation 22:11. It teaches us that merely passing from this world into the spiritual world does not change anyone. A man who is evil here is just as evil when he wakes up in the world of spirits, and a man who is good here continues to be good there. After death no one can change his heart. We are put in this world just so that we can learn what is right and by choosing freely to do it make it our own forever.

There is one other point which we should notice especially.

Read Revelation 22:8-9. Some churches teach that angels are a separate kind of creature, quite different from men and women. But here the angel tells John that he had himself been one of the prophets who had obeyed the teachings of the Word.

What does the word angel mean?

We are all angels when we are carrying the Lord's messages to others by our words or by our lives, and if we are the Lord's messengers in this way while we live here, we shall in time be beautiful angels in heaven. The holy city is a picture of the life that is built on obedience to the Lord's truth. Read Revelation 21:16-17. We know what we mean when we say that a person is a "square shooter." The good life is foursquare — equal in its understanding of what is right and in its performance of right — and it has another dimension also which is equal to the other two — its height. That means that it is a life that looks to the Lord as its source and director. That is why the measure of the city is said to be "the measure of a man, that is, of the angel."

