
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Tell the children that John was given a vision of the beautiful city which is a picture of heaven, in which we shall all live someday if we are good. Then read from the Word as much of the actual description as possible. Be sure to include and comment upon Revelation 21:27 and 22:11, showing the children that it is the life they live here which determines whether or not they will enter the gates of the holy city of heaven. See how many of the details of the vision the children can remember afterward.

---
After John was given the messages to the seven churches, he was shown many wonderful and terrible things which teach us what happens in the other world to people who refuse to listen to what the Lord teaches us so lovingly and who insist on doing just as they please all their lives. And the vision shows us, too, how the Lord takes care of all who are good, and separates them from the evil. After that John saw a vision of a sealed book which no one but the Lord could open.

As the seals of the book were opened one by one, a great judgment took place. Finally what did John see coming down from God out of heaven?

How many gates and foundations did this city have?

What can you tell about them?

How was the city measured?

What shape was it?

What did John see flowing from the throne of God?

What grew on either side of the river?

Where have we heard of the river and the tree of life before?

Who cannot enter the city?

I wonder if you remember hearing about a river and about the tree of life in one of our lessons on the book of Genesis. They were in the Garden of Eden. Let us look back in our Bible and read about them. [Read Genesis 2:8-12.] When we are innocent little babies, before we have begun to do naughty things, it is like living in the Garden of Eden. But if we keep trying to stop being naughty and grow up to be strong, good men and women, when we die we shall live in heaven, and this is what the beautiful city of John's vision pictures.

