
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Do more in this class with the outline of the Bible as a whole and the force of these concluding chapters as the culmination of the long spiritual history of mankind and of the individual life. What it means to be a New Churchman is a good general topic for discussion.

---
The Scriptures open with the Garden of Eden and close with the holy city. The Garden of Eden pictures not only the primitive state of the race (mankind) but the infant state of the individual. And the holy city pictures the ultimate goal of humanity and of each one of us. All the Scriptures in between the two describe the journey from what Swedenborg calls the "innocence of ignorance" to the "innocence of wisdom." The garden pictures the range of opportunities which the Lord sets before each of us; the city, our highest possible attainment.

In both the garden and the city we find the great river and the tree of life, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil is not found in the holy city. We recall that the tree of life pictures the principle that all good and truth are the Lord's. This is the delight of the angels in heaven. The tree of knowledge of good and evil is the principle that man of himself is able to know truth and to do good. Those who have chosen this principle to rule their lives are forever outside of the holy city. The choice between these two principles is the fundamental choice which each of us must make while he lives in this world.

The fruit of the tree of life comes to us as nourishment for our souls in every possible state through which we must pass — the fruit yielded every month — and the leaves of the tree, which are for the healing of the nations, picture the thoughts and reasonings which spring from genuine acknowledgment of the Lord and desire to be led by Him alone. We can easily see that if all men were in this acknowledgment and desire, the nations would literally be healed. Injustice, strife, and oppression spring from the leaves of the other tree.

The beautiful picture of the holy city, with its twelve foundations, its walls great and high, its gold and precious stones, its gates of pearl which are never closed, its golden streets, and the Lord Himself its light is a picture of our inner lives in heaven if we are faithful in our effort to make the books of our lives read like the book of life (Revelation 20:21). We should also recognize that the life pictured by the holy city New Jerusalem is life according to the truths of the opened Word. It is the life of the New Church, the crown of all the churches. That is why our church was in its beginning named the "Church of the New Jerusalem." Each of us should be proud of this name and should try to live up to it, by studying the Word not only in its letter but in its spiritual sense and making the doctrines revealed for our church our own by learning and living them. This is the challenge which the name presents to us.

If we compare Genesis 2:16-17 with Revelation 22:11-12, we see that the law laid down at the beginning of our lives works out to its inevitable conclusion. The choice is ours. We make our lives good or evil, happy or miserable, by our own choice, and the choice made in this world cannot be reversed after death. The final judgment is merely the opening of our interiors to reveal what we have written there.

