
=== Adult

The story of Abraham and its general correspondence should be familiar to the Adult class unless the group contains newcomers to the church. Most of the time should be spent on the details of the chapter, with special attention to Swedenborg's explanation of the visit of the three men, of Sarah's laughter, and of the conversation about Sodom and Gomorrah.

---
In approaching the familiar story of Abraham we need again to remind ourselves that all history is the record of slow changes, and that events which seem to us sudden and sometimes inexplicable are nevertheless the result of the development of seeds sown long before. As the devastation of the Ancient Church was accomplished gradually, so the inauguration of the Jewish Church was not by a sudden sweeping creation.

The Jews look to Abraham as the father of their race, and we are accustomed to think of the call of Abraham as the beginning of the Jewish Church. But if we read the writings carefully, we find that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob constituted the last phase of the Ancient Church. Swedenborg speaks of three Ancient Churches. The first is pictured by Noah and his sons. The second began with Eber, who is the first real person mentioned in the Word and from whom the Jews take the name of Hebrews. The third is described in the story of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For although Abraham was an idolater, having lost all understanding of spiritual things, he still had the desire to serve God rather than self, the desire which is essential to a true church. Isaac and even Jacob retained something of this desire. The Jewish Church, which was not a true church at all but merely the representative of a church, was instituted among the sons of Jacob and their descendants. Swedenborg has much to say about this in connection with the interpretation of Genesis 32, 33, and 34.

In explaining the stories of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Swedenborg deals principally with the celestial sense, with their application to the states through which the Lord passed from infancy to adulthood, as He progressively opened the planes of His Human and united them to the indwelling Divine. But we are frequently reminded in the writings that the process of regeneration with man is analogous to the process of glorification in the Lord. So we rightly think of Abraham as picturing our spiritual state in infancy and very early childhood, a state of celestial innocence and trust but also a state of ignorance. The call of Abraham to leave his father's house in Ur of the Chaldees and go to the land of Canaan is the call we hear when, as little children, we first recognize that we ought to be good instead of naughty. If we obey the call, we begin our journey and eventually reach the Holy Land. Like Abram we go down into Egypt for the sustenance we need — the knowledges of the Word necessary to our spiritual life — and return rich "in cattle, in silver, and in gold." We experience the separation from Lot when we see that the natural part of us seeks external satisfactions; and our early struggles with ourselves are on this most external plane, as Abraham had to rescue Lot when he became involved in the difficulties of the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah.

Sodom and Gomorrah appear in our chapter for today. We may wonder at first what connection there is between the first half and the last half of the chapter, but the connection becomes evident when we think what the promise of an heir means. We are approaching the birth of Isaac, who represents our higher rational faculty. Ishmael — the natural rational — is already in the picture. That is, we are passing out of the infant state and have developed the ability to "reason from appearances." We are at the stage when we begin to argue with our parents. At heart we know we ought to continue to trust and obey them — Abraham's confidence does not waver — but our innocent delight in their complete wisdom — pictured by Sarah — is attacked by doubts. The promise of an heir is the promise that our efforts to do right will surely bear lasting fruit. The doubt comes to the child in the form of a question:

"What is the use of trying to be good all the time? I try and try, and never seem to satisfy people."

In verse 1 of our chapter Swedenborg's translation is "the oak groves of Mamre," and as the Hebrew word is terebinth — the teiltree or oak of Palestine — there seems no reason for the translation "plains" of the King James Version. The Revised Standard Version translates it "the oaks." The oak groves signify perception from memory-knowledges, and the fact that Abraham sat in the tent door signifies a state of worship. So we have present the conditions necessary for receiving a communication from the Lord. We are told in the writings that before the Advent the Lord appeared to men by filling an angel with His presence, and we find that Abraham received the three men immediately as angels or messengers of the Lord. In @AC 2149 Swedenborg says that the three men signify "the Divine Itself, the Divine Human, and the Holy proceeding," and he continues: "for it is known to everyone that there is a Trine, and that this Trine is a One." Then he analyzes the conversation between Abraham and the angels to point out that they are addressed as one, that they speak as one, and that this One is identified with the Lord. A similar circumstance may be noted in chapter 19, where the two men who come to Lot are referred to as "they" while they are in Sodom, but become "he" after Lot has been led out.

The mission of the angels is to confirm the promise of an heir and to name the time of his birth. Concerning Sarah's laughter, which revealed doubt, Swedenborg says in @AC 2216 that laughter is "an affection of the rational" and he continues: "So long as there is in the rational such an affection as displays itself in laughter, so long there is in it something corporeal or worldly, and thus merely human." Even in the Lord, at the time in His earthly life which is pictured here, the rational still had much of the human in it, which was to be expelled, and this in the celestial sense is signified by Sarah's laughing.

Abraham's questions concerning Sodom and Gomorrah and the Lord's replies are an answer to our childhood question, "What is the use of trying to be good?" They are a study in the basic requirements for salvation. "If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes." Fifty signifies "what is full," in this case "truths full of goods." This is a spiritual picture of the man who has persisted in the effort to learn truths from the Word and to live according to them. But we all recognize our shortcomings in this respect. "Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous." Five signifies "a little." Forty and thirty both signify temptation — thirty a less degree than forty. We are told that genuine temptations come to no one who is not regenerating, for spiritual temptations are not mere external trials but are the urge to despair of our power to do right and to give up the battle, to take the easy downward path. So long as we have these inner struggles, we may know that our state is not hopeless. Twenty represents "the good of ignorance," "those who have not been in temptations and yet are good," and Swedenborg ascribes this especially to the state of young people between the ages of ten and twenty, because they have not reached the age of full responsibility for their choices. All these are saved. Finally the number ten signifies "remains." All little children — in whom the Lord always stores up remains of good and truth - and all adults who have not by their own choice destroyed these remains in themselves are saved.

