
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The principal lesson for this class is the correspondence of Abraham, the meaning of his call, and the importance of the good states of our infancy in our later development.

---
Abraham obeyed the Lord. When the voice of the Lord came to him, telling him to leave his home in Ur of Chaldea and make the long journey to the land of Canaan, he gathered together his family and his possessions and started out. You remember the story. Abram and his wife Sarai — their names were later changed to Abraham and Sarah — together with Abraham's brother Nahor and his family, and their nephew Lot — son of another brother, Haran, who had died — and their old father Terah took the route up around the northern edge of the Arabian desert, living in tents and stopping often to pasture their flocks and herds. At one of these stopping places, not too far from Canaan, Nahor decided to settle. They named the place Haran after Lot's father, and in the Bible it is also sometimes called "the city of Nahor." There Terah died. We need to remember this place because of its importance in our later stories.

Abraham and Sarah and Lot, with their servants and their animals, went on into the land of Canaan, stopping at Shechem and Bethel, where Abraham built altars, and then going on southward. You remember that because of a famine they had to go to Egypt for a time and that they prospered there and became rich. When they returned to the land of Canaan, they separated, Lot choosing to live in the rich Jordan valley, in spite of the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah in that area, and Abraham taking the more mountainous region and making his home at Hebron.

This is a true story, but it is also a story of a spiritual journey which we take in our early childhood, for Abraham represents the state of every little child, a state of simple trust and obedience. At that state of our lives we are all ignorant and we know only the external things which we see and touch — just as Abraham was an idolater — but the Lord has seen to it that there is something in us which accepts instruction about Him. The land of Chaldea represents our first natural self-centered state, but we are called by the Lord to go to the land of Canaan, which represents heaven or a heavenly character. And the Lord promises each one of us, as He promised Abraham, that if we obey Him the land of Canaan shall be ours forever.

In our present chapter Abraham is settled in Hebron and is prosperous and happy except for one thing. He has no heir. Ishmael has been born to him by Hagar, Sarah's Egyptian bondwoman, but the Lord has told him that Ishmael is not to be his heir. We soon recognize that the three men who come to Abraham are messengers of the Lord, or angels, for they speak for the Lord.

In fact, if you read carefully, you will find that the angels are sometimes called "he" and that in verse 13 they are even called "the Lord." Swedenborg explains this for us by telling us that before the Lord came into the world as Jesus Christ He sometimes appeared to men by "filling an angel with His presence." Abraham received the men with joy and gave them the best he had. This again shows Abraham's openness to direction by the Lord, and it is a picture of the simplicity and of the pleasure with which little children receive instruction in the stories of the Word.

The angels told Abraham that Sarah would bear him a son, even though by this time Abraham and Sarah were both old. Sarah doubted, but Abraham believed. The promise of an heir is the promise that the truth we learn and the good we do will not be wasted but will "bear fruit," that is, will lead to further development of heavenly character.

The latter part of our chapter, although it seems to have no connection with this promise in the letter, really carries it further. The wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah picture the evils and falsities which "come natural" to us because we are born selfish. Sometimes we get to thinking that we just can't help being bad, and we become discouraged with ourselves and are tempted to give up trying to be good. This is pictured by the angels going down to look over Sodom and Gomorrah to see if they are so wicked that they must be destroyed. Every number in the Word has a correspondence. So the numbers which Abraham uses in our chapter describe different kinds and degrees of goodness, beginning with fifty, which pictures a life full of goodness and truth, and ending with ten, which pictures "remains," the good states of our infancy stored up in us by the Lord. Perhaps you have read stories of how a young man who seemed about to become a criminal has suddenly thought of his mother and his innocent childhood and decided to change his ways and reform. This is an example of how the Lord can work through these childhood "remains."

So the conversation between the Lord and Abraham in our chapter teaches us how the Lord uses every bit of goodness and truth we ever had, and is trying always to save us from becoming wholly selfish and destroying our spiritual life.

