
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
For this class the story of Abraham is best taught with the help of a map, and this story should be treated as an incident in the total story, with the emphasis on the promise of Isaac. Do not, however, neglect the general lesson of Abraham's questions concerning Sodom and Gomorrah. The exact location of these two cities geographically is not known, but their general location may be assumed from the story of Lot.

---
What is the first great church on earth called?

How is its end described in the Bible?

What is the second great church called?

What serious fault developed in it?

What happened to it when it would no longer serve the Lord?

By what story in the Bible is its end described?

The Lord never lets the world be without a church. You remember that Cain represents faith and that the Lord kept Cain from being killed even after Cain had killed Abel. To start the third church the Lord chose Abram. Abram and his family had grown up with a great many wrong ideas about God and religion, but they still wanted to do what would please God instead of just trying to have their own way. So the Lord could teach them.

The Lord told Abram to take his family and leave Ur of Chaldea and travel to the land of Canaan. Abram made his home at Hebron, where the Lord renewed His promise to Abram that he would be father of a great people, and as a sign changed his name to Abraham and Sarai's name to Sarah. This was a sign because the letter h is the principal letter in the Lord's name Jehovah, and it meant that Abraham and Sarah, because they were obedient to the Lord, had come to stand in a very special relation to Him.

Now we come to our story for today. Mamre, in the first verse of our chapter, is another name for Hebron.

Who came to see Abraham at Mamre?

What did Abraham offer them first?

What did he tell Sarah to do?

What else did he give them to eat?

What did they promise him?

What did Sarah do?

On your map find the two cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. These were in the valley which Lot had chosen for his home, and perhaps you remember that Lot had already had trouble because he lived too near these wicked cities. He and his family had been captured, and Abraham had had to go and rescue him. Now the two cities have become so wicked that they must be destroyed.

What does Abraham ask the Lord?

What were the numbers in order as Abraham gave them?

When you are older, you will understand more of what this story means, but you can see now that it teaches us that the Lord is very kind and merciful and does everything He can to help and save us, so long as there is any real goodness in us. It is never the Lord's fault if a person does not get to heaven. But the Lord cannot save us if we turn from Him altogether and become wholly selfish. And of course the more obedient and unselfish we are, the more happiness the Lord can give us.

