
=== Notes for Parents

In this story Abraham is nearly a hundred years old. The Lord has kept his promise — made when He called Abraham to leave his ancestral home in Chaldea and go to the land of Canaan — and Abraham is rich and well established in the land. But one promise of the Lord is still unfulfilled. For the Lord has said that Abraham's descendants shall inherit the land and become a great nation, and as yet Abraham's wife Sarah, who is also very old, has had no children. Abraham has one son, Ishmael, born to him by Sarah's bondwoman Hagar, but the Lord has told him that Ishmael cannot be his heir.

Abraham's outstanding virtues were trust in the Lord and obedience to Him. It was these virtues which made it possible for the Lord to be with him and to prosper him, and also to speak to him as He does in our chapter. As we read the chapter, we find that Abraham almost immediately recognizes the three men as angels or messengers of the Lord, and as the chapter goes on, he speaks to them as one person and is answered by the Lord, until in the last part of the chapter his whole conversation is with the Lord. The renewal of the promise of an heir to be born to him by Sarah he accepts without question. Sarah cannot conceal her doubts, but we know that within the year she did have a son, Isaac.

The lesson for us in this chapter is that trust and obedience are never in vain. They always bear fruit which carries on into the future. Sometimes it seems to us that the good have many hardships to bear and that the evil prosper, but that is because we are thinking only of what happens in this world and forgetting that this is only the beginning of our life and that what counts in the end is what is happening in our souls. This is what the last part of our chapter tells us. We all have in us the spiritual counterparts of the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, selfish desires and wrong thoughts, but if we do our best from day to day to learn the Lord's will and do it, the Lord will surely spare us and bring us safely to heaven.

