
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
More can be done in this class with the conversation concerning Sodom and Gomorrah. One of the temptations young people have to meet is the question — not only in their own minds but from other people - "What's the use?" They need to be impressed with the fact that the Lord's presence with us is very real, and that no right choice of ours is ever wasted.

---
The story of Abraham's call to leave his home in Ur of the Chaldees and go to the land of Canaan pictures something in the experience of every one of us. We are born wholly ignorant and with a deep-seated tendency to selfishness which comes to us by inheritance from our natural ancestors. The evils and consequent false tendencies which developed in the Most Ancient and Ancient churches are born in us just as they were in Abraham. But the Lord sees to it that each of us has also an inheritance from Him in the form of a "counter—urge" to overcome our selfishness and make spiritual progress. When you were a very little child you began to feel this prompting to be good instead of naughty. It was the voice of the Lord calling you to leave "the land of your fathers" - your selfishness — and go to the land of Canaan — the heavenly character which the Lord would make your own if you obeyed.

Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob picture our spiritual development as we grow from infancy to adulthood. Abraham stands for our infancy and very early childhood. Abraham trusted and obeyed the Lord just as we, when we are little, trust and obey our parents. We have studied Abraham's journey, the settling of his brother Nahor in Haran, the arrival of Abraham and Lot at Shechem and then at Bethel, their sojourn in Egypt because of the famine, and their return and separation, when Lot chose the Jordan valley and Abraham took the more mountainous part of the land. You will remember the story of Lot and the difficulties he had because he lived too near the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, and that this represents the tendency of the natural, external part of our minds to be lured into evil by the attractions of the world.

At the time when our lesson for today opens, Abraham is settled at Hebron — also called Mamre — and has been made rich and secure through his obedience to the Lord. He has one son, Ishmael, born to him by his wife's Egyptian bondwoman Hagar; but the Lord has told him that Ishmael is not to be his heir. Yet he has been promised that his descendants shall inherit the land after him, and that his wife Sarah shall have a son.

This promise is renewed and made definite as to time by the three men who come to Abraham in our chapter. Notice that although there are three, they are referred to and addressed as one, and that Abraham not only receives them with all possible honor but evidently recognizes that they speak for the Lord. Swedenborg tells us that before the Advent the Lord appeared to men by "filling an angel with His presence." Isaiah (Isaiah 63:9) speaks of "the angel of his presence." Of the three men who appeared to Abraham Swedenborg says: "That this signifies the Divine Itself, the Divine Human, and the Holy proceeding, may be seen without explication; for it is known to everyone that there is a Trine, and that this Trine is a One." (@AC 2149) He explains this story as it refers to the Lord's early childhood, and says: "In the internal sense the subject here treated of is Jehovah, in that He appeared to the Lord, and that the Lord perceived this; but not by an appearing such as there was to Abraham; for it is historically true that three men were seen by Abraham, but this represents the Divine perception, or the perception from the Divine which the Lord had when in the Human."

The promise of an heir is the promise that our obedience to the Lord will have lasting good results. Sarah's laughter at the promise of a son pictures our natural tendency to doubt whether it is really worthwhile to try to be good. Abraham did not doubt and therefore we have the account of his conversation with the Lord concerning Sodom and Gomorrah, which is really a further explanation of the promise of an heir. The numbers picture various states of goodness and truth. Fifty is a full state. Five always means "a little." So five less than fifty means lacking only a little of a full state of goodness and truth. Forty pictures temptation, and we are told that the Lord never lets anyone come into temptation unless he has the strength to resist it if he chooses to do so. Thirty is a lesser degree of temptation. Twenty is "the good of ignorance" and is used of those who are good but are not yet adults. Ten signifies "remains" — states of good stored up in us by the Lord, especially from our early childhood, to help us when we are tempted. The lesson is that any one of these states of goodness has in it the elements of salvation. We all have in our natural heredity the elements of our spiritual destruction — Sodom and Gomorrah — but if we will hold fast whatever truth we learn and do our best to live according to it, the Lord will be able to save us in spite of our many mistakes and backslidings. It is only when we stop trying to learn of the Lord and to obey Him that we are following the road to spiritual destruction.

