
=== Notes for Parents

The wonderful story of the ten plagues in Egypt, the Passover feast, and the crossing of the Red Sea are stories we have recently studied. The lesson for today begins with the song of victory sung by the Israelites after their miraculous delivery from Pharaoh's army at the Red Sea.

Have you ever had some remarkable escape and felt thankful and been sure you would never forget it?

How soon did you forget? Most of us forget very soon. When the next trouble comes along, we are just as fearful and just as rebellious as ever. This was true of the children of Israel in the Bible story. As we read our Bibles, we wonder sometimes how the Jews could have witnessed so many miracles and still have been so easily turned to the worship of idols. But don't we do just the same thing? The Lord does many wonderful things for us and we mean to be good people, but somehow the ways of the other people around us and the desire for the good things of this world all too easily lead us astray. For a long time the good life seems dry and hard. It is like the wilderness through which the Israelites were traveling, where for three days they found no water. Water is the symbol of truth - we all speak of a "thirst for knowledge." The Lord will always give us truth when we ask for it, but sometimes we do not like it when we hear it. The desire to serve the Lord and other people is the only thing which can always make the truth sweet to us. This is the first part of the lesson for today.

The second part is the beautiful picture of the oasis at Elim, "where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees." If we are faithful, the Lord always provides that every so often when we are tired and discouraged, we shall come suddenly into a quiet, happy, peaceful state when we feel how good the Lord is to us and how surely He tells us the right way of life. We need these moments to prepare us for further progress. Perhaps they may come at a time when our children are being good and affectionate and we realize how much we love them and how sad it would be not to have them. They will come more often if we cultivate the habit of reading the Bible with the children at bedtime and talking with them about the Lord's teachings in it. You have probably known old people who find great joy in reading their Bibles. They did not just begin to read them. They started long ago, and learned gradually how much the habit could help them.

