
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The story of the actual entry into Jerusalem, while it should not be slighted, is so familiar to all the Adults that it need take up little of the class time, while the story and parable with which it is introduced are given only in Luke and therefore should be developed. The teacher will find plenty of discussion material in them.

---
In our chapter for today the Lord, on His way to Jerusalem for the last time, came to Jericho, that city near the Jordan which Swedenborg tells us represents instruction in the knowledges of good and truth and consequently the good of life, because no one can be instructed in the truths of doctrine who is not in the good of life (@AE 700[15]). We recall that in the parable of the Good Samaritan to go down from Jerusalem to Jericho meant to try to put spiritual knowledge into practice in outward conduct. The Lord had been teaching and healing in Galilee and in the cross—Jordan country — which represent the outer plane of life — and now He was ascending to Jerusalem for His deepest temptation and His greatest victory. At Jericho He found Zacchaeus the publican. Zacchaeus was rich in this world's goods, but he was "little of stature." Nevertheless, when he heard that the Lord was passing by, he "sought to see Jesus who he was." That is, he had a sincere desire to know the truth in regard to the Lord. The sycamore tree into which he climbed — an inferior type of fig — represents the external kind of truth and good of which the worldly man is capable (@AE 403, 805[10]). So we may think of Zacchaeus as a man lacking in spirituality who yet recognizes that external good works are "on the Lord's way," and determines to practice them, not from selfish motives, but to help him gain a better knowledge of the Lord. When he did see the Lord and heard that the Lord wished to enter his house, he received Him joyfully and immediately recognized and determined to correct his past evils. So the Lord could say to him, "This day is salvation come to this house."

The parable of the pounds is similar to the parable of the talents, but it is not identical. The emphasis here is on equality of opportunity. Each man was given a "pound" [actually a mina, worth about twenty dollars]. In @AE 675[7-9] we have a simple statement of the correspondence of this parable: "'The ten servants' whom the nobleman going into a far country called to him, mean all who are in the world, and in particular, all who are of the church ... 'the ten pounds that he pays to the ten servants to trade with' signify all the knowledges of truth and good from the Word, with the ability to perceive them ... and 'to trade' signifies by means of these to acquire intelligence and wisdom; those who acquire much are meant by the servant who from a pound gained ten pounds; and those who acquire some are meant by him who from a pound gained five pounds ... the 'cities which are said to be given them' signifies intelligence and wisdom, and life and happiness therefrom ... Those who do not acquire spiritual intelligence in the world through the knowledges of truth and good from the Word are evil." This parable is a picture of the way in which the Lord deals with each of us. In @DP 210 the reason for this is given and strikingly illustrated: "Man would not be man except for the appearance to him that he lives from himself, and therefore thinks and wills and speaks and acts as if from himself. From this it follows that unless man, as if from his own prudence, directs all things belonging to his employment and life, he can not be led and directed by the @DP ; for he would be like one standing with relaxed hands, opened mouth, closed eyes, and breath indrawn, awaiting influx. Thus he would divest himself of humanity, which he has from the perception and sensation that he lives, thinks, wills, speaks, and acts as if from himself: he would also divest himself of his two faculties, liberty and rationality, by which he is distinguished from the beasts."

The story of the last week of the Lord's life on earth is told in Luke in considerable detail, and we should all read and meditate upon it during this coming week, which the whole Christian world recognizes as Holy Week, and accepts as a period of special thoughtfulness and self-examination. The week begins today with Palm Sunday, the commemoration of the Lord's triumphal entry into Jerusalem.

The Lord's work on earth was almost finished. There remained the final temptation and then the full glorification or union with the Father. Many of the common people and a few of the leaders accepted Him as the Messiah. On Palm Sunday the Lord permitted His disciples to receive Him as their king, entering Jerusalem upon a donkey — the beast of judges and kings — amid the worship of the people. He knew the dark days ahead of Him and that the shouting throng would desert Him, but His mission was to fulfill the Old Testament Scriptures, and the manner of His entry into Jerusalem had been foretold (Zechariah 9:9). And the letter of the Word was but the outer form of the truth which His life was revealing. Every act and word of His was to serve for the instruction of men for all time. He entered Jerusalem as a king as a symbol that divine truth must enter our hearts and minds as absolute ruler. The acknowledgment of the authority of the Lord's truth is essential to the Christian life.

Swedenborg tells us that the donkey represents the affection for truth in the natural man and her colt rational truth which springs from this affection, or that the donkey and her colt symbolize "the natural man as to good and truth" (@AC 2781[7-9]). The Lord alone completely subjected the natural man; so the donkey was one "whereon yet never man sat," and the Lord's riding into Jerusalem in this way pictures His subordination of all thoughts which came from the natural. The disciples placed their garments under Him and the throng that came out to meet Him cast their garments in His path. So our garments — the thoughts and ideas which are the expression of our individual personalities — should be submitted to the Lord and made to conform to His way. The palm branches which the multitude brought (John 12:13) were symbols of the recognition that divine truth was present in the Lord (@AR 367). And the glorification "Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest" represents the true disciple's acknowledgment that "in Jesus Christ dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily," and that by His life on earth He brought the heavens and hells into order, fulfilling the promise made by the angels at His birth. The Lord's entry into Jerusalem was significant in every detail.

"And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it." The Lord's deepest grief was because men refused to see the things which belonged to their peace. He came into the world not to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved. On the cross He said, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." The Lord had no desire to punish the people for their rejection of Him, but even to the last He longed to open their eyes that they might see the precipice on which they were standing. So, even in the last week of His life on earth the Lord cleansed the temple, driving out those who bought and sold, as a symbol of what His truth must do in the temple of our souls.

