
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Bring out again the contrast between those whose minds are open to receive the Lord's teaching and those whose minds are closed by selfishness. The story of Zacchaeus is an important one for this age group, and they will be interested in its correspondence. In the Palm Sunday story proper, stress the Lord's attitude toward His enemies, as shown in His weeping over Jerusalem.

---
Today, as we know, is Palm Sunday, celebrated in memory of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on the first day of the last week of His life on earth. The last few lessons we have had have been about things He did and said as He was coming down from Galilee for the last time and about the distinction which was becoming increasingly clear between His disciples and the scribes and Pharisees. Wherever He went, many "publicans and sinners" had joined the disciples who welcomed Him and listened to Him gladly, but this made the scribes and Pharisees hate Him all the more.

The Lord and His apostles were coming to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. He had told them that He was to be put to death and they had tried to persuade Him not to come, although they did not really believe what He said. But the Lord rebuked them. He came to His death willingly, as a part of the work He had come into the world to do. The Lord is pure, unselfish love.

We should note that the journey the Lord took in our chapter for today is the reverse of the journey taken by the man who fell among thieves in the parable of the Good Samaritan, where the man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho. The Lord was going up from Jericho to Jerusalem, up from a period of outward ministration to the period of His deepest teaching and highest victory. The story of Zacchaeus with which the chapter opens may be linked with the parable of the Good Samaritan, for Zacchaeus was one who had spiritually "fallen among thieves." He pictures all of us little, erring people when we begin to feel our need to see the Lord. Zacchaeus climbed up into a sycamore tree. The Biblical sycamore tree was an inferior type of fig, and figs represent good works. The first thing for any of us to do, if we want to see the Lord, is to begin doing good as best we can. Then the Lord will come into our lives. "If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him."

The parable of the pounds shows us that the important thing for us to do is to use what the Lord has given us as well as possible in His service, however much or little it may be. "He that is faithful in little, is faithful also in much."

We are all familiar with the Palm Sunday story. The Lord rode into Jerusalem on a donkey, after the fashion of kings and judges. The donkey is a picture of our "natural reason," our ability to think and judge wisely about worldly matters. The donkey is a very sure—footed, but also very stubborn and unwilling to be directed by his master. Do you see how this is true of our natural reason? For instance, isn't it hard for us to believe that anything is really right and good which does not obviously "get us something"? The colt on which the Lord entered Jerusalem was one "whereon yet never man sat." That is, the Lord was the first ever to bring this power of the natural reason wholly under subjection to higher principles. The disciples and the multitude cast their garments in front of Him as He rode.

We may remember that garments represent the ideas with which we clothe our affections. The Lord's garments always picture truths of the letter of the Word, but our garments are not always truths, are they?

The people hailed the Lord as king, and the Pharisees objected.

The Lord gave them to understand that the people were right, but He was grieved instead of angry with them, and wept over Jerusalem, prophesying its destruction. This prophecy was literally fulfilled some forty years later. But the Lord was really speaking of the ancient Jewish Church. It had the Word, with all the prophecies of Christ's coming, but it refused to recognize Him. So it could no longer be the church through which the Lord could be present in the world. The Christian Church was to take its place. The state of the church was summed up in the condition in the temple, where the very court was used for buying and selling.

In thinking of what Holy Week should mean to us, we should ask ourselves whether we are like those who rejected the Lord and tried to put Him out of their lives or whether we are His faithful disciples. We should welcome Him as our king, submitting all our thoughts and acts to His judgment, just as the disciples cast their garments before Him. We should recognize that to take up our cross and follow the Lord means to try to forget self in service to others. In fact, we should think of the cross as the symbol of victory over selfishness, a victory which each of us can win with the Lord's help.

