
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Younger Children: What is today called? Why? Palm Sunday; people spread palm branches (John 12:13)

Younger Children: In our chapter, where was the Lord going? Jerusalem

Younger Children: What place did He pass through as noted at the beginning of the chapter? Jericho

Older Children: What is the difference between this journey and that of the man in the parable of the Good Samaritan? going the other way

Older Children: Who was Zacchaeus? a tax collector (publican)

Younger Children: Why couldn't Zacchaeus see the Lord? he was short

Younger Children: What did he do in order to see Him? climbed a tree

Older Children: What did the Lord say to him? come down ...

Older Children: What did Zacchaeus say which showed his character? "I give half to poor ... "

Older Children: What did the Lord tell him? this day is salvation come to this house

Older Children: How did the Pharisees feel about it? murmured against Him

Older Children: What did the Lord tell them? parable

Older Children: What parable did He give them? pounds

Older Children: Can you tell this parable? ten servants, pound apiece ...

Younger Teens: What does it teach us? use as well as we can what the Lord has given us

Younger Children: When the Lord came near Jerusalem, what did He tell two of His disciples to do? go and untie colt

Younger Children: What were they to say to the owner of the colt? the Lord needs him

Younger Children: Was the colt used to being ridden? no

Younger Children: How did the disciples prepare the colt to carry the Lord? put garments on it

Younger Children: What did the multitude cast in the road before the Lord? branches

Older Children: What did they cry? blessed be the king

Older Children: What did the Lord tell the Pharisees when they objected? the stones would cry out

Younger Teens: What did the Lord do and say as He looked at Jerusalem? wept, "if thou hadst dreamed ... "

Older Children: What did He prophesy? destruction of Jerusalem

Older Teens: What did He do when He entered the temple? cleansed

Older Teens: What did He say about the temple? house of prayer


