
=== Intermediate

Sketch for the class the whole story of Joseph in its simplest outlines, using the facts of today's lesson followed by those mentioned in the last paragraph of the notes for Adults. Most of the young people will be somewhat familiar with this story. Then take up the twelve sons of Jacob and their general meaning, the meaning of Joseph, and the importance of this quality to our ultimate salvation. The attitude of the older brothers toward Joseph can easily be illustrated from the young people's own experience. Most of them have at one time or another rebelled against going to Sunday school and church, and doubtless all know other young people — and older ones, too — who scoff at religion and stifle their own impulses to be good in any deep sense — that is, to do more than keep within the law.

When Jacob was sent away from home to Haran to save him from the wrath of Esau, he stayed away for twenty years. During that time, which he spent serving his uncle Laban, he married two daughters of Laban, Leah and Rachel, and had seven sons by them. He had four more sons by Bilhah and Zilpah, the handmaids of his two wives, and after he returned to Canaan, Rachel bore him a twelfth son, Benjamin. In those days people had forgotten that multiple marriages were wrong.

Jacob pictures the natural plane of our life. The Israelitish church, which was really a mere representative of a church, was to be developed among his descendants. Our outward acts, if they are not hypocritical, are pictures of the things hidden in our hearts and minds, even though we may never think of anything but outward acts and of what their results are likely to be for our life in this world. Jacob's twelve sons picture all our proper affections and thoughts through which this plane of outward conduct is developed and regulated. The earlier sons are the more external affections which develop first; the sons of the handmaids are those which serve our growth in a lower way; and the last two sons - born of Rachel, who was the wife Jacob loved best — represent the deep spiritual affections and thoughts which develop last. They are all good and useful and have their proper place in our lives.

But our more external and natural ideas and desires should be recognized as subordinate to the higher ones. When we first grow up, our ideas of religion are chiefly concerned with external conduct, but deep within us we have feelings which we cannot express and are sometimes ashamed to acknowledge, thinking our friends might laugh at them. It is these deep religious "remains" which will eventually save us from becoming entirely worldly and selfish. They are pictured by Joseph and Benjamin: Joseph, the affection for spiritual things; and Benjamin, the understanding of them or the desire to learn about them.

If we remember this, the story of Joseph becomes a wonderful parable. In our chapter today Joseph is pictured as different from his brothers and hated by them because of this difference. He is a dreamer. He has visions which tell him that he is to be greater than his brothers and even than his father and mother. His older brothers want to kill him. Is not this true of our interest in spiritual things when we are coming to maturity? We know it is really the most important thing in our lives, which gives us dreams and ideals for the future. Yet our external reasonings make fun of those dreams and ideals and do their best to stifle them. And they do succeed for a time in putting our Joseph away in Egypt — the land of mere memory-knowledge — and forgetting about him, pretending he is dead. How many young people stop going to church and Sunday school and try to forget the deeper aspects of religion as soon as they get out from under their parents' control!

But Joseph is not dead. He is preserved by the Lord in Egypt to be the savior of his whole family later in time of need. That is, the Lord preserves our early religious feelings and thoughts deep in our memories where we shall find them again when great need — the famine — arises in our lives.

We should also realize that the Old Testament in its inmost sense is a story of the life of the Lord Himself. Joseph is one of the Bible figures who most clearly picture the Lord. The Lord was different from others, a dreamer who knew that in the end all would bow down before Him. He went down into Egypt. He was sold for a few pieces of silver. His garments were taken from Him and used to prove His death. But He was not dead. We must keep this thought about the inmost meaning of the Word in our minds throughout our study of the Bible.

