
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: How many sons were born to Jacob in Haran? eleven

Junior: Who was the oldest? Reuben

Primary: Who was the last one born in Haran? Joseph

Primary: What son was born after they returned to Canaan? Benjamin

Junior: Which two sons were the children of Rachel? Joseph and Benjamin

Primary: Which son did Jacob love best? Joseph

Primary: What did Jacob make for Joseph? tunic of various colors

Junior: Why did Joseph's older brothers hate him? father's favorite, his dreams

Junior: Can you tell about Joseph's two dreams? sheaves; sun, moon, stars

Primary: On what errand did Jacob send Joseph? to find brothers

Junior: Where did Joseph find his brothers? Dothan

Primary: What did they decide to do? kill him

Junior: Who saved Joseph's life? Reuben

Primary: What did the brothers finally do with Joseph? threw him in a pit

Primary: Into what country was he sold? Egypt

Senior: What do the twelve sons of Jacob represent? all basic mental faculties

Intermediate: What does Joseph represent? spiritual principle

Senior: What is pictured by Joseph's being sold into Egypt? trying to relegate that principle to our external memory

== JOSEPH IN PRISON — Genesis 39; 40

A short review of the last lesson will lead easily into the story of Joseph. For the background of today's lesson the important points to bring out are the length of time Jacob stayed in Haran, the number of sons born to him there, the fact that Joseph was Rachel's son, and the reasons why his older brothers hated him. In all the older classes mention the meaning of the series Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and recall the meaning of Egypt which they learned in connection with the story of Abram and Lot. All the classes above the Primary should be fairly familiar with the general outline of the Joseph story. It is a long and interesting one, and the events are so closely connected that it is hard to pass over any of it. If the teacher prefers, he may tell the whole story very briefly before concentrating on the events of these two chapters.

