
=== Adult

Discussion should center in the difference between Saul and David, in the meaning of the continuance of Saul's reign after David was anointed, and in the meaning of the fact that David was not of Saul's line.

Swedenborg tells us in several places that David represents "The Lord in respect to Divine truth." He has a good deal to say of David in this connection (@AE 205 and elsewhere). We know that inmostly the whole of the Old Testament treats of the Lord's life and that all the leading figures in it represent the Lord in one or another aspect. We should, therefore, think of David and others as representative figures whose external lives were ruled over by divine providence in such a way that their record in the Scriptures might, through correspondence, express divine truth for all men in all times. There was a real David, a man like other men, compounded of good and evil, an individual soul just as important to the Lord as any other soul and no more. Of him we know little. But of David, the actor in the great drama of Scripture, we are told much. The many prophecies in which the Lord is connected with David all refer to David in this representative character; so we need not be confused by the statements that the Lord was "of David's line" and "the Son of David." The Lord Himself pointed this out to the Pharisees in Matthew 22:41-46.

In our study, however, we are trying consistently to relate the Scripture story to our own lives as well as to the Lord's life. So we must try to see what David means in us. The three great kings all represent the rule of divine truth, but on successively higher levels. Saul, as we have seen, represents divine truth apprehended in an external and necessarily superficial way. David pictures a more spiritual understanding of truth — "The Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart." "For the Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." Everything about David places his meaning on the spiritual plane of the mind. He is a "mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters [or in speech]"; yet he is called while guarding sheep, signifying the protecting of innocent affections. He is a "cunning player on the harp," the symbol of "spiritual truth" (@AC 419). Later we shall find that he overcomes Israel's internal enemies, at last occupies Jerusalem, and brings the ark there.

Divine truth does not change, but our understanding of it changes. We must pass from our first natural and external understanding to a spiritual understanding of it which will enable us to see through appearances, to expose and correct deeper evils, and to set our internal house in order. When the results of our first efforts to apply truth to life are unsatisfactory, we must realize that the truth has not failed, but that our understanding of it is inadequate and that we must seek a deeper understanding. If our desire to do good remains steadfast, we shall be led, in our search for a new "king," to Bethlehem, the "house of bread," which Swedenborg tells us signifies "the spiritual of the celestial" (@AC 4594) or "the truth of good." This is the same place to which the Wise Men were led to find the Incarnate Word. That is, by patient effort and with the Lord's guidance, our good desire will lead us to an understanding of truth which will enable our desire to accomplish corresponding good results.

This change in our understanding of truth is not accomplished in a moment. In 1 Samuel 15:35 we read, "And the Lord repented that he had made Saul king over Israel." We know that this again is the language of appearance. The Lord does not change His mind, but our apprehension of His will with regard to our conduct does change. So in the letter of the story He tells Samuel to cease mourning for Saul, to fill his horn with oil, and go to Bethlehem to anoint the new king. When we realize that our understanding of truth has been too superficial and has led us to make mistakes, we recognize the necessity of a new understanding, and the Lord's love working in us discovers and anoints a new "king." But we cannot at once remove Saul. The habits of judgment which we have formed are still dear to us; in the ordinary affairs of life they still hold sway. Only in critical cases do we seek out and depend upon the new leader. Nor is our new understanding sufficiently developed to take immediate control. It must be tried out over a long period until we come to trust it fully. So Saul continues to reign, and David, although anointed king, becomes recognized only gradually. But the spirit of the Lord has departed from Saul and is with David. We are conscious of the lack in our old understanding and of the fact that we have transferred the real authority to the new.

The first relationship between Saul and David is interesting in its suggestions. Swedenborg says, "Because the 'harp' signifies confession from spiritual truths, and spiritual truths are those by which angels of the Lord's spiritual kingdom are affected, and which disperse the falsities of evil, Saul's evil spirit was driven away by David's playing." (@AE 323[12]) Saul at first loved David greatly and made him his armor-bearer. It seems at first as if the old understanding and the new can go hand in hand, as if we can keep our familiar judgments as to right and wrong, only employing the new deeper insight to cleanse them of their obvious falsities and to bolster them up in their attacks upon evil. Sometimes, for example, one who has been brought up believing a strictly literal acceptance of the Scriptures and is used to drawing certain obvious lessons from the letter, may be led — through attacks on his faith which he cannot meet — to accept a spiritual interpretation of the Word. He sees that it is true, and uses it to cope with particular perplexities and doubts; yet he clings to his old ideas of the literal sense wherever it has proved satisfactory to him, and for a long time refuses to recognize that the whole must be interpreted according to its spiritual meaning. Or, a young person who has found himself mistaken in some of his judgments sees that a higher principle will help him to revise those particular judgments; yet he hesitates to apply it to other judgments in which he has not been forced to admit himself mistaken.

Habits once formed, whether mental or physical, are hard to break, and Saul lingers on the throne a long time, at first friendly to David and then actively antagonistic to him when he realizes that David must eventually wholly supplant him. Yet once David is anointed, his power gradually increases and Saul's power wanes. Saul's son, however friendly to David he may be, cannot occupy the throne. Even the best and truest offspring of our natural understanding can serve only as a temporary help to the establishment of the higher judgment. We are reminded of the Lord's words concerning John the Baptist: "Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he." There is the same discrete degree between the natural and the spiritual understanding of truth that there is between reformation and regeneration.

