
=== Intermediate

The fallacy of judging from appearances should be stressed. These children are at the age when they form hasty judgments and are very sure they are right. Through the stories of Saul's mistakes and the difference between Saul and David, they can be led to realize that there is a higher kind of judgment into which they will grow later, and this will be a great help to their parents in dealing with them.

As we read the story of Saul and his hasty and unwise actions, we see how our natural reason fails at crucial points. Everything Saul did seemed reasonable to him, and he could not believe that what Samuel told him to do was really wiser. Judging things by their outward appearance and always looking to the immediate external results as the test of what is best, our natural reason cannot deal with inner problems or wholly trust the wisdom of the Lord's commands. It is always saying of spiritual truth: "I can't see how this can be so."

David as king also represents the rule of truth, but it is truth understood in a deeper and more spiritual way. When our natural reason is seen to be faulty, we look for some deeper understanding to guide us. The character of this deeper understanding, which is pictured by David, appears from his occupation. He was a shepherd. That is, the deeper understanding of truth is founded on a desire to cherish and protect innocence, which is essentially the desire and willingness to be led by the Lord, and not merely, like the natural reason pictured by Saul, on a desire to reach a "common—sense" answer to our problems. You remember that Saul, when Samuel met him, was looking for his father's donkeys. Look up the correspondence of the donkey and the lamb.

As soon as David was anointed, the power from the Lord departed from Saul. Just as soon as we have seen that we must think from spiritual principles, we begin to find a great deal wrong with common sense. But Saul is still acting as king. We cannot change our habits of thought in a moment.

At first, Saul was aware of his new position only by his recurring "black moods," and David was able to be his armor-bearer and to soothe him with his music. Several musical instruments are mentioned in the Bible, and Swedenborg tells that they picture different ways of expressing our love for the Lord. Wind instruments are symbolic of simple and direct expressions of affection, but stringed instruments stand for expressions of it by means of truths. David was to be called "the sweet psalmist of Israel," and many of the Psalms were written through him. The book of Psalms is usually referred to by Swedenborg as the book of David.

We might say that David's playing before Saul was a form of reasoning from love. Have you ever been cross and irritable with your mother, for example, and suddenly come to yourself through the single thought of how much you really love her? Our love for the Lord, if we take time to express it, will cure many "black moods." This is one of the special uses of the regular reading of the Word and of prayer. They make all our selfish reasonings seem unworthy — as they are. When the Lord came into the world, He came as divine truth to show us how to live. So He was born of the line of David and was called "the son of David." And He was born in David's birthplace, Bethlehem. The word Bethlehem means "house of bread," and Swedenborg tells us that Bethlehem corresponds to "truth from good."

The description of David given in verse 18 of our chapter is interesting. The first impression that we get of him at the time of his anointing (verses 11 and 12) is that of a young boy, but here he is called "a mighty valiant man, and a man of war." To worldly people spiritual truths often seem beautiful but childish. It is only when we have come into displeasure with ourselves and recognize our need of help and comfort, as Saul did when the "evil spirit" was upon him, that we can feel the power of spiritual truth. David was to be the fighting king who overcame all the enemies of Israel within the Holy Land. He trusted in the Lord instead of in himself, and so the Lord's power could be with him. If we trust in the Lord and obey Him, He can give us victory over all our inner foes.

