
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: What did the Lord tell Samuel about Saul and his line? to lose kingdom

Primary: Where did the Lord send Samuel to find a new king? Bethlehem

Primary: Who else was born in Bethlehem? Jesus, also Benjamin

Primary: What did Samuel think when he saw Jesse's eldest son? here was the one

Primary: What did the Lord tell him? not this one

Junior: How many sons of Jesse did the Lord reject? seven

Primary: What was David doing when they sent for him? tending sheep

Junior: What happened to David when he was anointed? spirit of Lord came on him

Junior: What happened to Saul at the same time? evil spirit troubled him

Primary: What did David look like? ruddy, handsome

Junior: What other qualities did he have? warrior, poet, obedient to God

Primary: On what instrument did David play? lyre (harp)

Junior: How did David come to Saul's attention? soothed with music

Junior: What position did Saul give him? armor-bearer

Junior: What book in the Bible was written in part through David? Psalms

Intermediate: To what does David correspond? truth understood spiritually ruling in life

Senior: What is pictured by Saul's continuing on the throne after David was anointed? old habits hard to change

== DAVID AND GOLIATH — 1 Samuel 17

The Word gives us many events in the history of the three great kings, but in our course we have only four lessons on each of the three. We need therefore to keep in mind their relative significance rather than the various events of their reigns. They represent three stages in our regeneration as adults, the rule of truth on three different planes. Saul is the truth seen and applied according to external appearances. This is a hasty, superficial, and imperfect judgment. Saul's failure came from his desire to get things done in a hurry and his unwillingness to obey the Lord's commands when his own judgment did not coincide. David represents the same truth but seen in its deeper application to motives and thoughts, with the recognition of our own inherent weakness and need of the Lord's guidance and help. Solomon represents the same truth after it has been obeyed until it has come to be written on our hearts. Keeping this outline in mind will enable the teacher — even with little children — to put the emphasis in each story where it belongs. This is especially necessary in our story for today, in which there are so many interesting details for the children that the point of the story is apt to be lost sight of.

