SWEDENBORG'S PREPARATION 
by Alfred Acton, M.A., D.Th. 

An Address given at the Victoria Hall, London, on the occasion of the celebration of the Two Hundredth 

Anniversary of the Publication of Arcana Caelestia, June 21st, 1949. 

SWEDENBORG SOCIETY (Inc.) TRANSACTIONS - Number Five 

Swedenborg Society, Swedenborg House 

Bloomsbury Way, London, W.C. 1 

(Printed in Great Britain by The Campfield Press, St. Albans, in 1951) 

MR. CHAIRMAN AND FRIENDS OF THE AUDIENCE: 

As your Chairman has stated, we are met together to celebrate the two hundredth anniversary of 
the publication of the Arcana Caelestia. Swedenborg commenced the writing of this work in 
November 1748, at a place not far distant from the very center of this city, and it was published in 
the following summer. This publication was the culmination of an event which had happened three 
years before. In April 1745, the Lord appeared to Swedenborg and announced that he was to be 
appointed the servant of the Lord to reveal to the Christian world the spiritual sense of the Word 
and the nature of the spiritual world, and that for this purpose he was to be admitted into the 
spiritual world at the same time that he was present in the natural world. 

There have been many men who have claimed to be revelators, but most if not all of these men have 
received their revelation by a dictation of some sort, and have at once proclaimed their mission and 
promulgated their so-called revelation. In this respect Swedenborg was unique, for it was three 
years from the time of his call before he put his pen to paper to write the first of those works that 
mark the Second Coming of the Lord. In those three years he laboured; he wrote thousands of pages 
of manuscript; he read the Bible through and through many times; he wrote and indexed his 
experiences in the spiritual world, and he studied and mastered the Hebrew language. These three 
years constitute the last stage of Swedenborg's preparation for his mission as Revelator. Such 
preparation would not have been necessary for a dictated revelation, but for a rational revelation it 
was indispensable. 

As I have said, these three years of arduous study were the last stage in Swedenborg's preparation. 
But preceding them were many years of preparation in the field of science and philosophy; for the 
revelation now given to the New Church is a revelation of spiritual truths clothed in rational 
language and confirmed by philosophic and scientific truths, and such a revelation could not have 

 
 
 
 
 
been given save by means of a man whose understanding had been formed by a true science and a 
rational philosophy. 

It is of this earlier preparation of Swedenborg, prior to the commission which he received from the 
Lord in April 1745, that I wish to speak this evening.  

Listen now to what Swedenborg himself says on this subject:  

"The things represented spiritually by the acts of life do not come to the knowledge of the men 
themselves unless this be the good pleasure of God Messiah. Sometimes it occurs a long time 
afterwards, as was also the case with me.... At the time I did not perceive what the acts of my life 
involved, but afterwards I was instructed concerning some of them, nay, concerning a number; and 
from these I could at last plainly see that the tenor of Divine Providence has ruled the acts of my life 
from my very youth, and has so governed them that I might finally come to the present end; that 
thus, by means of the knowledge of natural things, I might be able to understand those things which 
lie more interiorly within the Word of God Messiah, and so ... might serve as an instrument for 
opening them. (The Word Explained, n. 2532.)  

It is this preparation that I would dwell on. But first let me speak about his health. It was very 
necessary for a man who was to engage in the very arduous work that occupied Swedenborg during 
the whole of his life that he should enjoy good health. His father lived to the age of eighty-two, and 
he himself to the age of eighty-four. He came of a sturdy stock, the Dalecarlian, a mining stock, one 
of the most healthy stocks in the land of Sweden. His grandfather was a man of great enterprise, and 
his father a man of vigorous health. Swedenborg could not possibly have done his work nor could 
he have made the many wearisome journeys which he undertook unless he had been in good 
health. During his whole life, only two sicknesses are recorded, one in Paris when he was twenty-
five, and the other in London shortly prior to his death. 

Another characteristic that can be traced to his Dalecarlian ancestry is his independence of thought. 
The Dalecarlians have been noted in Swedish history for their vigorous independence. In the words 
of a Swedish author, the cold skies under which the Dalecarlian lives, the thankless earth which he 
ploughs, the hard rock from which he mines his living, have given him a free and strong soul, 
independence in his being, seriousness of mind, and have made him a man for himself, honorable in 
behavior, fearless in deed, a stranger to fear, and unbendable in his opposition to despotic power. 
(Svensk, Konversations Lexicon, s. v., Dalarna.)  

It was Engelbrecht, the Dalecarlian, who, in the middle of the fifteenth century, led his people 
against Danish tyranny and shook off the Danish yoke; and in Swedish history, the Dalecarlians 
have ever risen up in rebellion when their liberties were threatened. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It was necessary that Swedenborg should have this inheritance of fearlessness and independence; 
for while in the beginning of his literary career he was admired by his contemporaries for his 
profound learning, and his works were widely reviewed by the learned journals of Europe, yet, as 
he developed his doctrines concerning the soul and its operation in the body, with the related 
doctrines of degrees and correspondences, his fame suffered. The reviewers, unable to understand 
him, characterized his doctrines as silly trifles. Swedenborg was fully aware of this decline in his 
reputation as a learned man, for he read the reviews. Yet he continued to write and publish; and in 
his writings he continued to develop those very doctrines which he knew would be viewed with 
disfavor and even ridiculed. I know that I speak strange things (he writes in one of his unpublished 
works, The Fibre, n. 520), but what does it matter since they are true. For a man of Swedenborg's 
ambition thus to face the lessening of his fame, required not only deep conviction but also courage 
and independence; and Swedenborg had both. 

It is also significant that Swedenborg came from a mining family and began his studies with 
researches into the mineral kingdom, the ultimate kingdom of nature. 

Swedenborg came of a deeply religious family, and his early years were passed in a home of true 
Christian piety. His father was a pious man--not a pietist in any false sense of the word, but a pietist 
in the sense that he believed a truly Christian character depended on obedience to the Ten 
Commandments. He enjoyed his glass of ale and his games, but above all he preached and observed 
the doctrine of charity. He had no patience with dogmatic theology, and viewed the Bible and the 
Church as being solely for the cleansing of the heart. At a time when the Lutheran Church in 
Sweden, in common with that Church in other lands, had become more and more formal; when the 
clergy had little regard for the good of life, and the learned among them gave their greatest thought 
to dogmatic theology; Bishop Swedberg's sermons and books were devoted wholly to the teaching 
of obedience to the Word of God. "Verbal theology (he says in his Autobiography, p. 396) has never 
been a pleasure to me, but real theology"; and earlier in the same work, he declares, "I have never 
had any liking for disputatious writings, but the utmost repugnance for them."  

His sermons were always in simple, homely language and filled with telling quotations from the 
Bible.  

When we consider the aversion which Swedenborg's father had for verbal theology, an aversion 
which the freely speaking Bishop was never tired of expressing, we find some added significance in 
the words which Swedenborg wrote, many years later, in a letter to Dr. Beyer:  

"I was forbidden to read writers on dogmatic theology before heaven was opened to me, because 
thereby unfounded opinions and inventions might easily have insinuated themselves which 
afterward could have been removed only with difficulty." (Feb. 1767, 2 Documents concerning 
Swedenborg, 260) 

 
 
 
 
 
Bishop Swedberg was also a determined enemy to the doctrine of faith alone, which he called 
hjernetro in contrast with hiertatro (Brain faith and heart faith) --a play on the words hjerne, the 
brain, and hierta, the heart. This damnable faith (he says) now rules everywhere in Christendom, 
especially with those who are called Lutherans. If a man goes to church at set times in the year, 
partakes of the Holy Supper, and with all this lives in all kinds of corporeal sins, there is no need of 
aught else. (Lefvernes Beskrifv., p. 488) 

Faith alone, the great faith, will accomplish all. None shall tell them aught save that they are good 
Lutherans and Christians and will without doubt be blessed. In a large congregation are hundreds 
of Lutherans; in a great city many thousands; in the whole Lutheran world countless thousands. Go 
and ask any one of them, yes, indeed, each one, Do you feel yourself saved? Certainly, I have faith. 
(Lefvernes Beskrifv., p. 89). 

Bishop Swedberg condemns Paul for introducing the word "alone" in his translation,  Man is 
justified by faith alone, and points out that the word alone is not in the Greek text. Its introduction 
by Paul (he continues) has raised up endless and heated verbal contentions between us and the 
Papists. (Lefvernes Beskrifv., p. 368).  

Swedenborg also, in one of his works, pronounces the same condemnation, saying, I believe that 
never in his life did Luther commit a greater sin than when from himself he added the word alone. 
(Faith and Good Works, n. 3 (in Psych. Trans., p. 12). 

Bishop Swedberg was so interested in training the young in the Christian life, rather than in 
dogmatic theology, that he took a special interest in the education of children, and especially in the 
training of their will. The schools (he says), both elementary and advanced, give all their attention 
to teaching the understanding; but that the will shall be broken, bent, held in check, and directed 
from evil to good--lo, one cares little for that. (Lefvernes Beskrifv., p. 223). 

Moreover, he rejected the idea of three Persons--the idea namely, that there is one God in three 
distinct Persons. He writes: God decreed from eternity that man should again be united with God, 
and God with man. God became Man, and the two natures were so bound together that from them 
there became one Person. (Lefvernes Beskrifv., p. 480).  

Again he writes: Christ is God and Man in one Person. (Lefvernes Beskrifv., p. 492).  

Here we find significance in the words written by Swedenborg in the last work which he published: 
From my infancy I could not admit into my mind any other idea than that of one God. (True 
Christian Religion, n. 16). 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bishop Swedberg left Upsala in 1696, when his son Emanuel was eight and a half years old, and for 
the next ten years, except for the holidays, the latter, pursuing his studies in Upsala, lived in the 
home of his learned brother-in-law Eric Benzelius. But during those early years of childhood, when 
living in his fathers home, the idea of the life of charity and of the Lord Jesus Christ as the one 
Person in whom God is revealed, must have been deeply impressed on his mind.  

Significant then is the account of his first youth which Swedenborg wrote in 1769, in a letter to Dr. 
Beyer, on Nov. 14, 1769 (2 Doc., 279). These are his words:  

"From my fourth to my tenth year I was constantly engaged in thought upon God, salvation, and the 
spiritual diseases of men, and several times I revealed things at which my father and mother 
wondered, saying that angels must be speaking through me. From my sixth to my twelfth year I 
used to delight in conversing with clergymen about faith, saying that the life of faith is love to the 
neighbor. At that time I knew nothing of that learned faith which teaches that God the Father 
imputes the righteousness of His Son to whomsoever and at such times as He chooses, even to those 
who have not repented and have not reformed their lives; and had I heard of such a faith, it would 
have been, as it is now, above my comprehension." 

Significant also of the influence brought to bear on Swedenborg's mind when as a child he lived in 
his paternal home is the fact that his father had implicit belief in the reality of the spiritual world. 
One night, when Jesper Swedberg was thirteen years of age, he had what he called a revelation or 
vision - "Which it was" (he says) (in Lefv. Beskrifv., p. 47 seq.), "I know not" - in which he saw two 
houses connected by a passage. Near the passage was a large tub filled with water. At its side stood 
the Savior. Crowds came, some were washed by the Savior and sent to His glorious room on the 
right. The others He drove to the room on the left. Jesper Swedberg stood in fear and trembling and 
prayed that God would deem him worthy. He was chosen, washed, and sent into the room on the 
right. There he recognized many, and there he heard things which no human tongue can utter. 
When all had been judged, the Savior took Jesper Swedberg by the hand and led him to the house at 
the left or west, where the devils were. In the murky light of that horrible room, he saw men and 
women dancing with lewd motions. In the middle of the room he saw a deep hole burning with fire 
and brimstone. Men, tortured by the flames, were trying vainly to climb out, but were pushed back, 
making frightful screams. In the room was also a pulpit occupied by a man with a large hat coming 
down to his ears, but Jesper did not hear what he was preaching, for the Savior led him away, 
saying, "Thank thy God that thou comest not here". Coming to the heavenly house, he joined the 
others in singing with a loud voice, Holy, Holy, Holy; and then he awoke.  

This dream or vision made a profound impression on the mind of the thirteen-year-old child, and it 
led to his determination to study for the ministry. 

 
 
 
 
 
Seven years later, he was confirmed in this determination in a singular way. It was in a large village. 
There, in the morning, he had entered into the work of the ministry by preaching his first sermon. 
In the evening, the church was closed, yet from it he heard the sound of an organ and voices singing 
godly Psalms. This was heard, not only by Jesper himself but also by all the villagers; yet the church 
was empty and it contained no organ. (Lefv. Beskrifv., p. 46). 

Jesper Swedberg lived in a superstitious age, but he himself was not superstitious. He had a firm 
belief in the actuality of the spiritual world. He believed also that it may be possible at any time for 
the presence of the spiritual world to be manifested to men on earth. Certainly, the few visions of 
which he speaks did not lead him into any visionary ecstasy. They did not lead him to seek visions 
or even to desire them, but served only to confirm him in the truths of the Word.  

When he heard of supernatural experiences, he was at pains to examine the evidence as to their 
reality. As I have always believed in God's clearly revealed Word (he writes in his Autobiography, p. 
538),  

"I have never asked for any miracle; neither have I ever been credulous when told that a miracle 
had taken place. Yet I have always been of the opinion that when it pleased God to perform a 
miracle, one should not wholly reject it, when one is sure that it is not something natural or 
something made up, or the sport and deception of Satan." 

Now it is not surprising that the father of Emanuel Swedenborg not only should believe in the 
spiritual world but should have some experience of the presence of spirits. If it takes several 
generations to make a gentleman, we should not be surprised at there being an hereditary tendency 
which prepared Swedenborg to be in both worlds at the same time. 

Swedenborg's spiritual experiences involve a latent ability to abstract the mind from external 
surroundings; and who shall say that this ability was not the result of his pious Dalecarlian 
ancestry. Such ability, moreover, must rest on some special form induced on the finest organic 
substances of the mind - a form that would come by inheritance.  

Such an heredity must be assumed if we are to account for a phenomenon experienced by 
Swedenborg which is both striking and unique. I refer to the tacit breathing which he experienced, 
even as a child, the breathing of the lungs being almost suspended. We know that when the 
passions of the animus are aroused, a mans breathing is stertorous and harsh; and, on the other 
hand, when a man thinks deeply, his breathing is quiet and peaceful. The reason of this is because, 
when the passions of the animus or external mind are aroused, those passions have their seat, and 
manifest their presence, in the body itself, whereas, when the thought is profound and abstracted, 
the passions of the animus are allayed, as it were, and the spirit itself breathes almost apart from 

 
 
 
 
 
 
the body. This breathing of the spirit is not an abstract thing but is an actual breathing; it is the 
animation of the finest substances in the brain where is the seat of the spirit. 

Swedenborg himself says that he could not have thought profoundly unless he had been able so to 
separate the breathing of the spirit from the breathing of the lungs that the breathing of the lungs 
was almost tacit; and, furthermore, that the ability to do this implies some peculiar formation in the 
inmost substances of the organic mind. Such a formation cannot be separated from heredity.  

Here are his own words, as written in his Economy of the Animal Kingdom, n. 19: "To search out the 
causes of things from given phenomena is a peculiar gift into which the infants brain is in a way 
inducted from its first stem, and into which it is later imbued by many stages of use and 
cultivation." 

Later, when writing in his Memorabilia (n. 3317) concerning the respiration of the men of the Most 
Ancient Church, he says that he could perceive and believe that this respiration was varied 
according to the state of their faith, because my respiration has been so formed by the Lord that I 
could breathe internally for some length of time without the help of the external air, so that the 
breathing was directed within and yet the external senses remained in their vigor and also the 
actions. This could not be the case save with those who have been so formed by the Lord. 

That the respiration is in correspondence with the thought (he goes on to say), of this it was 
granted me to have much experience, before I spoke with spirits, as when, in infancy, I purposely 
wished to hold my breath when praying in the morning or evening and also later, when I was 
writing in imagination, when I observed that I held my breath; it was tacit, as it were. (Memorabilia 
n. 3320).  

A little later, in October 1748, thus a few weeks before commencing the Arcana Caelestia, he writes 
(in Memorabilia n. 3464): "I was first accustomed to breathe in this way in infancy when saying 
morning and evening prayers, and also at times afterward when explaining the concordance of the 
lungs and the heart, and especially when, for many years, I was writing from my mind the works 
that have been published. I then observed frequently that the respiration was tacit, almost 
insensible. It was later granted me to think and to write concerning this. Thus I was introduced to 
such respiration throughout many years from infancy, and especially by intense speculation, in 
which the respiration became quiescent; otherwise, an intense speculation of truth is not possible. 
Sufficient air was drawn in to enable me to think. By this means it is granted me to be with spirits 
and angels." 

And now I turn to a phase of Swedenborg's life that must be peculiarly interesting to Englishmen, 
especially to Londoners.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 1766, Swedenborg was asked by a Prelate of Germany, (Oetinger; see 2 Doc. 256.) why, from a 
philosopher, he became a theologian. His answer was as follows:  

"The reason is, in order that the spiritual things now being revealed may be taught and understood 
naturally and rationally; for spiritual truths have a correspondence with natural truths. For this 
reason, I was introduced by the Lord first into the natural sciences and thus prepared, and, in fact, 
from the year 1710 to the year 1744 when heaven was opened to me. The Lord has further granted 
me to love truth in a spiritual manner." 

Note the years here mentioned, 1710 to 1744. In the year 1710, on the tenth day of May, 
Swedenborg, making his first voyage, landed in London. In 1744 he was for the second time in 
London, and it was then that heaven was opened to him. In 1710 he was twenty-two years of age. 
His previous years had all been spent in the university town of Upsala, under the guidance of 
professors. Here, naturally, he had not much opportunity for developing independence of thought. 
And now, in 1710, he had come from a small university town of less than two thousand inhabitants 
into a great city of half a million inhabitants.  

But what is most important in this his first visit to England in the year 1710 when he was first 
introduced by the Lord into the natural sciences, is the fact that he came into a land where was 
freedom of speech and freedom of the press. On his first arrival in London, this fact was brought to 
Swedenborg's attention in a very lively way; for the whole city was engaged in a heated discussion, 
by pamphlets and coffee-house discussion, concerning the power of the crown over the subject, and 
the duties of the citizen to the crown. (Letters and Memorials of Emanuel Swedenborg, p. 12.)  

The young student must certainly have been amazed at the fact that, despite the bitter and public 
criticisms against the government, no one was arrested. Such political controversies would never 
have been tolerated in Sweden, nor in any country on the Continent, except Holland. England and 
Holland were the only countries where there was freedom of the press and freedom of speech; but 
in Holland, that freedom was circumscribed by the Calvinism of the State Church. 

Swedenborg remained in England for nearly three years, but those years were the most formative 
years of his life. He had never previously been in a great city. His life had been spent in a university 
town where thought and discussion were more or less dominated by the spirit of dogmatic 
theology.  

And now, a young man of impressionable age, he was in a country where was utter freedom of 
thought and investigation. He was intimate with the Astronomer Royal, John Flamsteed. He visited 
Oxford and had learned discussions with the Savillian Professor of Mathematics and eminent 
Astronomer, Halley, and also with Dr. Hudson, the Bodleian Librarian. He attended meetings of the 
Philosophical Society, and visited many of its members in their homes. He discussed mineralogy 

 
 
 
 
 
 
with the geologist, Dr. John Woodward; he had frequent talks with the publisher and publicist, John 
Chamberlayne; he discussed mathematical instruments with the scientific inventor, Francis 
Hawksbee, and the famous instrument maker, Marshall; he read the Philosophical Transactions and 
other English writings. And all this, as I have said, at the most formative period of his life. Truly we 
can say that, while his body was born in Sweden and his inheritance was Swedish, his mind is also a 
child of England, that is, of the freedom of thought and discussion, and of the boldness of 
investigation which characterized the English nation. It was England that fostered in him that 
boldness of thought, freed from the fetters of dogmatic theology, which characterizes his 
philosophical writings and his political activities in the Swedish Diet.  

On his return to Sweden in 1715, one of the first effects of his visit to England was his publication of 
a quarterly which he called the Daedalus Hyperboreus (the Daedalus of the North). The remarkable 
thing about this paper was that, instead of being written in Latin, it was written in Swedish. His 
mind was inspired by the example set by the Royal Society whose Philosophical Transactions were 
published, not in Latin as was the universal custom in Europe in the case of learned works, but in 
the native language. Swedenborg was determined that the Swedes, including the ordinary man who 
was ignorant of Latin, should have the same opportunity of learning the sciences as the English; 
that by the investigation of natural phenomena, the whole nation should be aroused to think, and to 
take an active interest in the conclusions drawn by the learned. 

But Swedenborg had to provide for his living. In 1716, he thought of becoming a professor of 
physics, but one limitation to this was the fact that he stammered. Nevertheless, he might have 
become a professor, or a director of a physical laboratory, for he was highly thought of by the 
professors in Upsala University; had he not been appointed by Charles the Twelfth to be an 
Assistant to the great Swedish Engineer Polhem in the building of a dry dock, in the construction of 
a canal, and, incidentally, in the transporting of large galleys overland to an inlet of the sea 
wherefrom Charles the Twelfth could attack the Norwegians.  

These works were all engineering works, and I suppose, had Swedenborg lived at this day, he would 
have been called a Civil Engineer. He describes some of these works. For instance, the dry dock: A 
dock was to be blasted into a rocky cliff facing the sea, and for this purpose a circular dam had to be 
built in order to afford a dry space for the blasting. Swedenborg was charged with measuring the 
floor of the sea in order to fit the bottom of the dam to its contours. He also had some part in the 
building of the dam itself, which was built above the water and then lowered. 

These engineering works greatly interested Swedenborg, but he was still more interested in 
investigating the phenomena of nature and the committing of his thoughts to paper, especially with 
a view to publishing them in his Daedalus Hyperboreus. 

 
 
 
 
 
When Charles the Twelfth died in 1719, Swedenborg took his seat as an Assessor in the College of 
Mines, to which office Charles had appointed him in 1716, though temporarily delegating him to 
assist the engineering works carried on by Polhem. In the College of Mines he devoted himself to 
the study of mineralogy and chemistry. 

His position as an Assessor in this College was a very important one. The Assessors of the College 
had judicial functions in all matters concerning the mining and smelting industry in Sweden--leases, 
the quality of the iron produced, safety devices, disputes with workmen, etc. Every summer, 
Assessors were sent out to the various mining districts to hear cases and take testimony. This they 
reported to the full College where decisions were made by majority vote. 

Swedenborg was diligent in this work, but his real interest lay in searching more deeply into the 
phenomena of nature. He delved deeply into the study of chemistry, and, for the purpose of learning 
the operation of the soul in the body, he entered upon the study of anatomy, particularly the 
anatomy of the brain. 

In 1721 and 1722 he published, in Amsterdam and Leipzig, as the results of his studies, his 
Forerunner of the Principia (commonly called Chemistry) and his Miscellaneous Observations, in 
which works we see the seeds of those doctrines which were later developed in the Principia. He 
also issued a prospectus of a work in several volumes which was to treat of the various minerals. 

The following years were occupied in the preparation of these volumes, and in 1734 he went to 
Leipzig and there published the fruits of his studies, in three folio volumes, entitled Opera 
Mineralia. This work is specially remarkable in that, while the second and third volumes deal with 
Iron and Copper in a purely scientific way, the first volume, entitled the Principia, commences with 
a philosophical consideration of how the finite was created by the Infinite. So far as I know, no man 
in literature has ever ventured to try to solve the problem of how the finite was created by the 
Infinite. St. Augustine toyed with the idea that God created the world from His own Substance, but 
he concluded that this would involve pantheism--that matter was God; therefore he propounded 
the doctrine which has ever since prevailed among Christian theologians, that the world was 
created from nothing. (See A Philosophers Note Book, pp. 27, 138, 252). 

Swedenborg was not satisfied with this. Knowing that from nothing, nothing comes, he concluded 
that creation was not only from God but was actually the finiting of Infinite Substance.  

Thus early was his mind formed for seeing in clear light the teaching of Revelation, (True Christian 
Religion, n. 33) that God created the world by finiting His Infinity by means of substances emitted 
from Himself. 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The Writings say nothing as to how God finited His Infinity, but in the Principia, Swedenborg essays 
to take up this problem, and his solution is not only in agreement with the teaching of Revelation, 
but it greatly enlightens our understanding of that teaching. 

Swedenborg's reasoning is similar to that of Euclid when teaching of the origin of geometry. That 
origin, says Euclid, is a point without length, breadth, and thickness. The Feint moved in one 
direction makes a line which has length but no breadth or thickness. The line moved in one 
direction makes an area having length and breadth but no thickness. An area moved in one 
direction makes a body having length, breadth, and thickness, and thus comprehensible to the 
human mind. But the objection is made. If the point has neither length, breadth, nor thickness, it is 
nothing; and how can something come from nothing? to which Euclid might answer: If we seek the 
origin of geometry, we must go beyond geometry; and since human thought cannot envisage the 
existence of anything save in terms of three dimensions, therefore the origin of geometry must be 
above the comprehension of human thought. In other words, reason can see that it is but not what it 
is. 

So Swedenborg defines the beginning of creation as pure and total motion in the Infinite, that is, a 
motion without any finite thing being moved--a motion which can be conceived of rationally but not 
geometrically. (Principia I, ii. s. 12) Now, of course, such a motion is beyond our comprehension. Yet 
human reason can see that it is, even though it cannot see what it is, Moreover, reason can see that 
creation commences with the Divine Will, and that this Will goes forth or proceeds as creative 
motion, that is to say, as Divine Truth. So all human creation begins with will, and this will flows 
into the body as creative motion. In the Principia, Swedenborg shows that the first natural point or 
creative motion pervades the universe and continually sustains the universe, so that should it cease, 
the created universe would at once cease to be. 

By the doctrine of the Principia, we can see more clearly the teaching of the Writings concerning the 
Divine Proceeding, and the teaching that existence is perpetual subsistence.  

The teaching of the Principia so fully agrees with the more general teaching of the Writings 
concerning creation that there can be hardly a doubt that by it Swedenborg's mind was prepared to 
receive the spiritual truths concerning creation in his understanding.  

([Some] New Churchmen have thought that the statement in Divine Providence n. 6, which 
condemns those who hold that the first substance is likened to a point which is of no dimension, 
and that the forms of extension existed from an infinitude of such points and the statement in True 
Christian Religion n. 20, condemning the doctrine of the origin of substance from forms, and 
geometrical lines which are of no dimension; constitute a condemnation of the whole doctrine of 
the Principia; but in this they fail to see the difference between the geometrical point of Euclid and 
the first natural point. What is condemned are the monads of Wolff. The first natural point is the 

  
 
 
 
 
proceeding of the Infinite; it is the creative motion of the Divine Love, and contains within itself all 
that will subsequently be created.) 

It has also been held that the repudiation of the Principia doctrine is involved in Swedenborg's 
statement in True Christian Religion n. 76, that he had long meditated concerning creation but in 
vain until he knew that there were two worlds and two suns. This would seem to mean nothing 
more than that without revelation the Principia doctrine would be a mere hypothesis; for it may be 
noted that heaven was opened to Swedenborg in 1744, and it was later in the same year that he 
wrote in his work on the Senses, n. 262:  

"According to an admonition of the night, I ought to betake myself to my philosophical Principia ... 
and it was said that then it would be given me to fly wheresoever I will. Moreover, six months after 
he had received his commission as revelator, in April 1745, he wrote in his "History of Creation" n. 
10, that he was amazed at the agreement of his doctrine of creation and the Mosaic account. 

The "Opera Mineralia" brought Swedenborg high renown. It received long and highly flattering 
reviews in the learned journals of Europe, and on the basis of it, Swedenborg was invited by the 
Royal Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg to enter into correspondence with that body.  

The first volume, the "Principia", was a philosophical inquiry into the mode in which the mineral 
kingdom was created by the Infinite. It was indeed intended as the introduction to a long series of 
works on the various minerals, but Swedenborg's underlying reason for writing it was his desire to 
search into the soul and its commerce with the body. This is indicated by the fact that, while the 
"Opera Mineralia" was being printed, Swedenborg wrote his "Forerunner of a Reasoning 
Philosophy concerning the Infinite and the final cause of Creation", in which he treats at length of 
the Mechanism of the Operation of Soul and Body. He was inspired to the writing of this work by 
the desire to search into the ultimate and spiritual causes underlying the phenomena of nature. He 
wished to show that the soul was not an aerial something but was a real substance; that it was the 
means by which God willed to form a heaven from the human race; and that its connection with the 
body was a real organic connection. 

It was with this in mind that Swedenborg developed his Principia doctrine of the atmospheres - one 
universal atmosphere above the sun of the natural world, and three atmospheres below that sun, 
two of which embodied the supreme atmosphere.  

New Churchmen are so accustomed to the doctrine of three atmospheres that they are apt not to 
reflect on the fact that this doctrine is entirely alien to the scientific world, both of Swedenborg's 
day and of our own. But Swedenborg saw that nothing can be transmitted through a vacuum; that, if 
the ear hears, there must be an atmosphere to carry the sound waves to its organ; that if the eye can 
see a bell swinging in a receptacle exhausted of air, while the ear cannot hear the ringing of the bell, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
there must be a superior atmosphere conveying light waves to the eye; that the corporeal life 
conveyed to the animal soul must be transmitted by the mechanism of a still superior natural 
atmosphere, and that the spiritual life conveyed to the human soul came through a supreme 
atmosphere above the sun of the natural world. 

That in the Principia, Swedenborg had in mind his search of the soul is clearly indicated by a 
statement which he makes in "The Five Senses", (No. 267) written in 1744 when his spiritual eyes 
were opened. He there says:  

"These [the doctrines of order, forms, and influx] are given in my Philosophical Principia where the 
forms of the parts of each atmosphere are set forth and delineated. This was done for the present 
purpose." 

Now comes the application. And a little earlier in the same volume (No. 262) he writes:  

"It is to be observed that according to an admonition of the night, I ought to go back to my 
Philosophical Principia ... and it was said that then it would be granted me to fly whithersoever I 
would." 

Swedenborg soon realized that for the study of the soul it would be necessary to have a thorough 
knowledge of the body in which she dwells. For this purpose, he spent eighteen months (1736-
1738) in an anatomical school in Paris, where he took up the work of dissection, particularly of 
animals living both on land and in the water, in order to study the relation of the brain to the lungs. 

It was at the beginning of these studies (1736) that Swedenborg began to have significant dreams, 
and these continued until he received his commission in 1745. Moreover, he began to learn the 
signification of these dreams, (see "The Word Explained", n. 1894), and was thus initiated into the 
doctrine of correspondences; we find his first references to that doctrine  in the "Economy of the 
Animal Kingdom I", nos. 625-6, 648-9, which was finished in December 1739. (See 3 Documents 
Concerning Swedenborg, 924). (See also Psychological Transactions pp. 195 seq., where are given 
all Swedenborg's references in his philosophical works to the doctrine of correspondences). 

Moreover, while writing the "Economy", Swedenborg experienced a remarkable enlightenment, 
which must be connected with that interior breathing to which I have previously alluded; for in that 
work, in n. 19, when speaking of true philosophers, he writes:  

"As soon as they light upon the truth, after a long course of reasoning, straightway there is a certain 
cheering light and joyful flash which brings confirmation, and which bathes the sphere of their 
mind. There is also a certain mysterious radiation--I know not whence it springs--that darts 
through some sacred temple of the brain. Thus a kind of rational instinct displays itself and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indicates, as it were, that at that moment the soul has relapsed, as it were, into the golden age of her 
infancy." 

Clearly these words indicate a more interior opening of Swedenborg's understanding preparatory 
to the opening of his spiritual eyes to see the phenomena of the spiritual world. Without such 
interior opening, the seeing of those phenomena would have been of little use.  

While volume I of the Economy was being printed, Swedenborg jotted down some notes in which he 
applies his Principia theory to the souls of men, animals, and insects. At the end of these Notes he 
wrote:  

"These things are true because I have the sign."  

What this sign was, we do not know, but from later statements made by Swedenborg, there can be 
little doubt but that it consisted in the seeing of lights and flames with the eyes of his spirit. In other 
words, Swedenborg's thought was so interior that he not only felt himself enlightened but actually 
saw spiritual light with his spiritual eyes. 

It is not surprising, therefore, that when writing the second volume of his Economy of the Animal 
Kingdom which he now commenced, Swedenborg is led by his deep thought to see that there is a 
spiritual sun. "As the [natural] sun is the fountain of life (he writes in "Economy of the Animal 
Kingdom" II, n. 255), so the Deity is the Sun of life and of all wisdom."  

But he adds,  

"I confess, however, that while lingering on this threshold, which conducts me almost beyond the 
bounds of nature, I feel a holy tremor stealing over me and warning me to pause; for the mind 
thinks it sees what it does not see, and sees where no intuition can penetrate. And what increases 
this awe is a love of truth which, that it may hold in my mind the supreme place is the end of all my 
endeavors. This alone I perceive, that the order of nature exists for the sake of ends which flow 
through universal nature to return to the first end; and that worshippers of nature are insane." 
("Economy of the Animal Kingdom II", n. 259). 

In the Economy, moreover, Swedenborg brought out and elaborated the doctrine of degrees, a 
doctrine without which (he says, in EAK I, n. 632, and II, n. 210) there can be no entering into the 
inner secrets of nature. The doctrine was entirely unknown to the learned world, and the 
contemporary reviews of Swedenborg's work show that the reviewers had little comprehension of 
it. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Swedenborg doubtless had this in mind when, many years later, he wrote in the Divine Love and 
Wisdom: I do not know whether anything has hitherto been known about discrete degrees, and yet 
without this knowledge nothing of causes can be known (n. 188). Nothing concerning this doctrine 
was known in the learned world; but the doctrine was not only known to Swedenborg but it formed 
the key to his penetration into new regions of truth; and when his spiritual eyes were opened, 
enabled him to understand the relation between the spiritual world and the natural. 

In the same work he speaks in a similar way concerning knowledge of the Spiritual Sun. That there 
is a sun other than the natural sun has hitherto been unknown, because man's spiritual has so 
greatly passed over into his natural that he does not know what the spiritual is, nor, consequently, 
that there is a spiritual world in which are spirits and angels, different from the natural world. See 
Divine Lover and Wisdom, n. 85.  

On his return to Stockholm in 1740, Swedenborg wrote his work on "The Fibre". Here he 
demonstrated that man has three discretely different foods: the food which he eats three times a 
day, the food he imbibes through the nostrils, and an ethereal food that goes to the finest parts of 
the brain, the organic seat of the will and understanding. He saw that during his life on earth, man 
forms his character. He saw also that man's character must have an actual basis in that which is of 
time and space. In other words, our character consists in the order and arrangement of the parts of 
the organic seat of the mind, just as the character of a pianists hands consists in the order and 
arrangement of the fibers of that hand. 

Swedenborg saw that if the character of a man is an organic form, that form must be nourished by 
foods which shall fix and maintain it; just as in the case of the pianist's hand. The hand must be 
formed by practice, but the form can be made firm only by nourishing food. Swedenborg recognized 
that the building up and fixation of the organic vessel of the mind required a food finer than the 
food of the body.  

While man has the power of forming his mind in freedom after the pattern of the Word of God, or 
after the pattern of the Prince of the world, nature, by means of this finer or ethereal food, fixes and 
hardens the form. Therefore, as we become older, we find in our own experience how difficult it is 
to change our character, although it can always be changed so long as we live on earth. 

Here we have the basis for the later teaching of the Writings, that the blood of an evil man receives 
different nourishment than the blood of a good man, (in DLW 420 seq.) and of the teaching 
concerning the limbus - those finest things of nature which man retains after death, as the organic 
basis of his character. 

Swedenborg then wrote that very remarkable work, the "Rational Psychology". I have read works 
on psychology, and I understand that now on the radio you are receiving lectures, or have received 

 
 
 
 
 
 
lectures, on that subject; but my experience is that the psychology as now taught is almost purely 
empirical, purely experimental. Modern psychology knows nothing of the mind of man, of what the 
will and understanding are, or what the memory. It even raises the question as to whether man has 
a soul.  

But Swedenborg began by seeing that man has a soul, and he labored to investigate the operation of 
that soul in the body. He saw, for instance, what we can readily acknowledge, that man has two 
minds; but, instead of regarding those minds as abstract qualities, he shows that they must each be 
organized forms. We all know that we can look down on our own lusts, and can condemn them and 
fight against them. The organ that looks down and the organ that is fought are both organic. But 
what does modern psychology know of this? I am now engaged in translating Swedenborg's work 
on "Rational Psychology", and the more I enter into its contents, the more I am amazed at the 
wonderful insight of the man who wrote it, an insight which reveals truths that the mind at once 
acknowledges; but the mind wonders at the genius of the man who laid them bare. 

In his "Rational Psychology", Swedenborg has much to say concerning the life of the soul after the 
death of the body. He shows that heaven consists of many societies, and that the angels of heaven 
are all engaged in the performance of uses. He conjectures that after death the soul will not have the 
form of the human body. The organs of the terrestrial body are adapted to earthly uses, and when 
the use ceases, the necessity of the organs will also cease. (See "New Philosophy", Jan., 1948, pp. 
138-39).  

But, he says, in conclusion: When we ourselves live as souls, we shall perhaps laugh at ourselves at 
having conjectured so childishly (Rational Psychology n. 524). 

This is not an expression of doubt as to the truth of his conjecture. Swedenborg was fully convinced 
of its truth; nor did he laugh at it when his spiritual eyes were fully opened; on the contrary, he 
confirmed it. But he realized that it was a conjecture--a conjecture based on sound philosophical 
principles, but still a conjecture awaiting the confirmation of experience. His attitude is expressed 
in what he had written two years earlier in the preface to his Economy of the Animal Kingdom:  

"True philosophers (he says), the more profoundly they penetrate, the less do they confide in their 
imaginative faculty. In the absence of experience, they fear to extend the claim of their reason 
beyond the nearest link, and should they extend it somewhat further, then, so long as experience is 
lacking, they class their conclusions as among hypotheses." (EAK n. 19). 

The like can be said of his theory of creation as set forth in his Principia. It was a theory, and he 
himself confessed that it lacked the confirmation of experience.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, when his spiritual eyes were opened, he said to some angels who asked for his thoughts 
on creation, I have long meditated concerning creation but in vain. But after I was admitted by the 
Lord into your world, I perceived that it was vain to make any conclusion respecting the creation of 
the universe unless it first be known that there are two worlds and two suns (TCR 75). Swedenborg 
did know that there are two worlds and two suns, and it was on this knowledge that he based his 
theory in the Principia. That theory was an hypothesis, yet Swedenborg found that it was in 
agreement with the truth as given in Divine Love and Wisdom. (See "History of Creation", nos. 9, 
10). 

After the "Rational Psychology", Swedenborg devoted himself to an extensive work on the Brain 
and the Nerves. How necessary this study was for his preparation is shown in a passage from "The 
Word Explained":  

"In the brain, the idea of all things is so clearly evident that he who beholds its interior Parts knows 
therefrom the nature of the universe itself with its sidereal systems; and also how heaven operates, 
besides many other things which will be in the kingdom of the Messiah. But these knowledges 
cannot be clearly deduced because so many parts of the brain, nay, the uses of almost all of them, 
are unknown. Unless, therefore, these be first evolved, the things which are brought forward will 
appear obscure; and yet, in themselves, they are so clear to those who understand these things that 
in the brain such persons almost behold heaven in an image, and thus the nature of the state of the 
heavenly kingdom." (The Word Explained n. 1071). 

Do not be surprised at this; for the brain is the scene where all our thoughts, all our loves and 
affections have their play, and, with a good man, those thoughts and loves and affections are an 
image of heaven. The brain itself is then an image of the Divine Love and Wisdom in its inner aspect, 
just as the body is an ultimate image of God. Swedenborg understood to a remarkable degree the 
uses of the brain, and this knowledge enabled him in after years to behold in that organ, heaven in 
an image. 

In his work on "The Brain", Swedenborg has revealed so many things that are new that anatomists 
skilled in the science have held up their hands in amazement and wondered how it was possible for 
him to arrive at conclusions which modern anatomists have arrived at only within the past few 
years--how it was possible for Swedenborg to arrive at these conclusions when the material at his 
hand was comparatively scanty.  

Swedenborg was the first to demonstrate that the grey matter of the brain is the seat of the mind; 
the first to demonstrate that the mid-brain has charge of all habitual action, and this to the end that 
we may perform these actions, may walk and talk and use our muscles, and yet leave the rational 
brain free to think. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
These discoveries are comparatively superficial, and they are now universally recognized. But his 
doctrine of discrete degrees as shown in the Brain, his doctrine of the relation between the soul and 
the body--these are not recognized in the world. There is indeed recognition of some of his 
remarkable discoveries, but the process of thought by which he made those discoveries, the 
principles on which they are based - these are not acknowledged. They are not even considered, 
because they cannot be demonstrated experimentally. 

Following the Brain, Swedenborg took up the Animal Kingdom, a work in which he investigates the 
ultimate organs of the human body. Commencing with the mouth, he takes up the organs of the 
alimentary system, and then, commencing with the nostrils, the organs of the respiratory system.  

We have Swedenborg's own statement that, during the writing of this work, lights appeared to him 
almost every day, and that this was to him a confirmation of the truth of what he was writing. Now 
do not be amazed at this statement. We ourselves sometimes say "A light dawned upon me", or "I 
saw the thing in a new or clearer light". Actually the spirit does see the thing in clear light. 
Swedenborg's thought was so abstract, so deep, that when a light appeared to him that gave him 
illumination, he sometimes actually saw it as a light, and it was in fact a light. When you and I say "A 
light dawns upon us", if our eyes were opened to see in the spiritual world, we would find a light 
had actually dawned upon us. 
Swedenborg saw light, both in the sense that the eyes of his spirit were opened to see spiritual 
truths, and in the sense that there was also a beginning of the opening of his sight to see the 
phenomena of the spiritual world; and this seeing confirmed him in the truth of what he was 
writing. 

Listen to his own words, in "The Word Explained" nos. 6904-5, written in 1747, three or four years 
after writing the Animal Kingdom:  

"What is well pleasing is confirmed by a flame which is a sign of confirmation from love. By the 
divine mercy of God Messiah, such a flame appeared to me so often and indeed in different sizes 
with a diversity of color and splendor that, during some months when I was writing a certain work 
[the Animal Kingdom], hardly a day passed in which a flame did not appear as vividly as the flame 
of a household hearth. It was then a sign of approval, and this was Prior to the time when spirits 
began to speak with me viva voce." 

These experiences did indeed give Swedenborg confirmation and assurance, but at the time he did 
not fully perceive their significance. Listen further to his words on this subject, in Eperientiae 
Spiritualis, n. 2951, written in August 1748:  

"For many years previous to the time when my mind was opened so that I could speak with spirits, 
such proof existed with me that I now wonder that I had not then come into persuasion concerning 

 
 
 
 
 
 
the Lords government by means of spirits. Not only were there dreams for some years, informing 
me concerning the things that were being written, but there were also changes of state while I was 
writing; an extraordinary light on the things that were being written. Later there were also many 
visions when my eyes were closed and a light miraculously given; fiery lights were seen, speeches 
in the time of morning, etc., until a spirit addressed me in a few words." 

But Swedenborg also had times when doubts came to his mind. In fact, there can be no rational 
mind that has not experienced doubts. But to doubt is to investigate, and to investigate with a 
sincere mind, with the acknowledgment of God and the acknowledgment of the soul, is the means 
by which man can arrive at truth. Swedenborg had doubts about things stated in the Word; he 
wondered about the miracles wrought by Pharaoh's magicians; and also about other matters. 

But when he thought interiorly from principles, the doubts were removed, even if the questions 
were not settled; see "Journal of Dreams" 50). So with us; we may have doubts, but if we think, not 
from the doubts, but from principles that are clear to us, then, even if the doubts are not settled, 
they are removed from troubling the mind. 

Here are Swedenborg's own words on this subject:  

"Whenever I have desired to consult the understanding in those things which are heavenly, I 
seemed to myself to fall backward ... and unless, by the divine mercy of God Messiah, I had been at 
once returned to the way, I would quickly have fallen backward." "The Word Explained" n. 2973.  

Then a little later, in "The Word Explained" n. 8212, he wrote:  

"When the sciences and things of the memory which are exceedingly limited wished to carry 
themselves into things spiritual, and to build these up, as it were, I at once fell into doubts, and 
unless by His infinite mercy these doubts had been taken away by God Messiah, I would have fallen 
headlong into the most dense darkness and into doubts and denials." 

The secret of Swedenborg's success was that he thought from the truth. He approached nature from 
the acknowledgement of God. He did not do, what so many now are inclined to do, investigate as to 
whether there is a God, or whether there is a soul. He saw clearly in rational light that God does 
exist, and that the whole of nature is a witness to the Divine Love and Wisdom. He saw at once, 
without doubt, without argument, that man has a rational soul, and that this soul is the dwelling-
place of God. It was from the acknowledgement of God that he investigated nature; from the 
acknowledgement of the soul that he investigated the body; and it was this acknowledgement that 
led him to see those marvelous things at which some present-day scientists wonder, and those still 
more marvelous doctrines of which modern learning knows nothing.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Listen to Swedenborg's own testimony in 1747, in "The Word Explained", n. 5266:  Take whatever 
you will in the kingdoms of the earth, the terrestrial, vegetable, and animal; take whatsoever you 
will in man; and, considering them rightly, you will be contemplating the kingdom of God. I confess 
that I have considered them in great number, and have not as yet been able to meet with a single 
one that does not look to the kingdom of God Messiah and to that conjugial love which exists 
between the Messiah and the Church. 

The last of Swedenborg's purely philosophical writings was the uncompleted work on "The 
Worship and Love of God", Parts 1 and 2 of which were published a few weeks prior to April 1745 
when Swedenborg received his commission as Revelator. In this work he concentrates all the 
principles set forth in his former writings, to present in a universal way the whole of nature as the 
Kingdom of God. It is to this work that he undoubtedly refers when he writes four years later:  

"When contemplating all things in the universe which it was granted me to run through, in order 
that I might reduce them to one supreme universal into which they should one and all concentrate, 
and so to which they should refer themselves, there was found nothing whatever that did not look 
to the kingdom of God Messiah, and refer itself thereto." In "The Word Explained" n. 5783.  

Swedenborg worked by the analytical method. He began by adducing the facts, and followed this by 
his inductions. But no analytical thought is possible without synthetic thought. You hear men say 
they examine facts impartially, but such a thing is impossible. No man can examine impartially. 
Every man will examine in the light of the principles that are in his mind. Thus all analytical thought 
is accompanied by something of the synthetic. Swedenborg thought analytically. He would not come 
to a conclusion apart from the testimony of facts, but his conclusions were all guided by the 
acknowledgment of God, the spiritual world, the soul. 

And this leads me to consider the nature of Swedenborg's inspiration. The soul flows into the body. 
With a little infant there are no planes which pervert this influx, and we see the presence of the soul 
in the body as something delightful, something beautiful, something heavenly. But soon the child 
begins to form a plane in the mind, and the life of the soul flowing into this plane is manifested as 
the love of self, and the child begins to lose its first innocence.  

Further planes may be formed in the mind by confirmation in the denial of God, and by a life of evil. 
Then the soul flows through these planes as through chinks and crannies, and reveals itself in the 
faculties of liberty and rationality; but otherwise the man is nothing but a beast, with his bestiality 
covered over by a fair external. 

With Swedenborg, planes of truth were formed in his mind, and we have the evidence of his life, 
that he shunned evils as sins against God. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Swedenborg was an ambitious man; he wished for the glory of the world. He could not but know 
that he had a genius superior to that of most men. He wished to be one of the leading lights of 
Europe, and he recognized the evil within the wish. He recognized that, while his work might be of 
service to mankind, he himself was in danger of being consumed by the love of self. He was tempted 
to exalt himself above others. 

On one occasion, in 1744, he saw a book in a booksellers window which was not the book that he 
had just published; and the first thought that came to his mind was that his book was more worthy 
of being displayed. But that thought was immediately followed by a sense of humiliation and the 
reflection that the Lord had many means of teaching men. 

This incident gives us a clue to the better understanding of what Swedenborg so often says in his 
scientific works, namely, that no man can be a true philosopher unless he shuns the fires of the love 
of self. We can understand the temptations that Swedenborg went through; how he conquered the 
love of self, and how it was this conquering that enabled him to be a great philosopher. 

Here we have revealed to us the nature of Swedenborg's inspiration. It was not dictation. In the 
course of his life he had shunned the fires of the love of self. By his philosophy based on the worship 
and love of God, he had formed more and more interior planes in his mind for the perceptive 
reception of the soul--planes to which the inflowing soul could give perception and inspiration. 
Swedenborg experienced more and more of this inspiration, even during the years of his 
preparation. He is clearly speaking from his own experience when, as I have already mentioned, he 
speaks of a certain cheering light and joyful flash which brings confirmation and bathes the sphere 
of their mind, and of a mysterious radiation, I know not whence it springs, that darts through some 
sacred temple of the brain, and which brings a rational instinct, indicating that the soul has relapsed 
into the golden age of her infancy.  

When Swedenborg's preparation was completed; when he had formed his mind, not only by a true 
philosophy but by the study of the phenomena of the spiritual world; the planes of that mind were 
formed for the full reception of the soul, and he was inspired from within. Listen to what is said on 
this subject in the Arcana Caelestia n. 5121:  

"Divine Revelation is made either by angels through whom the Lord speaks, or by perception. The 
former is external revelation such as was given through the Prophets; the latter is an internal 
revelation which affects the intellectual principle spiritually, and perceptibly leads it to think of a 
subject as it really is, with an internal assent, one knows not whence. One thinks that it is within 
him and flows from the connection of things, but it is a dictate from the Lord flowing through 
heaven into the interiors of the thought." 

 
 
 
 
 
 
The Writings were not dictated to Swedenborg. The Lord did not dictate to him as He dictated to 
the Prophets of the Old Testament. The revealed truths did not come to him in the form of words 
and sentences. They came to him in the form of inspiration from within.  

The nature of Swedenborg's inspiration was perception - perception such as it was in the Golden 
Age when men, undefiled by the evils of the proprium, perceived the presence of God in the 
kingdom of nature. Swedenborg wrote the words of our Revelation as of himself, but he wrote from 
Divine inspiration. That inspiration, however, differed from the inspiration of the men of the Golden 
Age, in that the perception of spiritual and celestial truths which he had from inspiration could 
clothe itself with corresponding philosophical, rational, and scientific truths. 

The theology of the Christian world today is constantly retreating before the assaults of science; 
and when it has retreated to a safe distance, it finds it must still further retreat because it cannot 
meet the assaults of ever advancing science. But in the Revelation now given, we have a theology 
clothed with rational truth, a theology to which science must bow; a theology of which it can justly 
be said, that by it it is now permitted intellectually to enter into the mysteries of faith. 

 
 
