
=== Notes for Parents

In the book of Revelation, chapter 21, we read how an angel was sent to John to show him the holy city. The angel had a golden reed to measure the city and found its length, breadth, and height to be equal, and its measurement is said to be "according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel." People have always recognized the holy city in Revelation, like the Holy Land in the Old Testament, as a symbol of heaven. Heaven is possible for each one of us not only after we die but within our hearts and minds while we live here. There is a potential angel within each one of us whose measure is the measure of heaven. Our task in this world is to try to "measure up" to our spiritual possibilities.

Yet each one of us is different from every other. Each of us is born with certain inherited abilities and certain inherited limitations. Our Holy Land, like the land of Canaan which Joshua set out to conquer, is full of enemies trying to check our spiritual progress. The story of the Gibeonites is a picture of how the Lord takes into account our weaknesses and enables us to recognize and make use of them, if we try. Like Joshua with the Gibeonites we are sometimes deceived about our natural tendencies, thinking some of them to be friends which are really enemies. So we accept them as part of our character just as Joshua made a league with the Gibeonites.

Take, for example, the love of "knowing other people's business" which we all have to some extent. This seems to us often to be a desire which, being born in us — coming, like the Gibeonites from the far country of our ancestry — should be accepted as a proper faculty without question. We do not at first see it as a possible enemy. When we do realize that it is a weakness to be dealt with, the Lord will, if we ask His help, show us how to put it in its place, making it serve our heavenly purpose of being of use to our neighbors. We all know the difference between watching and studying others in a critical spirit or from idle curiosity and doing the same thing from a desire to find out their needs and see how we may help them.

The Lord knows the measure of the angel in each one of us; and if we look to Him with willingness to acknowledge our weaknesses, He will help us to grow day by day closer to our true heavenly stature.

