
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Here also the best discussion material is in the nature and mission of the New Church, although some of the younger and newer members may need to be given a clear understanding of how judgment takes place.

---
The middle chapters in the book of Revelation are a symbolic description of what happens in the church and in individual lives when the seals which have closed the inner meaning of the Word are opened one by one, bringing deeper and deeper truths to bear in the examination of the state of the church and of the individual heart. In this process the conflict between good and evil — between the forces of the Lord and the powers of the hells — increases, and the devastation becomes more and more extensive. If we are really examining ourselves in the light of the Word, we must go the whole way; we cannot take just the instruction we are willing to obey and ignore the rest.

The more one learns of the internal meaning of the Word, the more deeply it searches the mind and heart. It holds up high standards of spiritual thought and life, often diametrically opposed to common precept and practice. It never allows us to rest satisfied with ourselves, because when one temptation is overcome, a deeper one is always revealed to us. This is what is pictured by the fact that with the opening of each seal the devastation increased.

But the whole scene of conflict in the Apocalypse leads to final victory. Self-satisfaction is the badge of spiritual failure. Only those evils which we see and struggle against are overcome; the rest remain in us and limit our uses to eternity. We admire a person who wants to "die in harness." We cannot always succeed in this desire in our material occupations; physical age and weakness may prevent. But the soul does not grow old and weak with the body; it passes — if we are regenerating - "from strength to strength." We should wish to die in spiritual harness, to fight to the end against the evils and falsities within us, and against evil and falsity in the world. So long as the Lord permits us to remain in this world, we may be sure that there is still something for us to do in the way of spiritual progress, and we shall find the way to that something if we continue to read and study the opened Word, which will lead us daily to new conflicts, new victories, and fuller life.

But there can be no reservations, no halfhearted allegiance. The forces which oppose the work of the opened Word in the church and in us are pictured as the dragon — "that old serpent" who tempted Eve in the garden — and the beast, selfish and sensual desires in the heart and false ideas in the mind. These must be recognized and rejected little by little, day by day to the very end of life. The book of Revelation is given to show us these forces in their true aspect.

The last verses of the twentieth chapter sum up in brief and simple form the final judgment. Many people over the centuries have taken them literally, expecting to remain in their graves until some final day and then to be raised up and brought before a throne on which the Lord would be seated to judge them. And they have thought of the books as a record kept in heaven of all their acts, which would then be opened and read out. The Writings give us a very different understanding of this scene. There is no need for anyone else to keep a record of our acts. We keep that record ourselves. For everything we do or think or feel affects us and goes into the formation of our character, and everything we choose freely, of good or evil, is written on our hearts. The character which we ourselves have formed by our free choices from day to day in this world is our "book" which will be opened when we pass into the spiritual world, not in any single judgment scene, but gradually, as we put off the external considerations which have restrained us in this world from giving full expression to what we really feel and think.

We shall judge ourselves by choosing in perfect freedom the kind of life which we have formed in our inner selves. Read Revelation 13:8, 3:4-5, and 2:17. We know that in the Word the name of anything always signifies its quality. Our names will be found written in the book of life if our inmost quality is found to be in accord with the divine truth of the Word. In that case our sphere will be the sphere of heaven where all live in love to the Lord and in mutual love for each other and no one wishes to exalt himself or to be served. If we are not so written in the book of life, if our final quality proves to be centered in self, our chosen sphere will be the sphere of hell, where all burn with the desire to exalt themselves and to be served by others. This is the "lake of fire."

We are all very familiar with chapters 21 and 22. The book of Revelation has well been called "the charter of the New Church." The formation of the new heaven and new earth and the descent of the holy city, New Jerusalem, are described as immediately following the opening of the books and the final judgment. The first verse of Genesis declares, "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." The ultimate result of this creation, desired and foreseen by the Lord from the beginning, is "a new heaven and a new earth." All the history of man as a race and as an individual lies between. In Revelation 21:6 we read, "And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end." In @TCR 791, at the end of the section on the New Heaven and the New Church, we read: "After this work was finished the Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages, according to the prediction in Daniel (7:13, 14) and in the Apocalypse (9:15) ... This took place on the nineteenth day of June, 1770." This is the only specific date so mentioned in the Writings and we have every reason to observe June 19 as "New Church Day."

In @AR 879 we read: "And I John saw the holy city New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, signifies the New Church to be established by the Lord at the end of the former church, which will be consociated with the New Heaven in Divine truths as to doctrine and as to life." This should make us think very seriously about the basis of our New Church organization and its mission in the world. The new heaven is established in the spiritual world. It is the only Christian heaven there is and it is the eventual home of all the good — whatever their religion may have been in this world — but all the good people are not by virtue of their goodness members of the Lord's New Church on earth, because the New Church on earth must be "consociated with the New Heaven in Divine truths as to doctrine and as to life." Without good of life there is no church, but without true doctrine also there is no New Church.

The Lord said to His disciples (John 15:16): "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you." He says the same to us in this new age. Is this an excuse for self-exaltation? Peter denied the Lord. Judas betrayed Him. Any one of us may and frequently does do the same. We deny and betray Him when we turn our backs on the truths which He has entrusted to us for the world's enlightenment — the Gospel He has given us to preach — and by all our failures to live these truths. "I have chosen you," He says, "and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain."

