
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the reading throughout will furnish plenty of material for the lesson. The Second Coming of the Lord should be identified with the opening of the seals, and the descent of the holy city with the beginning of the New Church.

---
The last book in the Bible, the book of Revelation, is, as we have seen, a prophecy of what would happen to the first Christian Church which the apostles founded. Evils and false ideas crept into it very soon. The greater part of the book is a symbol picture of the conflict that went on between good and evil and between truth and falsity, and the destruction which evil and falsity brought about in men's souls. A revelation means literally an unveiling. In this world we can to some extent veil or cover up the bad things that are in us by putting on a pleasant exterior. But when we come into the other world, our real character comes to view. And we make our character here. We cannot change it after we die.

In our lesson for today we are given a symbol picture of what finally happened in the other world when the Lord made His Second Coming two hundred years ago. All the people, good and bad, from the Christian Church had been living together in the other world much as they had lived in this world, waiting for the final judgment, which could not take place until the Lord had opened the Word. This is because it is the divine truth within the Word with which our characters have to be compared before good and evil can properly be separated. You can see how this is if you stop to think that a person can keep all the commandments in their literal meaning and yet not be a good person. For example, one may never actually kill anyone, but all the time one may want to murder but be held back only by fear of the law. The Lord, when He was in the world, showed men enough of this inner meaning of the commandments so that they could, if they wanted to, see and fight against their real evils. Read Matthew 5:21-22.

The character which we form for ourselves while we are in this world is the book which we take with us into the spiritual world. We are writing this book today and every day. If day by day we choose to try to do right — to learn and do what the Lord wants us to do — our book when it is opened in the other world will read like the book of life, the book which was in the hand of Him who sat on the throne in John's vision. This is what is meant by being found written in the book of life. In other places it is said that one's name is written in the book of life. In the Word a "name" means the quality of a person or thing. If, instead of this, we have chosen to go through life trying to get our own way, and merely putting on an orderly outward life because we could see that that would be more to our own advantage, then our names will not be found written in the book of life. The lake of fire into which the evil were cast in John's vision is a picture of hell, where people because they care only for themselves are constantly "burned up" with jealousy, covetousness, revenge, and hatred. Whenever you are tempted to say about something someone else has done, "That burns me up," stop and look into your heart and see if it is not really love of yourself and of having your own way that is the real fire you are feeling.

In chapter 21, the first heaven and the first earth refer to the state of life in which the Christians in the spiritual world were before the Second Coming and their final judgment. The new heaven and the new earth are the true Christian heaven which was formed of the good after the judgment; the heaven is their inner state and the earth their outer state.

Then we come to John's vision of the holy city, New Jerusalem, descending from God out of heaven. A city in the Word is the symbol of doctrine. Doctrine is another word for teaching, and a city pictures the system of teaching which one has accepted and in which he lives. The city of Jerusalem always pictures the church as to its doctrine. So the New Jerusalem is the church which has a new doctrine in which it lives. It is the New Church, and that is why the true name of the New Church is the Church of the New Jerusalem. Revelation 20:3, 4 tell us the great blessings which the Lord can give to those who really choose to live in this new city of doctrine. We may know who God really is, our Lord Jesus Christ, and know that He is always present with us and caring for us. And, although we have the same problems and difficulties and disappointments and bereavements which others have, they will not make us doubtful or afraid or unhappy, because we shall understand them and why they are permitted to come to us. The Lord gives us the water of life freely, divine truth which leads to heaven. To be sons of God means to be regenerated or born again, by overcoming the selfish and evil tendencies which we inherit from our human ancestry and cultivating the unselfish love for the Lord and the neighbor which is our inheritance from our heavenly Father.

