
=== Junior

A brief review including some account of the nature of chapters 6-19 so that the judgment may be seen as a deeper and deeper examination of our motives and thoughts will be of use. The importance of going to the Word for our principles and of making the choice of good day by day should be stressed.

---
What did John see in the right hand of Him who sat on the throne?

What is this book?

With how many seals was it sealed?

By whom is it said the book would be opened?

Why is the Lord called the Lion?

Why is He called the Lamb?

John saw the setting for a great prophecy of judgment. This is followed by the story of how the seals of the book were opened one after another. As each seal was opened, something strange happened, and more and more terrible things took place until with the opening of the seventh seal great wars and destructions began. This is a picture of what happens when we really begin to look
deep into our hearts to see whether or not we love the Lord and the neighbor as the Word says we should.

Did you ever sit down and try to think just what made you do a particular thing? Let's take some good thing you did. Suppose you gave one of your friends something of yours which he liked. Offhand you would say you did it to make him happy. But were you really thinking of his happiness or of how he would thank you and admire you for your generosity and of how your mother would praise you when you told her about it? If such thoughts were in the back of your mind, there was really selfishness in your heart all the time.

We know that when we go into the other world, we shall no longer be able to hide our inmost thoughts and feelings. So now is the time for us to hunt out our selfishness and get rid of it. But this means a real struggle against temptation. It is this struggle which is pictured by the wars in the book of Revelation. Our natural selfishness is always trying to destroy the good in us and the Lord and the angels are fighting to destroy our selfishness.

In the first part of our lesson for today — the end of chapter 20 - the final judgment is pictured, the time when we go into the spiritual world and see ourselves as we are, as just what we have made of ourselves in our life here.

What does John see again?

Who are standing before the throne?

How were the dead judged?

What happened to those who were not found "written in the book of life"?

It is not hard to understand that the book of life is the same book which has played so great a part in John's whole vision, the Word of God. And the other books are the books of our lives — our characters — which we have been forming day by day in this world. Those who are not found written in the book of life are those who have let themselves grow more and more selfish instead of trying to form their characters according to the teachings of the Word.

The "lake of fire" is a symbol picture like all the others. Are we happy when we are angry, or when we are hating someone, or when we are jealous, or when we are wanting something that belongs to someone else? These selfish loves are like fire burning inside us destroying all the happiness we might be having. The lake of fire is this burning of selfish desires which prevents the evil from ever being happy.

But those who have tried to learn and do the Lord's will and to overcome their selfishness have a very different future ahead of them. Chapters 21 and 22 tell about this future. We are studying today only the first few verses of chapter 21. The new heaven and new earth which John saw are an entirely new state of happiness in our hearts and minds and in our outward lives. Do you remember the first verse of the first chapter of the Bible? That tells us that the Lord made us with both a higher and a lower nature, and now we find that if we are good, in heaven we shall still have a higher and a lower nature, but both will be made new. Heaven is a place where everyone loves the Lord and the neighbor and no one is thinking of himself. So everyone is always happy inside and out.

What did John see coming down from God out of heaven?

What was the name of this city?

Our church takes this name because it stands for a new knowledge of what our lives ought to be, a knowledge which the Lord made available when He opened the Word and enabled Emanuel Swedenborg to write down for us truths which had been hidden within its letter. You have learned some of these deeper truths already, and you will learn more and more as you grow older. And if you continue to try to live according to all you learn, when you go into the other world you will be able to live in heaven, which is pictured by entering the holy city. Read Revelation 21:27 and also Revelation 22:14.

In Revelation 21:6 what does the Lord call Himself?

What does He promise to give to him that is athirst?

Alpha and omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet; so the Lord is saying that He is the beginning of everything and also the end or object toward which everything in creation looks. Do you remember the fourth blessing? If not, look up Matthew 5:6. Then look up John 4:13-14. The water of life is truth from the Lord. The Lord gives us this truth freely in His Word, and everyone who really thirsts for it will find all he needs there.

Read Revelation 21:7 and look up Matthew 25:34 and John 1:12 and 3:3. We know that we inherit many things from our parents and through them from our forefathers. Sometimes when you do something from this inheritance, you may hear someone say:

"He's his father's own son." But the Lord is our heavenly Father. And the whole object of our life in this world is to overcome the many bad tendencies which we inherit from our earthly ancestors and to form our characters into the image and likeness of God; that is, to try to be as much like our heavenly Father as possible. This is to become regenerate, which means reborn, and so to become true sons of God.

