
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The verses from each of the two chapters present a vivid picture which will appeal to the children. The emphasis should be on the books they are writing every day. The details of both parts of the vision should be impressed, and the reason why the creation of the new heaven immediately follows the judgment.

---
The apostle John had a wonderful vision of heaven. He saw the Lord — the same Lord Jesus whom he knew and loved — sitting on a throne with everyone bowing down before Him and singing praises to Him. And he saw in the Lord's right hand the book, which we know as the Word of God, sealed with seven seals. And he was promised that the Lord would open the Word. This vision of John's is described for us in the last book of the Bible, which is called the book of Revelation.

In the chapters which follow, the seals were opened one after another.

As each one was opened, something new happened, each time more strange and terrible.

This is a picture of the judgment, in which deeper and deeper faults in our characters are searched out so that they may be destroyed.

At the beginning of our lesson for today, John again saw the great throne. Whom did he see standing before God?

The books which were opened were the lives of the people which they had lived while they were on earth.

The other book, the book of life, was the Word.

The people were judged to see how well they had learned and obeyed the laws which the Word teaches.

You are writing the book of your life every day, because everything you think and feel and do becomes part of you, and someday — just as in John's vision — this book will be opened to see what you have written there and whether or not it agrees with the good and true things that are written in the Word of God. So you see that what you write in your book is very important.

It is very important for us to learn and do what the Lord wants us to do. This is what we come to Sunday school to learn.

In chapter 21 what does John see coming down from God out of heaven? Our church is named for this city.

It is a picture of heavenly character, and therefore of heaven itself. How does the Lord assure us that we shall be happy there?

