
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This lesson furnishes one of our best opportunities for discussing with young people the New Church, its basis and mission, and what our privilege and responsibilities as New Churchmen are.

---
The Bible begins with the words "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." And in our lesson for today we find that the first verse of the next to the last chapter in the Bible (Revelation 21:1) says, "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away." The Word in its letter is a tremendous drama treating of the life of man from his first creation through his spiritual decline until, with the coming of the Lord, his progress in self-destruction was checked and his course again turned toward heaven; and the book of Revelation in prophecy completes his course to the final separation of the good and the evil in the last judgment and the establishment of permanent Christian heavens through which divine truth can always flow to men on earth.

In the first few verses which we have for our lesson today the judgment takes place and in the rest of our lesson the new heaven and earth are established and from them a new church descends to the earth of this world. You perhaps remember from the account of creation that heaven and earth represent the internal and the external of man and that in the beginning they were both empty and dark, just as every person is born with both heavenly and earthly possibilities but with no knowledge or understanding. The new heavens and the new earth represent the fulfillment of the high possibilities of man both internal and external.

The simple picture of judgment is symbolic like all the rest of the book of Revelation. Swedenborg makes it clear that when we enter the spiritual world, we shall not find ourselves standing before a throne on which the Lord sits to judge us; neither will the Lord arbitrarily condemn us to hell or invite us into heaven. The throne, as we have already seen, is a symbol of judgment; the book of life is the Word; and the books that are opened are our inner characters, which we have been forming by our choices of good or evil day by day throughout our lives in this world. To have one's name written in the book of life is to find that one's inner character is in accordance with the teachings of the Word; that is, that one's ruling motives are love to the Lord and to the neighbor. This is the very sphere of heaven. If, when we enter the other world we are not in love to the Lord and the neighbor, we shall not choose to live in that sphere. Our judgment there is executed by our own free choice, as we gradually put off whatever disguises we may have been wearing to cover our real feelings and thoughts in this world, and show ourselves as we really are. The lake of fire mentioned in Revelation 20:14-15 is indeed hell, but it is a symbolic picture of the company of all those who burn with hatred against everyone who does not serve them. The ruling love which makes hell is the love of self.

We know that the name of our church is the Church of the New Jerusalem, and that this name is taken from Revelation 21:2. A city always represents doctrine. Everyone lives in some city of doctrine, some system of thought and principle. The things he believes are the walls which limit his action and which shut out those he considers his enemies. If the things he believes are false, he is cut off from much that he might do and enjoy, and those who are shut out are those who would actually be his best friends. But if the things he believes are divine truth, he is prevented only from doing harmful things and he is protected from all his spiritual enemies. The city of Jerusalem throughout the Word is the symbol of the church as to doctrine, and the New Jerusalem is the church based on the new doctrine revealed to men by the Lord when He made His Second Coming in the opening of the Word. In @TCR 791, at the end of the chapter on the New Heaven and the New Church, Swedenborg says: "After this work was finished the Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns ... This took place on the nineteenth day of June, 1770." So we call June 19 "New Church Day." What the Lord gave to men in His Second Coming is described in the remaining verses of our lesson. The opened Word helps us to see that the Lord Jesus Christ glorified is indeed the one God of heaven and earth, "the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end." It makes us realize that He is present with us and caring for us all the time. It removes all our doubts and fears and makes our griefs and disappointments easy to bear. The opened Word is to us "the fountain of the water of life" from which the Lord satisfies all our thirst for truth.

