
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The whole subject of regeneration is presented in this lesson. We should note especially that it is no haphazard process accomplished in us by the Lord without constant cooperation on our part. It is the achievement of a well-ordered inner as well as outward life.

---
We have studied in Joshua 6 through 9 the three principal stories concerning Joshua's first campaign, which gave him control of the central part of the Holy Land: the conquest of Jericho, the conquest of Ai, and the treaty with the Gibeonites.

The conquest of the rest of the land was divided into two campaigns, the first in the south and the second in the north. In general the south represents states of affection and the north intellectual states, and these two campaigns thus represent the effort to recognize and overcome evils and falsities in our hearts and minds. We sometimes use the terms evil and falsity without stopping to think just what they mean. An example may help us here. Take dishonesty in business, for instance. The evil involved is the love of selfish gain; the falsity is the excuse we make for doing what we know to be wrong — as, for example, that our first duty is to take care of ourselves, that everyone does such things, that it is impossible to survive in the business world without such practices. The evil is the underlying desire; the falsity, the thoughts and reasonings which excuse and support it. Our hearts and minds are full of these evils and falsities, as the Holy Land was full of hostile peoples, and they band together against our efforts at regeneration, one evil drawing others to support it, and many falsities bearing each other up, so that in fighting against one we must fight against many. These are the general campaigns, first against the five kings in the south, the league of evil desires; and then against the kings of the north, the host of false ideas and reasonings. The campaign in the south comes first. We must recognize and overcome the underlying evil before we are prepared to see the true nature of the excuses we have been making and discard them. In the southern campaign the Lord sent hailstones against the enemy and also gave the Israelites light to pursue them into complete rout. Our evils are conquered not so much by our own efforts as by the power of the Lord's truth$ and by the clear light of the Word. "Thou searchest the reins and the heart." In the northern campaign, the use of horses and chariots is noteworthy, as the affection for our own intellectual powers and the systems of thought through which we have made these powers effective. The Lord promised Joshua that they should "hough [hamstring] their horses and burn their chariots with fire"; our admiration for our own wisdom can be broken, and love will destroy the false ideas on which we have acted.

[*In this case it is turned into something coldly destructive by our negative attitudes. The truth hurts when we are evil. -Editor]

After these first campaigns the Israelites were masters of the Holy Land and ready to settle in their homes there. This does not mean that they had conquered all their enemies. The Lord permits us to begin to enjoy spiritual living while we have still many battles to fight. We never come to the end of our spiritual battles while we are in this world; yet we can know a measure of heavenly joy and peace even while here. The tabernacle was set up at Shiloh, the name of which means "peace." The Holy Land is always spoken of as the "inheritance" of the tribes. This is because they received it as a gift from the Lord. A place in the heavens, which means a heavenly character, is the inheritance of each one of us who will recognize the Lord as his Heavenly Father and try to do His will. And as each one of us is born with different qualities and gifts from those of any other, his place is a specific one, the place where he alone can serve, which no other could possibly fill, his particular inheritance. "Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world." (Matthew 25:34)

The twelve sons of Jacob represent the various good affections which make up a complete person. Each of these affections has its proper place in the perfect life; people governed by each of these affections have their proper place in the Grand Man. So the division of the Holy Land by lot among the tribes pictures the well—rounded spiritual life, and also the well—rounded spiritual society, in which good men and women of all types and gifts have their proper place and work together harmoniously in the Lord's service. And we should notice that the fundamental choice of place is not ours but the Lord's, for the casting of lots always pictures the acknowledgment that the decision is in the Lord's hands.

The tribes of Reuben, Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh were permitted to settle east of the Jordan, after they had helped their brothers conquer the Holy Land. The cross—Jordan country represents the plane of natural living. It was a fertile land and good for cattle; that is, the plane of natural living is meant for the carrying out of the good affections for useful service of an external kind. Many people love such service who do not care to think very deeply. They are at home in useful, kindly, external living. Such people, if they are willing to recognize the necessity of the deeper things of worship and doctrine and to make due effort to examine themselves and to conquer selfishness and its supporting excuses, are permitted to spend their lives for the most part in the land of external service. They do not attain very deep or high states, but they are useful and happy. Part of the Lord's ministry was in this cross-Jordan country. It is interesting to note that the two tribes who asked for an inheritance in this country were Reuben, who represents the first faith of the natural man, and Gad, who represents good works of an external kind, and that half the tribe of Manasseh was assigned a lot to the north of them, although there is no record that Manasseh had asked for this assignment.$ Manasseh, the older son of Joseph, represents the good of the church; so we may understand that his being placed as a bulwark to the north of Reuben and Gad indicates that those who settle in the natural plane need to have their thinking guarded by the recognition that good comes from the Lord and not from themselves.

[*While this is correct (see Numbers 32:33, where the original assignment is recorded), one could, of course, infer that a request was made by the Manassites even though such request was not recorded in the letter. -Editor]

We should note also that the Levites received no particular part of the land as their inheritance. They were to be responsible for the worship and spiritual instruction of the people, as well as to carry on the service of the tabernacle. It is said of them that "the Lord God of Israel was their inheritance." Among the tribes, the Levites represent the element of worship. They are those affections in us which look directly to the Lord and find their satisfaction in learning of Him and meditating upon Him and in the spirit and act of prayer and praise. This is their inheritance. They have no one place in the well—ordered life, but pervade the whole. There is no part of our lives where there should not be "cities of the Levites," systems of thinking which relate that part to the Lord and His service. All parts of our lives should minister to this spirit of worship, as the tithes of all the people supported the Levites. We should not go to church on Sunday and forget the Lord the rest of the week. We should not have one place in our minds for religion and a separate compartment for everyday life. We should not read the Word each morning and refuse to test our conduct by it. "Take heed to thyself that thou forsake not the Levite as long as thou livest upon the earth." (Deuteronomy 12:19)

