
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The meaning of regeneration should be stressed — the fact that it involves the rooting out of evil and falsity from our hearts and minds. Speak of the fixing of the commandments and service of the Lord as the center of our life — the tabernacle at Shiloh — and then as an outline follow the specific correspondences given at the end of the Intermediate notes.

---
Joshua conquered the Holy Land in three campaigns. The first gave him control of the center of the land. This campaign, described in chapters 6 through 9, includes the stories of the fall of Jericho and Ai and the league with the Gibeonites, which we have studied earlier. The second gave him control of all the southern part of the land and is told in chapter 10. The third, described in chapter 11, gave him all the northern part; and in chapter 12 we are reminded that Moses had conquered the country east of the Jordan. Chapter 13 tells us the boundaries of the two and a half tribes which had chosen this cross-Jordan country for their inheritance. Then in chapters 14 through 17 we are told of the settlement of the tribe of Judah in the southern part of the land, Caleb being given the city of Hebron, the home of Abraham, and of the assignment of the very center of the land to the tribes of Joseph — Ephraim and the other half of Manasseh.

The conquest in the north completed the task assigned to Joshua. Israel was now master of the whole land, although only the people who had actively resisted Joshua had been destroyed. Joshua 11:13 and 11:22 tell us that the cities "that stood still in their strength" were not destroyed, and that a few of the giants also were still left. These picture the falsities and evils within us which lie dormant during our early efforts at regeneration, to rise up later when we think the conquest is over.

Joshua's final work was the setting up of the tabernacle at Shiloh, where it remained for more than three hundred years — Shiloh means "peace" — and the division of the previously unassigned land among the remaining tribes. The rest of chapter 18 and chapter 19 describe the boundaries of the various tribes. We remember that the twelve tribes represent all our abilities and powers. The order in which the twelve sons of Jacob — or Israel — were born is the order in which these abilities and powers develop, beginning with the simple general ones we use in childhood, then followed by the faculties which enable us to take our places in the world, and finally by the higher spiritual faculties pictured by Jacob's two youngest sons, Joseph and Benjamin. In the distribution of the tribes in the Holy Land we find the oldest sons, Reuben, Simeon, and Judah are all in the south, which is the will part of our nature. (Levi, of course, is scattered throughout the land because he represents worship.) The next six sons are in the north, the thought part of us. And in the center of the land, where the higher land is and where the tabernacle is set up, are the tribe of Benjamin and the tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh, the sons of Joseph. On the map Dan is also near the center, but on the seacoast; later this tribe spread to the far north. This is because Dan represents the ability to judge, and specifically the acknowledgment of the truths of revelation which is necessary before any correct judgment can be formed and truth can enter the mind and will; so Dan is rightly a boundary tribe. Thus the map of the Holy Land becomes a wonderful picture of the way in which our various abilities, faculties, and powers are meant to be arranged in order to make up a heavenly character.*

Chapter 21 tells of the forty-eight cities with their pasture lands which were given to the Levites. Worship of the Lord must be within everything we think, feel, and do.

Chapter 22 tells us how Joshua dismissed with his blessing the two and a half tribes which had been given homes east of the Jordan, since they had now fully kept their promise to help their brethren conquer the land. Like Lot they had chosen to live in the fertile plain rather than in the mountains, and they picture that part of us which is most concerned with activities and enjoyments of the world. Joshua charged them solemnly to be faithful to the worship of the Lord if they wished to prosper. To keep this in remembrance they set up an altar near the Jordan, not for worship and sacrifice but as a witness of their promise. The Lord wants us to enjoy the good things of this world and its activities but always to make them serve the higher goals of our spiritual life. When the Lord prayed for His disciples, He said, "I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil." This should always be our guide in deciding what occupations we choose, how we conduct them, and what pleasures we may enjoy.

[*There is a map showing the correspondences of the twelve tribes on page 80 of Hugo Odhner's The Divine Allegory (New York: Swedenborg Foundation, 1954). -Editor]

