
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Map study is indicated for this class, as well as the reading of the Bible references in its notes. This will help the children develop a background for many of the Bible stories, as well as fixing names of persons and places in their memories.

---
From the camp at Gilgal, Joshua led the fighting men out to the conquest of the land. The conquest was carried out in three campaigns, the first in the central part of the land, the second in the south, and the third in the north. These three campaigns are described in chapters 6 to 11 of the book of Joshua, which are stirring chapters to read. Chapter 12 reminds us that Moses had conquered Sihon king of the Amorites and Og king of Bashan, the two great kings on the west side of the Jordan. This whole effort, which took about seven years, gave the Israelites the mastery of the land and enabled them to divide it and settle in their homes, but there were still many cities which had not been taken, and most of the people in the land never ceased to be enemies.

Caleb had been promised by Moses — at the command of the Lord (Deuteronomy 1:36) - that he should have a certain place in the land for himself. Read Joshua 14:6-15 and 15:13-14 to see how this promise was kept.

Whose home had Hebron been?

Joshua also was given a city of his own in the allotment of Ephraim (Joshua 19:49-50). And before the final division described in our chapter for today, five of the tribes had been taken care of. The tribes of Reuben and Gad had asked for and received land in the south and center of the cross—Jordan country, and half of the tribe of Manasseh had been given land north of them. The other half of the tribe of Manasseh and the tribe of Ephraim — you remember Joseph's two sons were to be heads of tribes — had the center of the Holy Land proper, and Judah had already been given all the land south of them.

How did Joshua have the rest of the land divided?

How did they decide which property each tribe should have?

When lots are cast, who really decides the choice?

Now look at a map of the Holy Land as divided among the tribes.

You will see that the southern part of the land went to the tribes of Simeon and Judah; the central part to the descendants of Joseph, to Benjamin, and to Dan; and the northern part to the other tribes. In chapter 19:47 we learn that Dan found its lot too small and went up to the north of the others and conquered more territory, taking the city of Leshem, elsewhere called Laish, and changing its name to Dan. This made Dan the northernmost city of the Holy Land, as Beersheba was the southernmost, and from this comes the expression "from Dan to Beersheba," meaning everywhere. In Joshua 19:9 we find that the inheritance of Simeon was taken out of the portion of Judah because it was found that too much land had been given to Judah. From this point on in the Bible story there is little mention of the tribe of Simeon.

Why did the tribe of Levi have no separate area?

In chapters 20 and 21 we are told of the establishment of six cities of refuge and forty-eight Levitical cities. The first fifteen verses of the thirty-fifth chapter of Numbers explain why these cities were commanded.

Now the tabernacle was moved from Gilgal, where it had been during the conquest, and set up at Shiloh. Shiloh means "peace." Find Shiloh on the map. You see it is near the center of the land. The tabernacle remained here for three hundred years. Worship was conducted in it, and the people came to it for the three great feasts of the Jewish year.

