
=== Primary

The setting up of the tabernacle at Shiloh can be made the principal part of the lesson, and the children should learn the name Shiloh and what it means. They should learn what casting lots means, that the Lord governed the choice, and also where the various tribes settled, including the tribe of Levi.

From the camp at Gilgal, Joshua led the fighting men out to conquer the whole land of Canaan. It took them more than twenty years during the life of Joshua, and even then they never wholly overcame their enemies.

But after seven years they had gained enough control so that they could divide the land and settle in their homes.

Where did they set up the tabernacle?

Shiloh means "peace."

The tabernacle remained at Shiloh for three hundred years.

Do you remember what the tabernacle was? It was the tent for worship which was made at Mount Sinai according to the Lord's directions. The ark — the gold—covered chest in which they kept the two tables of stone on which the Lord had written the commandments — was always placed in the inner chamber or Holy of Holies of the tabernacle, just as we always keep a copy of the Word on the altar in our church.

The tabernacle had been carried by the Levites along with the children of Israel wherever they went throughout their wilderness journey. The Levites, you remember, were set apart to have charge of everything pertaining to the worship of the people. They set up the tabernacle in the midst of every camping place. But after the land was conquered, they did not have to take it down any more, but could have a permanent place for it.

How did the Israelites mark out the divisions of the land?

Where had the tribes of Judah and of Joseph been given lots?

In verse 5 "on the north" means north of the tribe of Judah, not the northern part of the land.

You remember that Joseph had become two tribes — Ephraim and Manasseh.

The Levites did not have any separate area, but they were given forty-eight cities, four in the land of each of the twelve tribes, so that they could teach the people how to worship the Lord and could receive the sacrifices and offerings which had been commanded all through the year. But the Passover and the other two great feasts which were celebrated once a year were centered at the tabernacle in Shiloh.

Where had Reuben and Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh been given their lots?

How was it determined which lot each of the remaining seven tribes was to have?

When lots are cast, it is the Lord who really makes the choice. Two men were given special inheritances.

Joshua was given a city called Timnath-serah in the lot of Ephraim. Caleb was given Hebron.

What do you remember about Hebron?

