
=== Senior

The meaning of the twelve tribes and the reason for their particular allotments in the Holy Land is the general lesson, but stress the fact that we never succeed in conquering all our inner foes and that we need constantly to watch and to study so that we may recognize and resist them.

The taking of Jericho and Ai and the treaty with the Gibeonites were the beginning of the conquest and gave Joshua control of the central part of the land. The "divide and conquer" principle thus has a scriptural basis, for with the center of the land in his hands, Joshua was able to proceed to gain mastery over the rest in two campaigns, the first in the south and the second in the north. In all these stories of conquest we find an element of miracle. Joshua and the Israelites were not allowed to forget that it was the Lord who gave them the victory. The conquest under Joshua is a picture of the process of regeneration in its earlier states, when we are in an ardent and enthusiastic state and willing to attack our faults boldly.

Then comes our lesson for today. The land is conquered. The enemies in heart and mind have been recognized and brought into a state of subjection. But we should notice that although some have been altogether destroyed, others have merely been driven back into their cities. Nevertheless a time of temporary peace comes when we take stock of ourselves and make orderly plans for future accomplishment. The tribes are ready to take their allotted places and to settle down, each man under his own vine and fig tree (Micah 4:4).

First the tabernacle is set up in Shiloh ("peace") in the center of the land. We can see that this is as it should be. The two and a half tribes who chose the cross—Jordan country are allowed to go and take possession of it. Caleb, who with Joshua long before had trusted the Lord and urged the people to go forward and conquer the land in spite of its seeming strength, and who was at that time promised a special inheritance, is given Hebron, the former home of Abraham. The Levites are assigned their forty-eight cities throughout the land, so that there may be worship and remembrance of the Lord everywhere. And the land is divided by lot among the rest of the tribes.

This is a picture of an orderly life, each faculty in its proper place and serving the Lord in its appointed way. The highest faculties, the spiritual, are in the center. Joseph and Benjamin, Jacob's last—born sons, represent these faculties, which develop later in our lives than the so—called "practical" faculties. The tribes of Simeon and Judah are in the south, the affectional part of our life, where our childhood states — Hebron, the home of Abraham — persist. The other tribes, concerned with our intellectual life, are in the north. In the cross—Jordan country also, in the plane of our outer activities, all three types of faculty are needed.

The place of Dan in the Holy Land is interesting. He was given an inheritance along the seacoast near the center of the land, but finding it too "straight" or confined for him later went up and conquered territory north of all the other tribes. Dan was the son of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid, the first indirect fruit of the spiritual love pictured by Rachel. Dan means "judging." Swedenborg tells us that he represents the affirmation or acknowledgment that we should believe in God and live a good life. And he says, "affirmation and also acknowledgment is the first general principle with the man who is being regenerated, but it is the last with the man who has been regenerated." This is the reason why Dan moved from the central seacoast to the northernmost border of the land.

There were still conquests to be made. Joshua commanded each tribe to continue the conquest in its own territory and to keep in subjection the enemies already overcome. We need this injunction.

One of our most subtle temptations is to become self-satisfied and think we have no more to do. We shall find in the book of Judges a picture of the results of such a mistake.

