
=== Adult

The meaning of Joseph's imprisonment in Egypt and of the dreams of the butler and baker should be discussed in their application to our own states of temptations in the present materialistic age. The teacher will find excellent discussion material in @AC 5077-5078.

The stories of Joseph are among the best—loved in the Bible.

This is partly, no doubt, because of their variety and dramatic qualities, and partly because our sense of justice is satisfied by the triumph of right in spite of scheming and persecution. We know, however, that the real power in them comes from the fact that they picture states through which the Lord passed during His life on earth, and states through which we all pass in our youth, as well as repeatedly throughout our lives as we feel the temptation to stifle our spiritual promptings in the face of the pressure of our worldly environment.

We recall that Joseph was the eleventh son of Jacob and the first son of Rachel, the last of Jacob's sons to be born in Haran before they returned to the Holy Land. Jacob and his sons represent development of the church on the natural or external plane. His two wives, Leah and Rachel, represent affection for exterior truth and affection for interior truth. Jacob loved Rachel first but was given Leah instead, and he had six sons by Leah before he had any by Rachel; and, although Jacob at first was angry at Laban's deception, we find (Genesis 30:2) that after he had had four sons by Leah, he was angry with Rachel because she complained of her childlessness. So the natural man catches a first vision of a higher spiritual state, but readily settles down into satisfaction with external accomplishment. The sons of Jacob represent the gradual development of orderly living on the natural plane until, with Joseph, there is a beginning of true spiritual feeling, which is followed by the birth of Benjamin — its complementary truth — after the return to the Holy Land. Benjamin was born near Bethlehem and Rachel died at his birth. Jacob settled down with Leah and eventually they were both buried in the cave of Machpelah with Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah. This would indicate that Jacob's glimpse of something higher than the external order did not take very deep root in his life, and that Leah was actually his true wife. Nevertheless, Joseph remained his favorite son. Do we not see this illustrated in the case of many people who live orderly external lives? The external life satisfies them and they do not really wish to think more deeply: yet they like to remind themselves of a higher possibility within them which they recognized in their youth.

The representation of Joseph is described by Swedenborg in several phrasings: "the Lord's spiritual kingdom," "the spiritual man," "the celestial spiritual man," "the charity from which is faith, or the good from which is truth." In the Lord's life Joseph represents the "Divine Spiritual." In our lives we can perhaps best think of him as our inner desire to be good in the Lord's sight rather than just in the sight of our neighbors. Joseph is the "dreamer" who was disliked by his brothers because his dreams showed that he was their superior. We really know that this higher urge is the true ruler of our lives, but we rebel against the thought. Joseph also had the power to interpret dreams. That inner voice which brings the Lord before our minds is able to point out the true meaning of life and all its experiences. The Lord sees to it that each of us has his "Joseph," and that it is preserved no matter how hard we try to stifle or even destroy it. And if we come to the realization of our need, as Jacob and his sons did in the time of famine, we are enabled by the Lord to dig down into our memories and find our "Joseph" not only still alive but in a position to save and protect us.

Our lesson today finds Joseph a slave in Egypt. Egypt, we remember, is the land of memory-knowledge. How often we relegate our Joseph to the land of memory-knowledge! Joseph was first sold to Potiphar, captain of the guard of Pharaoh. Because the Lord was with Joseph, under him Potiphar's affairs prospered and Potiphar advanced Joseph to charge over his household. The very fact that we have deep within us the recognition of our duty to the Lord serves to bring a type of order into our external lives, even though we do not understand the source of our outward success. But Potiphar's wife, who represents the affection which belongs to natural truth, is not satisfied. She wants to own Joseph. We see this temptation in the effort of the natural mind to explain away spiritual causes and to reduce everything in life to the level of the finite human rationality. Joseph resists and leaves the house, but his garment is left in the hand of Potiphar's wife and she uses it as evidence against Joseph. Garments represent outmost truths; Joseph's garment — like the Lord's nearly two thousand years later — represents "the ultimate of spiritual truth," the letter of the Word. Think how at times the letter of the Word is used to discredit religion! So Potiphar puts Joseph in prison. We put Joseph further and further out of sight.

Still, Joseph cannot be kept down. In prison he rises to be given charge of all the other prisoners. When we are bent on leading worldly lives, we keep many things in ourselves in prison: some good things because they would bring to our minds truths which would rebuke and correct us, and some evil things because they would lead us to acts which would lower our reputation in the world. The chief butler of Pharaoh and his chief baker represent these two kinds of prisoner. We are familiar with the thought that in the Holy Supper the wine represents truth and the bread good. In the butler's dream he is performing his proper office, pouring the wine into the cup of his master. But in the baker's dream the bread which he is carrying to his master is being stolen from his basket by the birds of the air.

Swedenborg says (@AC 5077-5078) that the butler represents the external sensual which is subject to the intellectual part of the internal man, and the baker represents the external sensual which is subject to the voluntary part of the internal man. This is why the chief butler was restored to his place and the chief baker was hanged. Our intellectual capacity often is able and willing to receive memory—knowledges of truth, but at the same time reject knowledges of good because we did not want to live according to them. In short, we often are eager to learn things but unwilling to put them into practice. Even in the letter there is a difference between the butler and the baker. When they told Joseph that they had been troubled by their dreams and Joseph said, "Do not interpretations belong to God? tell me them, I pray you," the butler had no hesitation in telling his dream immediately. But it is said of the baker, "When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good," he proceeded to tell his own dream to Joseph. That is, the butler was willing to submit himself to the Lord's judgment, but the baker waited to see if the judgment was likely to be favorable to him. Still another indication is found in Swedenborg's translation of Genesis 40:16. The King James Version says the baker had "three white baskets" on his head, and the Revised Standard Version says "three cake baskets." The latter version gives no indication of any other possible translation, but the center column in the Oxford teacher's edition (King James) gives as an alternate translation, "baskets full of holes." [Two recent versions, the New American Bible and the Anchor Bible, have "three wicker baskets."] Swedenborg says "three baskets with holes in them" [canistra perforata], and explains the verse as meaning that the baskets represent the planes of the mind and their having holes in them means that the "interiors were without termination anywhere in the middle." Read here @AC 5145. Compare this with Haggai's rebuke to those who returned from exile (Haggai 1:4-6).

