
=== Adult

You may be surprised to find that some of the class know nothing of Lot except that Lot's wife was turned into a pillar of salt. This incident has proved so striking and controversial that it is important to see it as one of the last results of Lot's original choice, and so get it into its proper proportion to the rest of the story. As to the incident itself, there is no more reason to doubt it than to doubt any other miracle in the Scriptures. If the class is bent upon discussing it, be sure they realize that it is logically inconsistent to accept the Lord's miracles in the New Testament and refuse to accept the miracles in the Old Testament, just as it is logically inconsistent to accept the visions of Isaiah, Ezekiel, and Paul and refuse to accept Swedenborg's visions.

We have seen that the people of the Ancient Church — the Silver Age — were led by truth. Their great interest was in learning truths, and they had access to the knowledge of the Most Ancient people, which had been preserved and handed down to them. Thus they knew correspondence of the things of nature with spiritual things, and this study was their greatest delight. From our own little knowledge of correspondences we can imagine what wide variety of interest this study must have had, and we can see how, as Swedenborg tells us (@AC 1285), the people of that time could have developed a wide variety of forms of worship, depending upon their particular interests and points of view. Yet as long as they were in charity, that is, as long as they worshiped from love to the Lord and the neighbor, they were in perfect harmony as to doctrine. This is what is meant in the story of the Tower of Babel by their being "of one language and of one speech." When people are working with a common interest and without thought of self, they easily understand one another. They "speak the same language," and variety in knowledge and point of view adds to the harmony of their efforts. But again the love of self crept in, and the Ancient Church came to its end and its people were literally as well as spiritually scattered over the face of the earth. Most of the pagan religions in the world are perversions of beliefs handed down by tradition from the scattered remnants of the Ancient Church.

Up to this point our lessons have been on the portion of the Word copied by Moses from the Ancient Word, and we have not been dealing with historical fact in the letter. Swedenborg tells us (@AC 1140, 1343) that the first person mentioned in the Word who is a historical personage as well as a representative figure is Eber (Genesis 11:14), from whom the Hebrews took their name. He tells us (@AC 1343) that Eber constituted a second Ancient Church, which came to an end in idolatrous worship in Terah, the father of Abram, and that Abram signifies a third Ancient Church (@AC 1360), from or in which the Lord instituted the Jewish Church. The second Ancient Church, like the first, recognized spiritual things and knew that its forms of worship had their value from their correspondence. It was in this church that sacrifices were instituted. [See, however, Genesis 8:20.] But as it degenerated, the knowledge of the spiritual meaning of the various acts of worship was lost, until they came to regard their images and sacrifices as holy in themselves and became idolaters, knowing nothing of love for the Lord and the neighbor or of heaven and eternal life. So the Lord and the angels could no longer be present with men in their interiors, because they no longer had any internal thought. There could no longer be any real church on earth, because all real worship is internal. Still the Lord had to keep His contact with men to keep them alive and to save those whose intentions were good, and He instituted the Jewish Church, which was not a real church at all, but only the representative of a church. It is said of the Jewish priests who "offer gifts according to the law" that they "serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things" (Hebrews 8:5). The Hebrew nation was chosen by the Lord for this purpose, not because they were a peculiarly religious people but because they were a wholly external people and could be led, through hope of reward and fear of punishment, to carry on worship of Jehovah according to the particular forms which would correspondentially represent true worship and so — through correspondence — keep the connection between earth and heaven which could no longer be maintained through the minds and hearts of men. Their history could be directed by the Lord so that it could be recorded in words which, by correspondence, would express heavenly things and the divine life itself.

The fundamental principle of the Jewish Church was recognition of the necessity of obeying the commands of God. Abram lived in Ur of Chaldea, and he and his people were idolaters; but apparently he above others was inclined to absolute obedience. When he was called by the Lord to leave his country and his father's people and take the long journey to Canaan, he obeyed. And throughout the story he obeyed unhesitatingly when the Lord spoke to him. He represents in us the beginning of the development of spiritual life. This beginning — when we are very little children — lies in obedience, first to our parents and then to the precepts of right conduct which have been taught us.

Abram did not leave Ur alone. He took with him his wife Sarai, his father Terah, his brother Nahor, his nephew Lot — whose father had died in Ur — their families, and all their servants, cattle, and possessions. We start our journey of life just where we are by heredity, and must take with us all our qualities, all our abilities, and all our weaknesses. Abram's father died before he reached the land of Canaan, and his brother Nahor and his family stopped halfway and settled in Haran (also called the city of Nahor). There are in us tendencies which, while not evil, are "simple." We say we have "outgrown" them. Yet they remain in our background and we go back to them from time to time for renewal of our early simple faith. These are represented by Nahor. But Lot went all the way with Abram.

Each plane of our minds has its internal and its external. Abram pictures the internal man in its early state, and Lot the external or sensuous man. We are all perfectly familiar in our own experience with the struggle between higher and lower motives and principles. Lot chose to live in the low but inviting valley of present satisfaction, and Abram dwelt in the mountains of the Lord's promise.

In the fertile valley of the Jordan, Lot's choice, were the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah. Lot went to live near Sodom. Because of this he was captured and carried away when the four kings from the Tigris—Euphrates valley came over to make war on the five kings of the Jordan valley. This pictures our early temptation to do as others do. At first the childhood habit of obedience, like Abram, is near enough to be aroused and strong enough to go after us and bring us back to a good state. But temptations increase. In chapter 19 we find Lot living in the very gate of Sodom when it was about to be destroyed for its wickedness. We are familiar with the story of the angels who came to Lot to lead him out of Sodom. Even then, we recall, Lot refused to go to the mountain and chose to live in the little city of Zoar, and the Lord permitted him to make his choice. Lot was saved, but his two sons, Moab and Ammon, born to him after this escape, fathered the Moabites and Ammonites, who represent the evils and falsities that result when men live in the externals or worship without the internals. They were enemies of Israel for generations. All Lot's troubles began when his herdsmen quarreled with Abram's herdsmen, at which time he separated from Abram and went to live in the valley.

And what of Lot's wife who disobeyed the command of the angels and looked back toward Sodom? To look back or turn back means to recede from good once we have seen and undertaken it. When we make up our minds to do the right thing, we should go forward with it steadily and not dally with thoughts of the pleasures of the course from which we have turned. Salt in a good sense represents the affection of truth or the desire to live according to the truth. When this is lost, the salt has lost its savor. It was an old custom, coming from a knowledge of this correspondence, to sow a conquered city with salt. We should be able to learn from past experience not to "look back." The pillar of salt into which Lot's wife was turned stands as a perpetual warning. The Lord Himself said, "Remember Lot's wife."

