
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Trace in general outline the correspondence of the story of Abram's journey through his return from Egypt. Then take up the correspondence of Abram and Lot with reference to our individual lives, and follow through with Lot's choice and its consequences.

---
Just as selfishness crept into the Most Ancient Church and gradually destroyed it, so pride in their own intelligence and knowledge crept into the Ancient Church. Gradually people forgot what the correspondences they had learned really meant; they came to worship as idols the images of animals and birds and fish which originally they had made to remind them of spiritual things. In this way many conflicting beliefs arose, and people quarreled and became enemies, and had to move away from each other. Recorded history begins with this state of the world, and therefore people imagine that men, to start with, were idol—worshipers and savages. The story of the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1-9) pictures this final breaking up of the Ancient Church.

But the Lord had promised that people would never again be allowed to separate themselves completely from Him and so destroy themselves. As before, He was able to find a few people whose intentions remained good, even though they were also idol—worshipers. Abram and his family were such people.

From chapter 12 of Genesis on, the Bible story is in general - and in most of its particulars — true history as well as inspired parable with a spiritual meaning within the letter. Abram was a man who was willing to obey the Lord in all things, and he was chosen to be the father of the next church, the Jewish Church. This was not a celestial church like the Most Ancient, or a spiritual church like the Ancient, but a church on the natural plane of life only. Obedience to the letter of the law was its requirement. When we have passed out of our babyhood — but are still very little children — all we know about right and wrong is that we must obey our parents. Abram pictures this stage in our life. This — obedience — is the beginning of the development of a heavenly character. If we do not learn to obey, we cannot be heavenly people. But there must be continual progress. Abram was called to leave his home, Ur of Chaldea, and go to the land of Canaan, which came to be called the "Holy Land," and which represents heaven or a heavenly character. So we are called by the Lord to leave our natural selfish inclinations and fit ourselves to live in heaven.

Abram's journey is described in Genesis 12:1-10. He stopped for a time at Haran, and his brother Nahor stayed there. Then Abram went on into the Holy Land, and stopped first at Shechem and then at Bethel, building an altar in each place. Then because of a famine, he went to Egypt where he became very rich. All through the Bible the land of Egypt pictures the part of our minds in which we store up facts — Swedenborg calls them "memory-knowledges." At every step of our progress, material as well as spiritual, we find that we need more knowledge before we can go on. The gaining of this knowledge is pictured by going down into Egypt; and we shall find that many people in the Bible went down into Egypt at some point in their lives. Coming back to the Holy Land is trying to use our new knowledge in the service of the Lord.

Our story for today teaches us a very important lesson. Lot was Abram's own nephew. He had spent all his early life traveling to the Holy Land under Abram's protection, and had gone down into Egypt with him and had come back rich. Yet Lot's descendants, the Moabites and the Ammonites, were to become bitter enemies of Abram's descendants, the Israelites. The first germ of this enmity developed in the story we are studying now.

There is something in us which, like Abram, is ready to accept whatever state of life the Lord gives us and to use all the learning we acquire in His service. That is why Abram came back from Egypt rich not only in cattle (affections for useful deeds on the natural plane), but also in silver and gold (truth and goodness). But there is also in us something which, like Lot, is not at first bad, but which loves the easy and pleasant places of life. Lot also had herds and flocks, but it is not said that he had silver and gold. Lot is good and safe so long as he remains with Abram, but when the herdsmen of the two (which picture particular objectives — spiritual with Abram and worldly with Lot) began to quarrel, a separation had to be made. Lot chose to live in the valley of the Jordan because it looked fertile and pleasant. The valley represents the lower plane of our lives, the plane of sense enjoyment. The valley in itself was not evil, nor is sense enjoyment evil; but temptations lurk there, and when we deliberately choose to spend our lives on that plane, we find ourselves exposed to the influence of evils of all kinds (pictured by the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah).

Sodom and Gomorrah picture selfishness and the falsity that goes with it. Selfishness and worldliness create jealousy and quarrels, and these often bring trouble to the innocent as well as to the guilty. This is why we should keep away from bad companions. Lot soon got into trouble because he chose to live too near to Sodom. The story of this first trouble and of Abram's rescue of Lot is told in the second part of our assignment.

But Lot did not learn his lesson. He still chose to live in the plain, and in chapter 19 we find him living in the very gate of Sodom. He still means to be good; so when Sodom and Gomorrah are about to be destroyed for their wickedness, the Lord sends two angels to warn Lot and, because Lot received them gladly and heeded their warning, they could lead him out of Sodom in time. We need to know that the word translated angel really means "messenger." Those who warn us of danger and try to keep us from doing wrong are the Lord's angels, too; and when we are tempted, the Lord always does manage to warn us through our parents, our teachers, our friends, or our conscience. If we welcome this advice and heed it, we can be saved.

We should know also the meaning of the well—known story of Lot's wife, who looked back after they were led out of Sodom and was turned into a pillar of salt. Have we ever recognized that something we have been doing is wrong and made up our minds to stop it, and then started thinking how pleasant it was and thus lost our good resolutions? This is Lot's wife looking back at Sodom. Salt in its good sense is the wish to do as truth teaches; in its bad sense it is the acceptance of a truth without the desire to live according to it. The pillar of salt into which Lot's wife was turned is set up in the Bible as a warning to all of us. When we make up our minds to do right, we must go straight forward and not let ourselves look back longingly at the old ways. Read Luke 9:62 and 17:28-32. "Remember Lot's wife" is a good verse to remember.

The choice which Abram offered Lot is presented to us over and over again in the Bible, as it is in life. Read Deuteronomy 30:15-20 and Matthew 6:19-21. One way lie earthly delights, the other way heavenly treasures. Both may be enjoyed so long as Lot is led by Abram. Abram settled in Hebron, a high place in the southern part of the Holy Land, and built his final altar there. A life of willing obedience to the Lord leads toward heaven.

