
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Have the class study a map and look up all the Bible references in the notes. Emphasize the fact that this is the beginning of true history in the Bible as well as the beginning of a third church. The important lesson is, of course, the foolishness of choosing the thing which looks easy and pleasant without stopping to think whether or not it is the right thing. Stress the importance of avoiding bad companions.

---
How did the people of the Most Ancient Church destroy themselves?

Why was it that Noah could be saved?

What was the first thing Noah did when he came out of the ark?

What did the Lord promise?

What does Swedenborg call the church which then grew up?

The people of the Ancient Church, like those of the Most Ancient Church, lived at peace with each other for a long time and were very happy and very wise, especially in spiritual knowledge. But as time went on, they began to be proud of their wisdom and to think that they were wise of themselves and did not need to learn of the Lord. Then they began to have differences of opinion, and each one thought everyone else ought to agree with him because he believed himself to be wise. Finally they could no longer live together in peace and were scattered all over the earth. Read Genesis 11:1-9. This is the familiar story of the Tower of Babel, but with what you have learned you can understand that it is a picture of the condition of the people in the end of the Ancient Church. The tower they were trying to build was begun in the valley — way down on the level of their own minds — and they imagined they could reach up to heaven in that way. All sorts of strange ideas and beliefs grew up, and men began to worship idols which they themselves made. Our history books go back to this time, because it was at this time that men began to try to preserve records of their own greatness, and history depends on these records for its knowledge. So our history books do not tell about the Golden and Silver Ages.

With chapter twelve of the Bible we begin to study about individuals who really lived and did the things the stories tell about. We have seen that Adam and Noah were names which described whole generations of people. But Abram and Lot were individuals. Look at a map and find Ur of Chaldea, where they lived. They were idolaters like all the people around them, but they were men who meant to be good and to do what God wanted them to do, and not just to have their own way. So the Lord could use them to begin another church on earth, which was to become the Jewish Church. Abram, or Abraham as he was later named by the Lord, was chosen because he was always willing to obey the Lord, even though he had many false ideas about God in his mind just as his father and ancestors in Chaldea had.

Abram was told by the Lord to leave Ur and travel to the land of Canaan, and the Lord promised to make of him there "a great nation," and to bless him. Abram obeyed, even though the journey was a long one and the new land was unknown to him. He took with him his wife Sarai, his father Terah, his brother Nahor, and his nephew Lot (whose father Haran had died). Look at your map and see how they had to go way up to the north to avoid traveling across the desert. Find the place called Haran. This place was named for Lot's father, and it was also called the "city of Nahor" because Nahor and his family decided to settle there and not go on to the land of Canaan. Terah also stayed there and died before Abram went on. But Lot continued with Abram. When they reached Canaan, which we know as the "Holy Land," they stopped first at Shechem and then at Bethel, and at each of these places Abram built an altar and worshiped the Lord. Then they went toward the south and, because there was a famine in the land, they went down into Egypt and stayed there for some time. And the Lord blessed both of them and made them rich.

But now that they were about to settle in the land which had been promised to Abram, they found that they would not be able to live together. Our story tells us that their herdsmen quarreled about where their herds and flocks should graze. We all know that quarreling is wrong, and yet we are tempted to quarrel even sometimes with friends. It is selfishness which causes quarrels. Abram refused to quarrel with Lot.

What did he propose?

By being generous he proved himself the better man, and the Lord did not let him lose by his kindness. Find Bethel on your map. It is on very high ground and from it you can see a long distance in both directions. It was a good place to make the choice of land.

What part of the land did Lot choose?

He chose it because it looked like good pasture for his flocks. He did not stop to think or to look ahead. We often choose the things that look best on the outside, without stopping to think.

What is mentioned in our reading from chapter 13 which suggests a possible danger in Lot's choice?

In chapter 14 we learn that this was a very real danger. How was Lot taken captive?

Who saved him and brought him back?

When we choose to live with bad companions, we are very likely to get into trouble just as Lot did. At first our friends step in and save us from the consequences of our foolishness. But each time we make the wrong choice, it is harder for us to be saved. Lot went on living in the low plain, and after a while he came to live in the very gate of Sodom. If you will read chapter 19, you will find that Sodom and Gomorrah had become so wicked that they were to be destroyed, and the Lord sent two angels to warn Lot and lead him out of Sodom. Even then he was not willing to go up into the mountains, as the angels advised him to do. You see that after Lot separated himself from Abram, he became weaker and weaker in character. Every time we choose to do what we know is not just what we ought to do, we grow a little weaker. Lot's descendants, the Moabites and Ammonites, were enemies of the Jews all through their history.

Can you see something of what this story means in its inner, spiritual sense? It means that when we choose to turn away from what we know the Lord wants us to do — the mountains always picture states near to the Lord — and choose to live for what we can get for ourselves — the low plain — just because that looks easiest and most pleasant, we are headed for trouble. And it means that we should be careful to keep good company and not imagine we are strong enough to go with bad companions without doing as they do. The story of Lot is written in the Bible by the Lord to serve as a warning to us.

Can you think of a sentence in the Lord's Prayer which we ought to say to ourselves when we are inclined to do as Lot did?

