
=== Notes for Parents

Abram, or Abraham as he was later renamed by the Lord, was a man chosen by the Lord as the founder of the Jewish Church. The church raised up among the few good people who remained after the Most Ancient Church perished (those described by the story of Noah) was called the Ancient Church. As you read in chapters 10 and 11 of Genesis, it continued for many generations, but eventually it also became corrupt. Its people were not destroyed like those of the earlier church, but they became hostile to each other and were scattered all over the earth. This is described in the symbolic story of the Tower of Babel. It was among these people that idolatry arose. Recorded history begins in this period and finds men selfish and warlike and worshipers of idols. But even among these people there were some individuals who were better than others. They, too, were idolaters and had lost all knowledge of true worship, but they believed in a God and wished to obey Him rather than to follow their own desires. Such a man was Abram.

Abram was called by the Lord to leave his home in Ur of Chaldea and go to the land of Canaan, which is called the Holy Land. He obeyed, taking with him his immediate family, which included his orphaned nephew Lot. Some of them stopped halfway — as some of us stop halfway in our progress from natural selfish living to a state of heavenly living — but Lot went on with Abram. Read the story in chapter 12. The lesson begins as they were about to settle in permanent homes in the Holy Land. We see that, although Abram and Lot did not quarrel, their herdsmen did, and Abram gave Lot his choice of the part of the country in which he wished to settle. Lot's choice of the low valley of the Jordan, because it looked pleasant and easy to live in, led him into many difficulties. Read with your children this week chapters 15 through 21 and see how Abram prospered while Lot failed even though Abram and later the Lord did their best to save him.

We all have choices to make every day, and we are often tempted to make Lot's choice of the way which looks easiest and most pleasant, without stopping to think of the temptations and dangers which the easy path so often brings with it. Yet we all admire people who are willing to do the hard things. And we know what we mean when we say of a person that he is "going downhill." Children should be taught that the easy way is not necessarily the right way, and that strength is gained — in mental and spiritual things as well as in physical ones — by measuring up to difficult tasks as they come to us.

