
=== Primary

The whole story of Lot can be told very simply, with emphasis on Abram's kindness to him, on the Lord's blessing of Abram because of his obedience, and on the Lord's merciful provision for the rescue and protection of Lot, even after he made a foolish choice. Be sure the children learn the names of Abram and Lot and the fact that the "children of Israel" about whom they will hear so much were descendants of Abram, and that the descendants of Lot were the Moabites and the Ammonites who became enemies of Israel. Explain also that Abram's name was later changed to Abraham, and that he is usually referred to as Abraham.

How was Noah saved from the flood?

When the rain was over, what two birds did he send out to see if the ground was dry?

How many times did he send out the dove?

What was the first thing Noah did when he came out of the ark?

A whole race of people was built up from the descendants of Noah.

For a time they lived well, but after a while they again forgot the Lord and began to go their own selfish ways.

But the Lord had promised not to destroy mankind again; so this time He scattered them over the face of the earth.

The story of this is told in the first nine verses of chapter 11 of Genesis. It is called the story of the Tower of Babel.

But again the Lord found a man who would obey Him.

The man's name was Abram. At first he lived in a city called Ur, but the Lord told him to take his family and everything he had and travel to the land of Canaan, because this was to be his home and the home of his children and grandchildren and great—grandchildren.

Canaan was a long way from Ur, but Abram obeyed the Lord.

He took his wife with him. Her name was Sarai. And he also took his nephew Lot, whose father was dead. Abram's brother Nahor and his family and old Terah, the father of Abram and Nahor, went, too, but they did not go all the way. They stopped at a place which they called Haran after Lot's father.

When Abram and Sarai and Lot reached the land of Canaan, one of the first places they stopped was Bethel. You will often hear of Bethel in our lessons. Do you remember what was the very first thing Noah did when he came out of the ark after the flood? He built an altar and worshiped the Lord. Abram did the very same thing at Bethel, because he was so grateful to the Lord for bringing them safely into the promised land.

Then Abram went farther south in the land of Canaan and then, because there was a famine in the land, they had to go down into Egypt for a while. A famine is a time when food is so scarce that people cannot get enough to eat. While Abram lived in Egypt, the Lord helped him and he became very rich "in cattle, in silver, and in gold."

When they came back to the land of Canaan, where did they go first? There Abram worshiped the Lord again.

What trouble did Abram and Lot have?

How did Abram settle the difficulty?

Lot went to live near Sodom and very soon began to have troubles. Once Abram had to go down and save him when the people of Sodom were carried away by their enemies, and later the Lord had to send two angels to save Lot when Sodom was destroyed because of its wickedness. When we have a choice to make, we should be more careful, shouldn't we?

