
=== Senior

With this class it is well to emphasize the way in which the natural tendency to worldliness grows upon us. They will find it prevalent in their environment and need to recognize its dangers and to be on their guard against it. The New Church differs from some of the other churches in its attitude toward external pleasures. Call special attention to the passage from the writing of Swedenborg quoted at the end of this lesson, which states the principle involved. Urge them to examine their recreations and pleasures to be sure that they are such as "agree perfectly with celestial things," that is, that they do not detract from their love to the Lord and the neighbor.

---
We have observed how when the Most Ancient Church became wholly evil, the Lord separated from the others the few who still retained a desire to serve Him, and formed them into a new church termed the Ancient Church, one of a different character and on a lower level of spiritual life than its predecessor. This Ancient Church, described in the story of Noah and his descendants, in time also perverted the revelation given to it, ascribing their knowledge of spiritual things to themselves and using it for selfish purposes. In the early days of this church men had set up images of animals and birds and other natural objects to call to their minds the spiritual realities which they represented. As the church declined, these images came to be worshiped as idols, and many degraded forms of worship sprang up. Because of their different beliefs and their pride in their own intelligence, they could no longer live together in peace, and gradually their descendants were scattered all over the face of the earth. The dispersion of the remnants of this church is symbolically described in the familiar story of the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1-9). It is in this condition that recorded history finds the human race, and some historians have assumed that man's original state was one of idolatry and mutual hostility, not realizing that these things were the result of a long decline. In the Bible story true history begins after the period described by the Tower of Babel, so that from now on we are reading about actual individuals. But this history was guided by @DP , and its record in the Word was inspired, so that it has a continuous inner meaning just as the early chapters of Genesis have.

The new church to be established out of the good remnant of the Ancient Church was to be on a still lower level. We recognize that in each of us there are three planes of life: the will, the understanding, and the outward conduct. The Most Ancient Church was connected with the Lord through the will, as we have seen, and the Ancient Church was led through the understanding. The third church, the Jewish Church, was to be governed wholly by the principle of obedience in the outward conduct. Indeed, Swedenborg tells us that it was not a real church at all since it had no "internal," but only the representative of a church. Yet so long as it remained faithful to the laws and statutes laid down for its observance, it served to keep the connection between the Lord and man, since these laws and statutes were correspondences of spiritual realities.

Abram was chosen by the Lord to be the father of the Jewish Church because he was a man who was willing to obey to the letter whatever commands he received from the Lord. He was called to leave his home in Ur of the Chaldees and his father's house, and go to the Holy Land — Canaan — where it was promised him that he should prosper and become a great nation.

In our own individual lives the great symbol stories of the first eleven chapters of Genesis describe the states which are in us by heredity. We are gifted with will and understanding, but both of these are naturally selfish. Men do not like to believe this; they like to imagine that they are born good and that other people are responsible for the evils which develop in them. But we should know better. No one has to teach a child to be selfish, to want his own way, to strike, to rebel against order. We are born selfish and the Lord has to teach us, through our parents and teachers first and later through the Word, what the true way of life is, and how to live it. At a very early age we, like Abram, are called to leave our natural inheritance and begin the long journey to the Holy Land of heavenly living. The whole period of Abram describes our childhood states.

We saw in the Creation story that in each of us there is an internal and an external side to our being — the heavens and the earth. With reference to the development of our outward lives, Abram pictures the internal and Lot the external man. Lot was Abram's nephew. He left Ur with Abram, traveled with him to Canaan, went down to Egypt with him, and returned to the Holy Land very rich. Then the herdsmen of Abram and Lot began to quarrel over pasture land for their herds. As very little children we are not conscious for a time of any distinction between our higher and our lower wants. But there soon comes a day when we have to choose between obeying our parents and having something we think we want. There is a contest within us between the principle of doing right and the principle of doing what pleases us at the moment. These opposing principles are the "herdsmen" of Abram and of Lot. The Lord permits the separation of the higher and the lower in us, but in the story of Abram and Lot He points out to us just what the dangers are when the worldly side of us separates itself from the direction of the higher or internal man. Lot chose the low plain of the Jordan because it looked pleasant and fertile, just as we often choose to live for external pleasures and success. But in this plain were the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, which represent selfishness in the will and the falsities in the understanding which go with this selfishness. Lot was first involved in the war which the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah were waging; he was taken captive and had to be rescued by Abram. So we are likely to become involved in the rivalries and jealousies of worldly ambition. And later in the story (chapter 19) when the wicked cities were to be destroyed, Lot was found living in the very gate of Sodom, and was delivered only by being led out by the two angel visitors. Even then, his wife — his affection — looked back and was turned into a pillar of salt as a warning to all who, having undertaken to lead a new life, look back longingly at the delights of the old life (Luke 17:31-33). Salt represents the fact that truth is of no value unless it is obeyed (see Matthew 5:13). Lot refused even then to go into the mountains as the angels advised him to do, and his descendants became enemies of the Israelites, just as the thoughts and desires which spring from our worldly choices continue to be stumbling—blocks in the path of our spiritual progress all our lives.

