
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are two important lessons here for Adults. One is that we need to read regularly all the Word — not just the parts which particularly appeal to us. The other is the simple outline of the good life found in Micah 6:8 in contrast to the many conflicting superficial ideas in the world around us. This verse provides endless food for thought and discussion.

---
We should all be familiar with the names of the twelve Minor Prophets, and for practical purposes it is best to know them in the order in which the books are found in our Bible, although this is not their exact chronological order. Little is known of their lives except from occasional statements in the books themselves, but they all claim direct divine inspiration and were included in the Judaic canon. Most of them state specifically the period in which they prophesied, but the periods of Joel, Obadiah, and Nahum are uncertain. Jonah is considered the earliest, the first great prophet after Elisha, and his book, unlike the others, contains considerable personal narrative. Hosea and Amos follow next after Jonah in time and were contemporaries. Micah was a contemporary of Isaiah. Zephaniah prophesied in the time of Josiah of Judah and Habakkuk in the time of Jehoiakim. Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi were all prophets who lived during the restoration. Hosea, Amos, and Jonah prophesied in Israel and the others in Judah. These books are all so short that the ancient Hebrews wrote all twelve of them on one manuscript or scroll.

Even in the letter the books of the Prophets are often obscure and difficult. It is impossible to make a study of each of the twelve Minor Prophets within the limits of a Sunday school course. In their letter they deal with the corrupt state of the Church, with the ruin which will inevitably follow upon such perversion of the divine gifts, and with the preservation of the good remnant and the coming of the Messiah. Many of them contain strange visions and commands which can be interpreted only by the law of correspondence. Only the book of Jonah contains narrative of the type which children can readily grasp. Yet all twelve, like the four Major Prophets, had a message which was essential to the people of their day and which, in its inner meaning, is essential to people of all time, to point out and condemn particular evil states and to give hope to those who are in despair. Even if much of the contents of the Minor Prophets seems incomprehensible to us, these books should be read reverently and attentively, in order that the letter may make its impression on the mind and be there for the Lord to use. We know that the reading of every part of the inspired Word connects us with particular societies in the heavens and serves them as well as helping us by new conjunctions. We shall also find many familiar prophecies in them which will help us to connect the Old and the New Testaments, and scattered through all twelve books there will be passages such as the one chosen for our reading today which are so direct and clear that they will come to serve us as constant guides to thought and conduct.

As we read any part of the Word, we should realize that it speaks to us. In our lesson the Lord, through the prophet Micah, calls upon the mountains to witness His dealings with His people. The mountains, picturing our states of nearness to the Lord when we look down upon our lives as from a height, do bear witness to the Lord's constant mercy and protection and to the blessings which He gives us freely. They also bear witness to our ingratitude and forgetfulness, and to our proneness to follow self-interest and worldly ways — to walk according to the statutes of Omri and the works of the house of Ahab. Yet the Lord's way is not hard or burdensome. He does not require us to give up anything that is really good or that will really make us happy. And He does not leave us in the dark as to what the good life is: "He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?"

This is a verse which everyone of us should know by heart and repeat often. The three requirements of a good life belong to the three planes, beginning with the outmost. "To do justly" is to be honest and upright and faithful in our outward conduct. This is the first step toward heaven, literal obedience to the commandments, reformation, the baptism with water. Many think it is enough, as the rich young man did. But the Lord tells us that we must also "love mercy." This is to love the neighbor. Abstract justice would permit us to punish those who injure us, to love only those who love us, but mercy requires that we love our enemies, bless those who curse us, and do good to those who despitefully use us and persecute us. This is the baptism with the Holy Spirit. Many stop here. They say, "If we are honest and faithful in our conduct and kind to our neighbors, what more can anyone ask?" The Lord does ask more. There is still the inmost plane, the most important of all since it determines the quality of all our thoughts and acts. On this inmost plane we are told to "walk humbly with thy God." The Lord said to the rich young man, "Sell whatsoever thou hast ... and come, take up the cross, and follow me." Put most simply, this means that we must give up our own way whenever it is contrary to the Lord's. This is the essence of walking humbly with God, to recognize that all goodness, wisdom, and power are the Lord's, to study His Word, and to submit ourselves humbly to its guidance. This is to love the Lord, the baptism with fire. People can live outwardly correct lives and be kind to their neighbors and still within cherish pride and self-satisfaction and shut the Lord out of their hearts altogether. Heaven is where the Lord is. We cannot be in heaven either here or hereafter if the Lord is not in our hearts. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment."

