
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Younger Teens are old enough to realize that the thought and feeling must be right as well as the conduct, although they are still in the stage when conduct is rightly their chief concern. Remind them that all the prophets are speaking to us, and that a single verse like Micah 6:8 really taken to heart can do a great deal to mold the right kind of character. The people they really respect are those they feel to be sincere. They themselves are quick to detect and condemn any goodness which is "put on."

---
All of the prophets are not arranged in historical order in the Bible. Bible students have given much time and study to the attempt to place the Minor Prophets from "internal evidence"; that is, things that are said and language forms that are used in the books themselves. The prophet Micah tells us his own place in history in the first verse of the first chapter of the book. He was a contemporary of Isaiah and lived in Judah. Amos and Hosea were a little earlier and Jonah is thought to have been the earliest of all. Zephaniah prophesied in the reign of Josiah of Judah, Habakkuk in the last days of the kingdom and the beginning of the captivity, and Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi in the time of the return. The periods of Joel, Obadiah, and Nahum are uncertain. The message of the Minor Prophets is principally applicable to older people, but there are things in all of them which we can all understand.

In Micah there are two passages of special note. One is the prophecy in 5:2 which was the source of the direction given to the Wise Men in Matthew 2:1-6. The other is verse 8 of our chapter, one of the most beautiful and well known summaries in the Scriptures, a verse everyone should know by heart and think of often, for it gives in simple terms the requirements for a good life by which we may judge ourselves. A life, to be really good, must be right on all three planes, beginning with the lowest, the plane of external conduct, and ascending through love to the neighbor, which is the spiritual plane, to love to the Lord, which is the inmost or celestial plane. The Lord stated this same teaching in Matthew 23:23. It is easy to see the necessity of this when we remember that at death the inner life is opened and we take our places according to the quality of that inner life. In heaven, love to the Lord and the neighbor rule, and if we have not developed these loves, we cannot possibly be happy there.

No one attains inner goodness all at once. We have to begin by making our conduct right, then progress to cleansing our thoughts, and finally, if we persevere, the Lord will give us a "new heart" to replace our natural selfish inclinations. This is the process of reformation and regeneration, the "second birth" of which the Lord spoke to Nicodemus. Our part in it is to learn and do the Lord's will from day to day in little things as well as in big ones.

Micah, like all the prophets, called attention to the actual sins which the people were committing. We need to examine ourselves from time to time and single out our "besetting" sins in order that we may fight them. As it is not enough just to do external good works, it is also not enough merely to confess that we are sinners in general. We must recognize and overcome particular faults one at a time.

Each of the Minor Prophets has a particular message for us.

We should study them more as we grow older and have more life experience to draw on for understanding them. But we can all understand the rules for life which Micah gives us and use them from day to day as standards and guides.

