
=== Junior

The historical background can be taken up in this class and the various Bible references studied. Have the children memorize verse 8, and discuss each of the three rules separately. Point out how much happier the world would be if everyone obeyed them.

---
For our lesson today we have chosen the prophet Micah, because in our chapter he gives us in one verse which we can easily learn by heart a clear and simple statement of the requirements of a good life. Micah, as he tells us in the first verse of his book, lived in Judah in the days of the kings Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. This was the same time in which Isaiah lived. Micah points out some of the particular sins of the people of that time.

What ones can you find mentioned in our chapter?

What does Micah say will be the punishment for these sins?

Now read verses 6 to 8. People today do not actually sacrifice animals or bring meal and oil to the church as offerings, or sacrifice their children to obtain salvation for themselves. Yet we are not so different after all from the people of Micah's time. We do like to do as we please most of the time and then imagine we make up for it by going to church on Sunday and putting something in the collection plate and perhaps giving something to charity once in a while and being very generous to someone now and then.

The Lord tells us through Micah that the good life does not consist in doing something spectacular occasionally, but in a certain quality of daily living. As in everything else, there are three planes of our lives concerned in goodness. They are will, thought, and act. In our acts we must "do justly." That is, we must be honest and fair in little things as well as in big ones. We must not be always trying to get the better of someone else or to get something for nothing. Then in our thoughts we must "love mercy." That is, we must be kind and forgiving, not holding grudges or trying to pay people back when they injure us, but always ready to help others. Finally, and most important of all, in our hearts we must "walk humbly" with God. That is, we must recognize that we are often wrong and weak and that we need to learn all we can about the Lord and what He teaches us in the Word, and to make the Lord's ways our ways, instead of trying to prove that what we happen to want to do is what ought to be done.

More than seven hundred years after the time of Micah the Lord found the same faults with the scribes and Pharisees which Micah had found in their ancestors. And the Lord gave them the same rules for a good life. Read Matthew 23:23.

One more thing we must learn about the book of Micah. Read Micah 5:2. Does this sound familiar? Now read Matthew 2:1-6. The Old Testament and the New Testament are bound together even in the letter by so many such prophecies and fulfillments that they cannot be understood apart from each other. And in its internal meaning the Old Testament is really a life of the Lord. He came to "fulfill" the Law and the Prophets. You will understand this better when you are older.

