
=== Notes for Parents

The last twelve books of the old Testament are called the Minor Prophets. They are so much shorter than the other books that all twelve used to be written on one scroll. In Old Testament times books were not like our books, but were long pieces of parchment which could be rolled up on round pieces of wood. Jews today still keep the Torah, or Law, on such a scroll in their synagogues in a shallow, curtained chamber which they call the "ark." The chamber occupies the same place which the altar and Bible occupy in our churches, as the focus of vision for the congregation.

The books of the Minor Prophets in our Bible are not in exact historical order. Jonah is thought to have been the earliest. Hosea, Amos, and Jonah prophesied in Israel. The last three, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, prophesied after the return from captivity. The others were all prophets of Judah. Some of them tell us in what period they prophesied; a few do not, and their dates cannot be certainly placed.

Many people are not very familiar with the books of the Minor Prophets. While everyone feels in them the same strange power which is felt throughout the Word because it is really the Lord who is speaking to us in it, there is little narrative in them to fix them in our minds, and they often seem disconnected and obscure. But we should read them just the same, for the Lord knows what we need better than we do, and we are told that as we read any part of the Word, guardian angels are present with us as we read, sensing the inner meaning, and so the Lord can help us through even the parts we do not understand at all. And often, as in our chapter for today, we come upon a verse which has a clear, direct meaning for every one of us.

The prophet Micah tells us (Micah 1:1) that he lived in Judah in the time of three of its kings, the best known of whom was Hezekiah. Like all the prophets, he was sent by the Lord to point out to the people the sins they were committing, to warn them what the result would inevitably be if they continued in the same ways, and to show them the path the Lord wanted them to follow. The prophets were not popular. In our chapter Micah points out clearly the injustice, violence, and deceit of the people, and begs them to return to obedience to their God, who has done so much for them. He tells them that they cannot make up for the evil of their deeds by sacrifices and offerings to the Lord, no matter how great these may be. There have been men in our own country who have thought that they could be as hard and unjust in their dealings as they liked in order to make money, provided that after they made it they gave part of it to the church or to some great charity.

Micah is speaking to us as well as to the people of his day when he says that it is our daily dealings with our fellow men which count in the Lord's sight and our daily attitude toward the Lord and His teachings by which we are finally judged. The verse which we should ask the children to learn is one which we should all know and say to ourselves often: "He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God."

