
=== Primary

Try to teach Micah 6:8 to the children and explain simply what it means, especially by illustrating its opposite from their own experience. Do they ever try to claim credit to themselves for what someone else has done or put the blame for their own naughtiness on someone else? Do they ever get angry with others and try to make them suffer? Do they ever want their own way even when they know it is wrong? These children should also hear again the names of the twelve Minor Prophets and learn where to find them in the Bible. The learning and explanation of the three rules should be the basis for most of the lesson.

---
At the end of the Old Testament there are twelve short books called the Minor Prophets.

Let us open our Bibles and read their names.

Some of these Minor Prophets lived in Judah and some in Israel. The last three prophesied after the people returned from captivity.

Each has his special message, but they all rebuked the people for their sins.

The ancient Hebrews did not have the kind of books we have.

Their books were all written by hand on very long pieces of parchment or skin. A round stick was fastened to each end. Then, as it was read, the "book" was unrolled from one stick and rolled up on the other. The twelve books of the Minor Prophets were so short that they could all be written on one scroll.

Our lesson for today is from the book of the prophet Micah. He lived in the kingdom of Judah and prophesied during the reigns of three kings, the greatest of whom was Hezekiah. The Lord always sent His prophets to tell the people when they were doing wrong and to warn them of what would happen if they went on doing it, and to urge them to change their ways and do right. The Lord had done many wonderful things for the people and He had a right to expect them to obey Him. When your parents find fault with you for being naughty, you should remember how much they are doing for you all the time and that you owe them loving obedience.

Let us read Micah 6:1-12. As we read, see if you can pick out some of the good things the Lord had done for the people and some of the bad things they were doing.

Through Micah the Lord is speaking to us also.

Are we ever really happy when we are doing what we know is wrong?

"To do justly" means always to be fair and honest in little things as well as in big ones. "To love mercy" means always to be kind and forgiving and helpful and never to want to hurt anyone.

"To walk humbly with thy God" means to read our Bibles regularly, to go to church and Sunday school, and to try always to do what will please the Lord rather than just what will please ourselves.

