
=== Senior

The position and value of the Minor Prophets should be stressed. All the Word of God is given "for our good always." The Seniors are drawing close to independent adult life and should be helped to realize the importance of choosing a proper pattern not only for their conduct but for their inner life as well. It is what they are which will actually count wherever they go and whatever they do in their lives, and not only in this world but in the life to come.

The twelve books which conclude the Old Testament are called the Minor Prophets. This is because they are short, not because they are less important than the others. When we look through Swedenborg's summary explanation of these books in his work Prophets and Psalms, we find that in the inner meaning they have to do with the complete "vastation" of the ancient Jewish Church through its accumulated evils and with the establishment of a new church of a more internal and therefore more genuine character. All twelve prophecies were spoken after the division of Solomon's kingdom into the two separate kingdoms of Israel and Judah. From the time of that division the decline of the nation was rapid. Jonah is thought to have been the earliest of the Minor Prophets, but he was probably partly contemporary with Hosea and Amos, who place themselves in the reign of Jeroboam 2 of Israel and Amaziah and Uzziah of Judah, thus after the time of Asa and before that of Hezekiah. Micah, from whose book our lesson is taken, was a contemporary of the Major Prophet Isaiah, placing himself (Micah 1:1) in the time of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. The fall and captivity of Israel took place while Hezekiah was king in Judah; so the rest of the Minor Prophets belong to Judah after it was deprived of the protection of Israel. The three last, Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi, prophesied after the people of Judah returned from their own captivity in Babylon. We can, therefore, think of all the Minor Prophets as the voice of the Lord coming to us when our understanding has been undermined and taken captive by worldly reasonings and when our good intentions are either in the last throes of the struggle to hold out against selfishness or have actually been swept away by it. So the detailed study of the Minor Prophets is for older people rather than for Sunday school children. Nevertheless there are passages which are clear and helpful for anyone.

We have such a passage today in Micah 6:8, in which we are given in very simple terms the rules for a good life. Compare this verse with the Lord's words to the scribes and Pharisees in Matthew 23:23. Outward acts of worship are necessary for us, but they should be done not as an end in themselves, but as an external expression of something genuine within. They are not a substitute for genuine day—to—day goodness. Three planes of requirement are described: justice in the outward acts, kindness and gentleness in the thoughts, and humility before the Lord in the heart. All these demand the overcoming of selfishness. We cannot be just in our outward acts if we put our own needs and interests first. We cannot be kind and gentle in thought if we believe others should always agree with us and defer to our opinions. We cannot be humble before the Lord if we do not seek always to learn of Him and to do His will rather than our own. See how verses 10 to 12 of our chapter single out the particular evils which the people of Judah were committing in violation of the three rules. So we must examine ourselves in the light of the three rules and recognize the particular things in us — the particular actions and thoughts and feelings - which are standing in the way of our regeneration. And we must fight these failings one by one. No one can do this work for us. If we learn the three rules and accept them as our own yardstick from day to day, we shall grow better and happier all the time.

