
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The reason for the sealing of the Word and for the time chosen by the Lord for its opening should be discussed, and also the reason why it is often so difficult and even impossible to interest others in the truths which mean so much to us.

---
At the beginning of the explanation of this chapter in the @AR Swedenborg says that its general meaning is "that the Lord in the Divine Human will execute judgment from the Word and according to it, because He Himself is the Word; and that this is acknowledged by all in the three heavens."

The Word itself contains many references to a "book of life."

There are also statements as to the actual writing of the Word in its letter, such as Deuteronomy 31:9 and Jeremiah 36:1-4. Nor is our chapter for today the only place where we are told that the Word has been a sealed book. Isaiah 29:9-12 is a clear picture of the inability of men to understand the Word by means of their own unenlightened reason. And Daniel (Daniel 12:4) is told to "shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end." That the prophets themselves did not understand the meaning of the words which were given them to write appears from the same chapter (Daniel 12:8-9): "And I heard, but I understood not: then said I, O my Lord, what shall be the end of these things? And he said, go thy way, Daniel: for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end." It is evidence from these verses in the letter that the Word was purposely sealed by the Lord, and that it could not be opened except by the Lord, and not until men had reached a particular stage of development. From the very letter of Scripture, therefore, we should see that there is something written within the Word which can never be read without some divinely revealed key. Our chapter for today gives us this truth in unmistakable terms.

The New Church is the church of the opened Word. It believes that the inspired portions of the Scriptures are divine truth spoken by the Lord but necessarily — in order to reach men — clothed with corresponding forms of angelic and earthly thought and expression, just as light, coming to earth from the sun, is modified by the atmosphere and broken up and reflected in various ways by the natural forms which receive and transmit it. The letter of the Word is the outmost expression of divine truth. Being given through the minds of men in both good and evil states, it shows the truth as it appears both to the good and to the evil. Thus often the real truth takes on a directly opposite expression. That is why, for example, the Lord is sometimes spoken of as being angry, jealous, and vengeful, and as punishing and destroying. We can easily understand this if we will think how arbitrary and hard our parents' loving admonitions seemed to us as children, when we were bent on disobeying. Or we may hear critics of the Word find fault with the commandments because they are in the negative form; but we may answer that to be told not to steal, for instance, is no hardship except to one who wants to steal. Truth inevitably seems hard to those whose desires are evil, and the only way in which the Lord can reach them is by showing the consequences of their evils, just as genuine love of parents for their children must express itself in checking their evils as well as in encouraging their good deeds. The letter of the Word is written for all sorts and conditions of men in all times, and there is enough genuine truth in the surface meaning to show any sincere person the way to salvation.

And the letter of the Word is absolutely necessary. As Swedenborg says in the Doctrine of the @DSS, n. 30, the sense of the letter of the Word "is the basis, the containant, and the support of the spiritual sense and of its celestial sense." Without the letter of the Word divine truth would be dissipated just as the contents of a pitcher is spilled and wasted if the pitcher is broken.

The book was "sealed." But it was promised that it should be opened at "the time of the end" and it was said, "many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." (Daniel 12:4) The New Church believes that "the time of the end" when the book should be opened came in the middle of the eighteenth century, when people had mentally "run to and fro" and had increased in worldly knowledge to the point where good people with a sincere desire to know the Lord could no longer believe all the letter of the Word to be literal fact. At that time, through the prepared mind of Emanuel Swedenborg, the Lord Himself opened the Scriptures, by revealing once more the knowledge of correspondences. This involved not only verse—by—verse explanations of portions of the Word, but the revelation of detailed realities of the spiritual world and its relation to this world, and also doctrines which, drawn from the letter of the Word itself, enable us to read it with enlightenment and to understand the Lord and His purposes and our relation to Him. This was the promised Second Coming of the Lord, a coming not in the flesh, but in His Word — in the "clouds of heaven" - opening its inner meaning and so fulfilling His promise to His disciples: "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now." (John 16:12)

Our chapter tells us that "no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book," and Swedenborg claims no credit to himself: he says that the spiritual sense was revealed to him by the Lord alone as he read the Word (@TCR 779-780). In @DSS 25-26 he tells us that no one can see the spiritual sense "except from the Lord alone, nor unless from Him he is in genuine truths," and he also tells us that "for a long time the spiritual sense will not be recognized, and that this is entirely owing to those who are in falsities of doctrine, especially concerning the Lord, and who therefore do not admit truths," and that the conflicts described in the book of Revelation picture the opposition in the world to the spiritual sense. All those who have received with delight the teachings of the New Church with regard to the Word and have endeavored to share this delight with relatives and friends attached to the doctrines of other churches have had personal experience of this opposition. Both Ezekiel (Ezekiel 2:9-10; 3:1-3) and John (Revelation 10:8-10) in vision were told to eat a little book, and both found it sweet as honey in the mouth. But as the angel told John and he proved by experience, "It shall make thy belly bitter." Our first taste of the opened Word is full of delight and promise, but if we "eat it up," if we sincerely try to live it out, we must be prepared to take the bitter with the sweet. This is the challenge to our sincerity and courage. And most people shrink from anything which promises to make drastic changes in their ways of thought and life.

Our chapter presents a beautiful picture of the power of the Lord through the Word and of the worship of the Lord in the heavens. The "Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David" pictures the Lord as to the power of His love. "A Lamb as it had been slain" is "the Lord as to His Human, not acknowledged in the church to be Divine" (@AR 269). The seven horns picture His omnipotence and the seven eyes His omniscience. The harps in the hands of the beasts and elders represent "confession of the Lord's Divine Human from spiritual goods" (@AR 277). The new song "signifies the acknowledgment and glorification of the Lord, that He alone is Judge, Redeemer, and Saviour, thus the God of heaven and earth" (@AR 279). "And the four beasts said, Amen" signifies "Divine confirmation from the Word" (@AR 292). We recall that the beasts or cherubim picture the Lord's protection of inner truth by the letter of the Word and the twenty-four elders all who are in the Lord's church in the heavens and on earth.

