
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Explain the correspondence of the details of the vision, stressing the fact that only the Lord could open the Word. Relate this to the New Church belief in regard to Swedenborg's function as the instrument of the Second Coming.

---
Our chapter for today continues the vision which begins in chapter 4. We remember that a throne is a symbol of judgment; so we recognize that what John was to see was a judgment which would take place on the people of the Christian Church. You can see that it is quite fitting that this vision should come directly after the messages of rebuke and warning which John had been given for his seven churches in Asia Minor. In the New Church we accept Swedenborg's statement that the great judgment here prophesied, which is called the Last Judgment, actually took place in Swedenborg's day. He says that all the men and women from the first Christian Church who passed from this world from the time of the Lord's ascension to the time of this judgment had been allowed to live in "imaginary heavens" until the "fullness of time" when the judgment could take place. The fullness of time was the time when men had reached such a stage of development that the inner meaning of the Word could safely be opened to them.

The judgment was brought about, just as our chapter for today pictures it, by the Lord's opening the sealed scroll or book. The book is the Word. It is written "within and on the backside." That is, it has an obvious surface meaning and an inner meaning. The inner meaning was sealed, except for the glimpses which the Lord gave His disciples when He was in the world, and occasional verses in which it is allowed to come to the surface. Such a verse is Revelation 5:8 of our chapter for today, in which we are told plainly what the "vials full of odors" picture. The twelfth chapter of Daniel tells about the sealing of the book and the reason for it.

In John's vision the sealed book is in the right hand of the Lord as He sits on the throne of judgment. Sooner or later our lives must be judged as to whether or not we have lived according to the teachings of the Word. Read also Revelation 20:11-12. The more deeply we can see into the Word, the more clearly our real motives and thoughts come to view. So our chapter is followed by others telling of things that happen as the seals are opened, one after another, until finally all who are at heart opposed to the unselfish love which is the inmost of the Word have turned from its light and found their places in the hells, and all who are in harmony with it have been prepared to enter the gates of the holy city.

The Lord on the throne is the Lord as He is in Himself above our power of comprehension. The lion of the tribe of Judah is the Lord in the power of His love, reaching down to teach us the way of life. The lamb "as it had been slain" is the Lord as He came into the world and died for us, leaving us free to choose to believe in Him or not.

The Lord alone could open the seals. Swedenborg tells us again and again that what he was allowed to write down of the inner meaning of the Word did not come from his own mind, but was revealed through him by the Lord, and that this opening of the Word to his understanding and through him to ours was actually the promised Second Coming of the Lord. At the same time that the book was unsealed in this world, it could be unsealed in the spiritual world; so the Last Judgment took place there. From that time on, everyone who has passed from this world into the spiritual world has been free to make his choice there, which is his judgment, because the necessary truth is open and available, but he makes it according to the kind of life he has learned to love while he was in this world.

In addition to the "golden vials full of odors, which are the prayers of saints" — we may think too of the golden altar of incense in the holy place — we should know that harps picture "confession of the Lord from spiritual truths." Earlier in this course we spoke of different kinds of musical instruments mentioned in the Word, and you will perhaps remember that stringed instruments symbolize our expressions of truth and wind instruments expressions of love.

We should notice also the passages in Revelation 5:12-13 which we use in some of our responsive services.

