
=== Junior

The details of the vision should be impressed on this class with as much explanation as they are able to understand. Have them look up Daniel 12:4 and tell them why the book was sealed. Then tell them how this vision of the opening of the book was fulfilled in the Second Coming and what a privilege we have today in being able to study the inner meaning of the Word.

---
You remember that a throne is a picture of judgment. John was to be shown a symbol picture of the way in which people on earth would receive or reject the Lord, and of how they would be judged and what their eternal life would be. For the Lord tells all of us about Himself and about how we should live, and the way in which we use this knowledge determines our lives, not only in this world but in the other world forever.

When a case is brought into court in this world, the first thing that must be done is to try to find out the facts. But our lives are made up not only of the things we do which everyone can see, but also of our hidden thoughts and feelings. These are not easy to find out. Sometimes we don't even know them ourselves. But the Lord does, and in the other world they all come into view.

So in John's vision the beginning of the judgment was the opening of the book of life. The scroll or book which John saw in the Lord's hand was the Word. In the Bible as we have it the Lord's thoughts and feelings are clothed in thoughts and words which we can understand — which even evil people can understand. There are things in the letter of the Word which appeal to the good and things which strike home to the evil. Each one sees in it what meets his own needs.

We can get some idea of how the Word is written if we remember that sometimes we cannot say to someone — a child, for instance - just what we mean, and yet our real meaning is within what we say, and an older person hearing us will understand the real meaning. In the same way, the Word is a book with an outside and an inside meaning, and the inside cannot be opened except to people who can understand it. And since the inside meaning of the Word is full of love and truth from the Lord, the things which make people unable to understand it are selfishness and worldliness. So as people became more and more evil, the Word had to be sealed. Read Daniel 12:4. But when the Lord came in to the world, a new upward trend among men began, and this in time made it possible for the Word to be opened again. Then the Lord made His Second Coming, and the New Church is founded on the opened Word.

In our chapter for today John is shown in vision how the Word is to be opened.

Why did John weep?

What did the angel tell him?

It is the Lord who is called the Lion of the tribe of Judah, and He is called a lion because of His power. He also appears to John as a "Lamb as it had been slain" to picture that the Lord was perfect innocence although He was put to death by men, as we recently learned.

What was peculiar about the Lamb?

This means that the Lord is all-powerful and all-seeing.

What did the creatures and elders have?

What are the golden vials full of odors said to be?

What was the new song they sang?

We repeat these same words and also the ones later in the chapter in some of our responsive services in church. When we take our service from the letter of the Word, we may know that we are using words which have an inner meaning and which have been given us by the Lord Himself.

In Revelation 5:14, what do the creatures say? Amen means "So be it."

Whenever we say "Amen" at the end of a prayer or sing it at the end of a hymn, we should remember that we are giving our solemn consent to the words we have just been saying.

