
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Even the young children should be able to picture the throne with the Lord sitting upon it, the elders, and the living creatures. Be sure they know that the one on the throne was the Lord, that the book was the Word, and that the Lord really has opened the Word for us now so that we can understand its true meaning. Revelation 5:14 offers a good opportunity to be sure that the children know what we mean when we say "Amen."

---
Do you remember how John saw the Lord sitting on a beautiful throne in heaven, with twenty-four elders and four cherubim bowing down before Him? Our chapter for today goes right on from there.

What do you suppose the Lord had in His hand? Let us read our chapter for today. [Read Revelation 5.] The scroll or book was the Word of God. You know that there are some things in the Bible which everyone can understand — like the ten commandments, for example. But there are a great many things in it which no one can really understand without the Lord's help. There are of course a great many things which grown people can understand although little children like you cannot. But even grown people always have more that they need to learn from the Lord, because He is the only one who knows everything.

Do you remember what a parable is?

If we could not understand the inside meaning of a parable, we might say it was sealed.

The whole Word is really a parable because it has an inner meaning. Its inner meaning was sealed for hundreds and hundreds of years.

But John's vision showed him that someday the Lord would open the seals. And many years after the time of John the Lord did open the Word.

He showed the inner meaning to a man named Emanuel Swedenborg.

And He told Swedenborg to write what he learned in books and publish them. Swedenborg obeyed; so now we may all learn about this inner meaning.

In our chapter the Lord is also called the Lamb.

He is a Lion because He is strong and powerful.

He is a Lamb because He is gentle and innocent.

In Revelation 5:14 what did the creatures say?

Amen means "So be it."

When we say "Amen" at the end of a prayer, it means that we will do all we can to help the Lord make the prayer come true.

The Lord does not explain things to us until we are ready to understand and to try to live according to what He tells us. Let us read what the Lord said to the prophet Daniel long, long before the time of John. [Read Daniel 12:4.] The book was sealed because people did not want to obey its teachings. You have learned already in your lessons this year that the whole of the Word of God is a parable, a story with another meaning inside of it.

The time finally came when there were people in the world who were ready and willing to understand this inside meaning. Then the Lord could open the sealed book. This is what the Lord was showing John in his vision. As you grow older, if you are good children and really want to learn from the Lord, He will help you to learn more and more of what the Bible really means.

