
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The opened Word as the basis of the New Church is the important lesson for the young people. They need to see this clearly and to gain a sense of the privilege and responsibility of being New Churchmen.

---
A throne is always a symbol of judgment, and this vision and the chapters following it picture the judgment which was to be made on the first Christian Church, the judgment which Swedenborg says actually took place in his day at the time of the Second Coming. For the Second Coming was the opening of the seals, and with it the opening of the inner life of motive and thought necessary to the establishment of a truly Christian Church.

Without a knowledge of the spiritual sense of the Word one might think that in this chapter the one who sat on the throne and the lion of the tribe of Judah and the lamb were three different persons. But they are three aspects of the divine being. The one who sat on the throne — of whom we are given no definite description — is God as He is in Himself, the Infinite beyond our comprehension. The lion of the tribe of Judah is the Lord as to the power of His divine love. The lamb is the divine humanity, in which God manifested Himself to us, and continues to manifest Himself. The words "as it had been slain" refer not only to the crucifixion, but to the way in which the Christian Church finally destroyed all true understanding of the divine humanity by the separation of God into three different persons and the doctrine of the vicarious atonement — the doctrine that Christ died to satisfy the wrath of an angry God and pay the penalty for our sins in our place. The lamb had seven horns and seven eyes to picture the omnipotence and the omniscience of the Lord in His divine humanity.

The explanation of the "golden vials full of odors" in Revelation 5:8 as "the prayers of saints" is one of the places where the inner meaning of the letter is clearly stated in the letter itself. It is a good passage to remember, and we should think of it in connection with the golden altar of incense in the holy place of the tabernacle and with all the laws for the offering of incense. In Revelation 5:11 Swedenborg says that myriad (translated "ten thousand") stands for truths and thousand for goods because "a myriad is the greater number, and a thousand a less, and truths are manifold, but goods are simple." So the multitude of angels picture the hosts of heaven — all those who worship the Lord from the good of love or from the truth of faith.

This whole chapter should impress upon us the fact that the Lord alone could have opened the Word; hence, that what we are told in the writings of Swedenborg is from the Lord, and is merely transmitted by Swedenborg as a human agent, "servant of the Lord Jesus Christ," as he calls himself. Our church is a small organization from a worldly standpoint, and sometimes when you go out into the world — especially if you live away from your own church — you may begin to wonder if it really has the truth, and if other churches are not just as good. When such doubts come into your mind, remember this chapter of Revelation and remember that only the New Church acknowledges the opening of the Word and has access to its inner meaning in any consistent way. This knowledge is available to everyone in the writings of Swedenborg, but accepting it means accepting the fact that Swedenborg was the human instrument of the Second Coming of the Lord, and very few people will even consider such a possibility. What Swedenborg calls "the pride of self-intelligence" is very strong in the world. Once one has really seen for himself, however, how wonderful the inner meaning of the Word is and how it helps us to understand the meaning of life and ourselves and our relation to the Lord, and how it helps us to see what is right and to do it, there is no room left for doubt.

Later we shall carry on our thought from this chapter into our study of the last part of the twentieth chapter which brings the judgment home to each of us individually. Actually we are judging ourselves from day to day as we choose either to live for self, closing our minds to the truth when it comes to us, or as we seek to learn more and more of the truth and examine ourselves more and more deeply in the effort to write the Word of the Lord "on our hearts," so that when we come into the other world and are given to see ourselves clearly "inside out," we shall find that our books tally with the book of life.

