
=== Adult

The mission of the prophets to us is the outstanding lesson for the Adults, and the class should be inspired to wish to study them seriously with the help of the writings.

The prophets were those who spoke for the Lord. Their words, although taken from the content of their own minds, were not their own, but were chosen and arranged by the Lord to express what He wanted to say not only to the ancient Hebrews but to all men for all time. To the people of the Old Testament the words of the prophets had an immediate meaning which related to their national life, rather than to the life of their individual souls. To us also the words written by the prophets have an immediate meaning, but it is a meaning which relates not to our national life but to our spiritual life. The Lord is speaking to us today through the recorded words of the prophets, and He has given us the key to unlock the meaning which these words are meant to have for us. The prophets all had a common mission, to point out and denounce evil and show what it led to, and to promise the rewards of righteousness. Yet we know that the Lord does not repeat Himself — even apparent repetitions in the letter take on varied meaning from their contexts — and so each of the prophets has a special message to meet special conditions and needs. The general historical background of each, so far as it may be drawn from the letter of the Word, will help us to read this special message.

The four Major Prophets were all from the kingdom of Judah.

Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel lived near the end of that kingdom, all three witnessing the captivity. Ezekiel and Daniel were both carried away among the early captives and prophesied from exile. Jeremiah wrote just before the captivity, and because he prophesied it and urged the people to submit, he was allowed by the king of Babylon to remain in his home; but later some of those who were left in the land forced him against his will to flee with them to Egypt, and it was there that he wrote the book of Lamentations. The book of Daniel was written in Babylon. The Jews did not include either Lamentations or Daniel in their Scripture canon because they were written outside of the Holy Land. Ezekiel wrote in Mesopotamia, but the Jews accepted him as inspired, possibly because he so often speaks of being carried in the spirit to Jerusalem for his visions.

Isaiah, as our chapter tells us, received his call "in the year that king Uzziah died," and prophesied in Judah during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. Recalling the meaning of Judah we see that Isaiah gives us the Lord's message to our affectional life at a time when we have departed very far from following the Lord in our minds and in our conduct, and when our ruling love is wavering between self and the Lord. King Uzziah, though a good king, was a leper, and leprosy in a good man pictures the inability to live rightly because of lack of the knowledge of what is genuinely good. When we have experienced the fullness of such a state, pictured by Uzziah's death, the voice of the Lord comes to us in some powerful way; it was a fitting time for Isaiah's call. Jotham, the next king, was good, but he was followed by the wicked Ahaz. So our wavering will responds to the voice of the Lord and then falls back. But when we once more resolve to reform and to make a thorough job of it, we seek the Lord's counsel voluntarily, as Hezekiah sought the advice of Isaiah whenever he was in need of it. We recall that Hezekiah carried out the most thoroughgoing reforms of any of the kings of Judah.*

[*Josiah is often ranked with Hezekiah in this respect. -Editor]

We are perhaps more or less familiar with the major characteristics of the four long prophetic books. Jeremiah is the prophet of doom. Ezekiel stands out in our minds for his visions of Jerusalem and the temple, in some respects very much like the visions of John in Revelation. Daniel is the voice of the faithful few among the captives in Babylon, whose steadfastness eventually made sufficient impression on their captors to bring about the return. In the book of Isaiah we are perhaps most familiar with the beautiful prophecies of the Advent, and we know Isaiah as a person from his dealings with Hezekiah. But Isaiah's call, with which our chapter for today deals, presents some of the basic principles which apply to all prophecy and indeed to all genuine service of the Lord.

Isaiah had a vision of the Lord as to His omnipotence, king and judge, sitting upon His throne, addressed as Jehovah Zebaoth, the Lord of hosts (@AC 2921). The seraphim above the throne picture the protecting power of the Lord. Wings picture spiritual truth (@AC 8765), and the three pair of wings show the power of spiritual truth to protect the interiors (the face) and the exteriors (the feet) and to lift one up above the level of merely natural things. Isaiah was afraid because he recognized his unworthiness. The mouth pictures thought from affection (@AE 580) and the lips the interior things of man (@AC 1286). In @AE 580 (see below) Swedenborg explains quite simply the purification in Isaiah's vision. Following this, Isaiah was ready to be the Lord's messenger.

We remember the Lord's teaching in Matthew 15:11, 17-19 that it is what proceeds out of the mouth which defiles a man, for "those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart." The first part of the message given to Isaiah, which is quoted in all the Gospels (Matthew 13:14, Mark 4:12, Luke 8:10, John 12:40), like the statements about the Lord's hardening Pharoah's heart, have been puzzling to many. We are often told by Swedenborg that the people of that day were of such a nature that they cared only for material things and that if they had perceived spiritual things, they would have profaned them. It is part of the Lord's mercy that we are permitted to see and acknowledge only so much of the truth as we are capable of living up to. The more selfish we become the more our minds are closed against the truth. Isaiah was to tell people that this state would continue until the land was utterly desolate, and that only then could a new beginning be made. The "tenth" which should return pictures the remains of good which are always preserved by the Lord as a possible new beginning. Each new church is founded on such a "tenth," and likewise each new beginning in us. These remains are likened to the terebinth or oak on account of their strength and persistence.

The call to be a messenger of the Lord comes to each one of us, and it begins with a vision of the Lord as king and judge. We are told, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." (Matthew 5:48) If we are to imitate the Lord, it is not enough to believe vaguely that there is a God: we must have a clear and definite idea of His character and power. The next step is to realize and acknowledge our own unworthiness, to see how far we are by nature from the pure love and wisdom which are the Lord. Then the cleansing fire of the Lord's unselfish love can come in and purify our motives, and inspire us to say, "Here am I; send me." Finally our message becomes clear: all worldliness and selfishness must be put away and the heavenly character must be built on the remains which the Lord has preserved in us for this purpose.

