
=== Notes for Parents

In our Bible there are seventeen books, beginning with Isaiah and ending with Malachi, which we call the Prophets. We divide these into the Major and the Minor Prophets, not because some are more important than others, but because the books of the Major Prophets are much longer than the others. There are four Major Prophets: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. Jeremiah also wrote the book which is called Lamentations.

Isaiah prophesied in the kingdom of Judah during the reigns of four kings, the greatest of whom was Hezekiah. Jeremiah also prophesied in Judah, but later than Isaiah. He prophesied during the last years of that kingdom and also after Judah was taken captive by Babylon, although Jeremiah himself was not carried away to Babylon. In his old age, his people took him against his will to Egypt, where he wrote the book of Lamentations. Ezekiel and Daniel were carried away by the Babylonians before they became prophets, and they prophesied in exile.

The book of Isaiah contains many familiar and beautiful passages, especially prophecies of the Lord's Advent, and is referred to frequently in the New Testament. In the Greek of the New Testament [KJV] the Hebrew name Isaiah becomes Esaias.

Our special assignment for today is the story of Isaiah's call by the Lord. The words which the prophets spoke were not their own, but were dictated to them by the Lord, and our story shows us some of the qualities which must be found in a man if he is to become a true servant of the Lord. First he must recognize the Lord. It is easy to understand that the Lord cannot be represented in the world by an unbeliever. Then he must be humble and conscious of his own shortcomings. If we are full of self-satisfaction, we will not even listen to the Lord ourselves. And finally he must be willing to serve the Lord. We should all want to do the Lord's work in the world and should always be ready, when opportunity comes, to say as Isaiah did: "Here am I; send me."

The cleansing of Isaiah's lips by the live coal from the altar is a beautiful picture of what a touch of the Lord's unselfish love does for our lives. Just think how much of our wrongdoing and how much of our unhappiness can be directly traced to our own selfishness! It is when we are not thinking of ourselves at all, when we are eagerly trying to help someone else, to bring happiness to some other person, that we are happy and at peace ourselves. And it is then that we can be truly useful to the Lord.

The mission of the prophets was twofold. They pointed out the evils of their times, warning men of the inevitable results of wrongdoing, and they encouraged the good by assuring them of the Lord's protection and help and of their final happiness.

And the prophets whose prophecies were, under divine providence, recorded in the Word of God are sent to us, to everyone in all times. Through the books of the Prophets the Lord is speaking to us. Let us not be like those whose ears were made heavy and whose eyes were shut.

