
=== Senior

The principal lesson for the Seniors is in the application to our own lives of the successive steps of Isaiah's vision. They are at a point where the difficulties of living the Christian life in the modern world are becoming apparent to them. The lives of the prophets can serve as an inspiration to fortify them against the temptation to give up the effort.

The seventeen books of the Prophets, as they are arranged in our Bible, are not in exact historical order. Although some of them do belong to the time after the taking captive of Israel and Judah, many of them parallel the history in the books of Kings. The earliest is thought to have been the minor prophet Jonah. A number were contemporaries. Each, like the many prophets who left no written record of their words, had his own place and time, and his words had a meaning for the people of that time. Bible scholars make use of the peculiarities of the text and the historical allusions in the letter to place the men historically. This study is interesting and helpful so long as we are careful to sift out the theories which are based on purely humanistic premises, for these leave the Lord's providence and the possibility of prophecy out of the picture.

For us, however, the value of the Prophets is not in the personality of the individual or in his effect on his own people and time, interesting as such considerations are, but in what the Lord is saying through these chosen men to us today. For through them He speaks to us just as really as He spoke to the ancient Hebrews through their lips in the first place. What we learn from the Prophets will depend partly on our own states and needs and partly on the effort we make to find the inner meaning of their words with the help of the key to interpretation given to the new age by the Lord through Swedenborg. Although there are some simple lessons and even some stories in the letter of these seventeen books (Jeremiah wrote two), they are for the most part composed of "dark sayings," food for a lifetime of study and thought for each person in all time.

The Lord through all His spokesmen is trying to point out to us the way of life, so that we may choose the way that leads to happiness and avoid the pitfalls which lie beside the road. The purpose of the Lord is to neglect nothing which could help us to choose the right path. But if we close our ears to His prophets, as their contemporaries did, He cannot help us. The choice is always ours.

The four Major Prophets — Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel - belong to the last days of the Israelitish nation. The first two prophesied before the captivity, Jeremiah also writing the book of Lamentations in Egypt after the captivity, and the last two to the period of the captivity itself. It is easy to see why Isaiah and Jeremiah were persecuted as prophets of doom, while Ezekiel and Daniel were honored. When we are in trouble, we turn to the Lord.

Our chapter for today is from the book of Isaiah, the first of the Major Prophets. It concerns Isaiah's call, and it teaches us lessons which are true not only of every prophet but of every individual who wishes to advance the Lord's kingdom. Isaiah's experience is given to show us what is necessary if one is to speak for the Lord to others: first, a vision of the Lord as king and judge; second, the humble sense of one's own unworthiness; third, the consecration conferred by the touch of the Lord's unselfish love, the coal from the altar; and finally, the readiness to do the Lord's will.

We see also that the Lord told Isaiah quite plainly that most of the people would not listen to him. The hardest part of the true prophet's task is to continue to speak the truth though it falls on deaf ears. The last and most severe temptation of the Lord Himself in his earthly life was the temptation to try to save men against their wills, and we remember, too, that on the cross, the Lord was allowed for a moment to feel Himself forsaken by the Divine within.

But there is also in the last verse of our chapter the prophecy of the remnant. There will always be some few who will listen and remember. And in each one of us, so long as we are permitted by the Lord to remain in this world, there is this remnant, this possibility of return. So beware of trying even for a short time to stifle your conscience, for your conscience is the Lord's voice trying to reach you through whatever remains of goodness and truth you have in your heart and mind. This is not to say that your conscience always tells you what is right, for there may be very little truth there for the Lord to use; but the promptings are always a warning that you need to stop and think and try to find out whether you are really choosing a right and wise course or not.

