
=== Notes for Parents

In our lesson for today the children of Israel have left Sinai and have been traveling through the wilderness for some time. Once they even came almost in sight of the Holy Land; but when the spies they sent on ahead reported finding strong cities, powerful enemies, and even giants there, they refused to attempt the conquest, even though two of the spies — Joshua and Caleb — reminded them that the Lord was with them and would surely give them the victory. For this lack of trust in the Lord they were condemned to continue their wanderings in the wilderness for forty years, until all who were of age at the time of their cowardly decision, except Joshua and Caleb, should have died. In the same way, we ourselves all too often lose some great happiness because we refuse to "trust in the Lord and go forward."

And in another way we are very much like the children of Israel.

When we are suffering from the results of some wrong we have done, we try to find someone else to blame instead of ourselves. The Israelites blamed Moses and Aaron and rebelled against their leadership. If you have read chapter 16, you will know the immediate result of the rebellion and the terrible lesson they were given.

Then the Lord gave them a different kind of lesson. At Sinai the Lord had appointed Aaron to be high priest, and only a descendant of his was ever to hold this office. Now the Lord confirms the choice in the eyes of all the people by the sign of the rods. When twelve rods — one for each tribe, each marked with the name of the leader of the tribe — were laid up overnight before the ark in the Holy of Holies of the tabernacle, Aaron's rod bore buds and blossoms and yielded almonds. The other eleven remained mere sticks. In the Gospels the Lord tells us, "By their fruits ye shall know them," and we all understand that fruits mean deeds. Almonds are delicious, nourishing, and long-lasting fruit, and the almond blossom is beautiful. The lesson is not hard to see. Only love to the Lord and obedience to Him can make us happy and good, with the kind of goodness which endures. We should take this lesson to heart, as Moses was afterward commanded to lay up Aaron's rod before the ark forever "to be kept for a token against the rebels."

