
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are many good topics for discussion in this lesson: the nature of the higher rational, the false ideas of marriage and of worship which were in Abraham's mind, the Lord's permission of falsity in order to preserve the good intention, the true meaning of sacrifice.

---
We should have in mind that the first rational we develop in our childhood, represented by Ishmael, is what is called the "natural rational" — that is, it is the reasoning which bases its conclusions on natural knowledges (Hagar the Egyptian servant represents the affection for memory-knowledges), or sense experience, and on the outward appearance of things. It is a necessary step in our development and a necessary faculty all through our lives, since we must live practical lives in a finite world; and Ishmael, although he was banished from the Holy Land, became the father of a great nation.

Isaac represents the higher or spiritual rational, the rational which takes into account the Lord and spiritual things and recognizes that the outward appearance may be the opposite of the truth. Although Abraham was one hundred years old when Isaac was born, he continued to live for another seventy-five years; so Isaac was a long time in coming into his full inheritance. The spiritual rational is slow in developing, and for a long time must be kept close to childhood innocence and trust. Young people, when they begin to develop the ability to reason about spiritual things, need the protection of their early states of belief and wonder which the Lord has stored up in them as "remains." And there is a point in the life of every child who is developing in the right direction at which he feels the temptation described in our story for today: the temptation to give up his newly discovered faculty of reasoning about spiritual things, lest it interfere with his childhood faith. In the churches about us in the world, there are many conscientious young people who make just this decision; and some churches encourage it, teaching that there are "mysteries" which we are not meant to understand and must accept "on faith." Still others "sacrifice Isaac" in an easier and less conscientious way by promoting the idea that "it does not matter what you believe so long as you live well," discarding all real thought about spiritual things in favor of mere external good works.

The literal sense of this brief story raises some basic questions. It is said that "God did tempt Abraham." In the New Church we know that God never tempts, that all temptation comes from the hells and is the result of evils in our inheritance or in our environment or resulting from our own sins. We also know that the Lord never permits a temptation to present itself to us except as He sees that we are able to resist it with His help, if we will (see 1 Cor. 10:13). He constantly withholds all other temptations from us. Read, in this regard, the excerpt from the writings at the end of this chapter.

But we all tend to blame the Lord for all our troubles, tacitly if not openly. With Abraham this tendency was very natural. We have seen that he grew up among the people of the Ancient Church in its last perverted stage. He had many falsities in his mind. One of them was the belief that multiple marriages were permissible; hence his acceptance of Hagar. Another was the thought that God was a jealous God and needed to be propitiated. And another was the idea that it was laudable to sacrifice one's child, that this was the supreme sacrifice and hence must be especially pleasing to God. We are told that the Lord never destroys falsities in our minds until we are ready to receive the truth in their place. Read the parable in Matthew 12:43-45. We are also told that He uses the falsities in which we are brought up so far as they can be made serviceable to keeping us in orderly living and capable of advancing into a knowledge of truth. This He did with Abraham. In the case of his temptation to sacrifice Isaac the Lord allowed him to go through with it to the point of the very act in order that he might be confirmed in his intention of putting the Lord first in his life, and could be shown that this intention was the real sacrifice which the Lord desired. The ram represents "the spiritual from the human race," which is devotion to the Lord developed through conscience. And the ram was found "behind him" and was "caught in a thicket by his horns"; with Abraham this spiritual had been "entangled in natural knowledge" (@AC 2831).

Once we have grasped the general meaning of the story, every detail of Abraham's journey to Mount Moriah — the mount on which later Solomon's temple was built — becomes full of meaning for us. "Abraham rose up early in the morning and saddled his donkey." Morning pictures the beginning of a new state and the donkey pictures our natural reason. Abraham, having conceived a new purpose, acted upon it at once and began by bringing under control that faculty which so often rebels against our higher, spiritual promptings, but which can be made to serve them if our resolution is firm. This idea is further carried out in his taking the two young men, his servants, who picture the rational faculties already developed for service in his daily problems. "And he clave the wood of the burnt offering." Wood, Swedenborg says (@AC 2784), pictures "the good that is in works, and in justice," and the cleaving of wood pictures placing merit in this good. The placing of merit in one's own good works — except by the Lord in whom is all merit - is in itself an evil, but it can be made to serve a use when the end sought is the burnt offering, a genuine desire to serve the Lord. But when the mountain was in sight, the two young men and the donkey were left behind to wait, and the wood was carried up the mountain by Isaac. So we, when we are prompted to some new dedication of our lives to the Lord, often start out with very natural thoughts about what our service will be and even with a good deal of self-praise; but if we persevere — the three days' journey pictures a fully developed state — the mountain does come in sight, and we leave our natural selfish thoughts and reasonings behind, and our new spiritual thought bears the credit for our good deeds up the mountain to the Lord. And the whole experience is then crowned by the realization that to consecrate our reasoning powers to the Lord does not mean to give them up, but to find blessing and fulfillment through them (verses 15-18). And after this realization we can safely return to the exercise of our natural reasoning faculty in our daily activities. "So Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba." Beersheba signifies "the doctrine of charity and faith which was Divine and to which human rational things were adjoined" (@AC 2858).

In @AC 2767-2859 Swedenborg gives the interpretation of this whole story in its inmost sense, relating to the Lord's life. He shows us how the Lord admitted temptation through His human rational to the very utmost. In @AC 2786 we read: "As regards the state itself, it is ... the state which the Lord assumed when He underwent temptations, and here that which he assumed when He underwent the most grievous and inmost temptations. His first preparation for that state was that He entered into a state of peace and innocence, and that He prepared the natural man in Himself, as also the rational, so that they should serve the Divine rational, and that He adjoined the merit of righteousness, and in this manner elevated Himself." And in @AC 2795 we read: "The Lord could not be tempted at all when He was in the Divine Itself, for the Divine is infinitely above all temptation; but He could be tempted as to His human. This is the reason why when He was to undergo the most grievous and inmost temptations, He adjoined to Himself the prior human, that is, the rational and the natural of it, as described in verse 3; and why He afterwards separated Himself from these." An interesting statement is found in @AC 2816: "It is according to the internal sense, that the Lord's Divine led His Human into the most grievous temptations." We may think of this when we pray "Lead us not into temptation." The Lord had power to overcome every temptation and so "led" Himself into them. The form of our prayer suggests that we recognize that we have no power of ourselves, and would flee temptation as far as the Lord sees it to be possible. @AC 2819 is a wonderful summary of the whole doctrine concerning temptation.

