
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Follow the Older Children notes, stressing the geography. Have the class locate Bethel, Hebron, and Mount Moriah. Stress the true meaning of the word sacrifice, and explain how it was that Abraham could think that the Lord wanted him to kill Isaac. Make clear to them that what the Lord does want us to give up are those things which stand in the way of our doing right, and that we love the Lord as Abraham did when we put doing right above having our own way.

---
Where did Abraham come from?

Why did he leave there?

Where did he go?

Who went with him?

Where did his brother Nahor stop?

Who was Abraham's wife?

After his separation from Lot at Bethel, Abram went farther south and settled in Hebron. There he was regarded as a great man. The Lord blessed him and changed his name to Abraham. In the Hebrew language every letter is important. The letter represented by our h is one of the letters in the name Jehovah. Adding it to Abram's name meant that he was especially devoted to the Lord. The name of Abram's wife, Sarai, was also changed by adding an h: she became Sarah.

Abraham lacked one thing: a son to inherit all his possessions. Sarah, because she loved Abraham, offered him her Egyptian handmaid, Hagar, for another wife. In the depraved state of religion at that time, men thought it was permissible to have more than one wife. So by Hagar, Abraham had a son whom he named Ishmael. But the Lord told Abraham that it was not right that Ishmael should be his heir, and finally gave him a son by his true wife, Sarah. This son was named Isaac. His birth was a miracle, for Abraham was a hundred years old, and Sarah ninety, when Isaac was born. We can imagine how dearly Abraham loved Isaac.

Then a great temptation came to Abraham. The Scripture says, "God did tempt Abraham." This is a good place to learn something about the Bible which we shall often need to remember. The Lord wrote the Bible by means of men, and used in its letter the things that were in their minds. Sometimes their minds could understand what He meant, and then the truth could be expressed clearly. But often their minds contained false ideas which partially hid the truth, just as a cloud hides the sun and yet lets some of its light shine through. Clouds in the Scriptures represent the letter of the Word. You can see how this is. You know that your parents love you dearly all the time. But when you are bent on doing wrong, and their love has to take the form of checking and even of punishing you, you feel that they do not love you. Abraham had been brought up among idol—worshipers who believed that the gods envied them their dearest possessions and could be made happy by the sacrifice of animals and even of children. Abraham loved the Lord and wanted to serve Him wholly. Thus he was prompted to sacrifice the dearest thing he had, which was Isaac. He thought the prompting came from the Lord. His desire did come from the Lord, but the form it took came from his own mind.

Where did they go for the sacrifice?

This is thought to be the very Mount Moriah in Jerusalem where the Temple was built long afterward.

Who went with them?

What beast of burden did they take?

How long did the journey take?

What happened at the foot of the mountain?

What did they take with them up the mountain?

What did Isaac ask his father?

What did Abraham reply?

The Lord was pleased with Abraham's devotion and with his willingness to sacrifice his dearest possession. He let Abraham prove his sincerity by taking the long, three—day journey, climbing the mountain, and even making all the final preparations and raising the knife. Then He showed Abraham that Isaac was to be spared.

What did He provide for the sacrifice?

Abraham had to be allowed to give expression in his own way to his good desire.

Read Micah 6:6-8 and Psalm 51:16-17, and see what the Lord really wants us to do for Him in the way of sacrifice. The word "sacrifice" comes from two Latin words and means "to make sacred." The Lord has made the world and everything in it for our use and enjoyment, but He does want us to sacrifice — that is, to "make sacred" — all that He gives us by using our talents and our possessions in service to Him and to our neighbor. The people of Old Testament days were allowed to sacrifice animals and birds and meal and oil because these things represented good affections and thoughts.

Isaac grew up and became the second great "patriarch" or father of the Hebrews. Abraham knew that Isaac should not be allowed to marry one of the women of the land in which they now lived. So he sent his chief servant to Haran to get a wife for Isaac from among his own people.

Where was Haran?

Who had settled there?

We shall study next the beautiful story of the servant's journey to Haran and of how he was led by the Lord to choose the right woman. He brought back with him Rebekah, the granddaughter of Abraham's brother Nahor, as a wife for Isaac. Ishmael married an Egyptian woman and settled in the wilderness of Paran, and became the father of the Ishmaelites, about whom we read in the Bible and who are probably the ancestors of the Arabs of our time. But Isaac inherited the Holy Land.

