
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Isaac is the name to be remembered by the little children, and they can understand that his father Abraham loved him very much. Tell the story very simply, dwelling on Abraham's desire to serve the Lord even if it meant giving up the dearest thing he had, and dwelling on the Lord's goodness in saving him from making a mistake, and in giving Isaac back to him. Point out that we are often mistaken, even when we mean to do right, and that the Lord always sees our good intention and tries to help us not to make mistakes, because mistakes can do a great deal of harm. Review the meaning of an altar. In addition to the name Isaac, they should be impressed with the name Hebron as Abraham's home, and with Mount Moriah as the place of his sacrifice.

---
After Abram and Lot separated, Abram and his wife Sarai went to live in the southern part of the Holy Land, making their home at a place called Hebron. Abram obeyed the Lord in everything, so that the Lord even changed his name and that of Sarai by putting into each a letter from His own name to show how close they were to Him. This was the letter h. So their names became Abraham and Sarah, and this is the way they are remembered. And finally the Lord gave them the one thing they wanted and did not have — a son. They were both very old when this son was born; so he was all the more dear to them. His name was Isaac. Isaac means "laughter."

But while Isaac was still a young boy, a strange idea came to Abraham. He was so grateful to the Lord that he felt he ought to prove it, and so he decided that the only way really to prove it was to give up to the Lord his very dearest possession.

What was his dearest possession?

In those days people thought that in order to give anything to the Lord they had to kill it and burn it upon an altar.

This was called making a "sacrifice."

Where did Abraham go to sacrifice Isaac?

Try to remember the name of this place, because you will hear of it again. Abraham did not tell Isaac what he was planning to do.

What did Isaac ask him on the way up the mountain?

What did Abraham answer?

When he was about to sacrifice Isaac, who stopped him?

What did the Lord say?

What did Abraham find at hand to sacrifice instead of Isaac?

Abraham was very happy that he was allowed to keep Isaac, and Isaac grew up to be a very great man like his father. We all make mistakes sometimes, but if we are trying to do right, the Lord can help us and keep us from doing real harm. We must remember, however, that He cannot help us unless we are always trying to learn more and more about what is really right from the Word.

