
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The meaning of Isaac is important for young people as well as the difference between Ishmael and Isaac. Point out to them that fundamentalist sects actually make the sacrifice of Isaac — they give up rational thinking — in order to keep their loyalty to the Lord, and that their devotion is to be praised even while we reject their doctrines.

---
In the Scriptures, the birth of a son pictures a new development of truth or a new intellectual faculty. Abraham, we have seen, represents the simple state of obedience of our very early childhood. Abraham's first son, Ishmael, was the son of Hagar the Egyptian servant, and represents our first reasoning power which judges according to appearances and does not take spiritual things into consideration. When we are developing this kind of reason, we are very sure that we are right, and we are impatient with those who differ with us. We like to argue with everybody, and we are scornful of the ideas and advice of older people. We may even make ourselves so disagreeable that people avoid us. This lower reasoning power is a necessary and useful faculty, but it cannot live in the Holy Land: it must be separated from the higher, spiritual reason pictured by Isaac.

Isaac was born when Ishmael was fourteen years old, and he was the son of Sarah, born when Sarah was ninety and Abraham was a hundred. Sarah was Abraham's true wife, and represents the affection for spiritual truth. Ishmael was sent away to live in the wilderness of Paran and married a wife from Egypt, land of memory-knowledges. But Isaac grew up to inherit the Holy Land and to become the second of the Hebrew patriarchs.

The story of Abraham's attempt to sacrifice Isaac has troubled many because in the letter we are told that God tempted Abraham, and that He told him to offer Isaac as a burnt offering.

Does God tempt us? We should realize that much of the letter of the Word is written according to what Swedenborg calls "appearances" of truth. The Lord, in writing the Word, used the minds of men just as they were. Sometimes they could understand His meaning and express it clearly. But often falsities in their minds or evil desires in their hearts clouded the truth or turned it into its opposite. When we are in good states, we can see and understand that the Lord loves us, but when we are bent on going our own way, or when our minds cling to some false idea, even our good impulses, which we know come from the Lord, are turned in our minds to wrong forms of expression. So the letter of the Word took its form according to the states of mind and heart of those through whom the Lord gave it, and sometimes it appears to say opposite things.

Abraham, we remember, was brought up among idolaters who were in the habit of sacrificing animals — and sometimes even their children — in the effort to please and propitiate their gods. So when Abraham was moved to show his complete devotion to the Lord, it seemed to him that he was called upon to sacrifice his dearest possession, his son and heir. This same mistaken idea of sacrifice is not uncommon even among Christians. It appears in the idea that we ought to give up anything we really enjoy, or that anything we like very much is bound to be wrong. The Lord made the world and everything in it for our use and enjoyment, and does not want us to give up anything that is good for us. But He does want us to "sacrifice," that is, to "make sacred," all He gives us by using all things rightly in service to Him and to the neighbor.

In its inner meaning, the story has a very clear application for all of us. A son pictures a new development of truth. Isaac, in particular, represents the "spiritual rational," our higher reasoning power. We like to think of this as our own, and Abraham's prompting to give up Isaac pictures our recognition that our reasoning power, like every other good thing in us, is not really our own, but the Lord's in us. Sometimes people, recognizing this, are tempted to give up trying to reason about religion. This is like killing Isaac. But the Lord does not want this. He has given us our reason to use, and wants us to use it freely, but it should be directed by His truth into the paths of service. Our understanding of how to do the Lord's will has been confused by false ideas and ideals in the world about us; it is like the ram caught in the thicket by the horns. We need to save Isaac alive and sacrifice the ram — that is, to continue to use our reason, but to submit our ideas of what is good and useful to the guidance of the Lord's truth. We have all had the experience of trying to help someone, and finding that we have done more harm than good. Our intention was good, but we lacked the wisdom to carry it out effectively. This is just why we need to develop and use our "spiritual rational" by studying the Word and the teachings of the church, and basing our thoughts and actions on a true knowledge of the Lord and of His purposes.

