
=== Intermediate

These pupils are old enough to be given a clear statement of the origin and mission of the New Church and the need for it in the world of today. The teacher may be able to point out some of the temptations which they face, even at their age, in modern times. Stress the duty of each one of us to be faithful to the Lord and His commandments.

We have studied the general meaning of the holy city New Jerusalem, and the meaning of some of its details as described in the last part of our chapter.

Today let us think of the reason why this holy city, the New Church, had to come down from heaven just when it did, for we learn from Swedenborg that on June 19, 1770, the announcement was made in heaven which heralded the fulfillment of the prophecy given in the first verse of our chapter. So we call June nineteenth "New Church Day."

The letter of the Word has always puzzled people. Yet those who have read the Word for the purpose of learning about the Lord and living as He would have them live have always found shining through its clouds enough light to guide them, as well as the definite and unchanging laws of an orderly life, the ten commandments. This is because the earliest men were simple good people who knew they lived from the Lord and saw everything in nature as the expression of something in Him. With the good, those who chose freely to obey the Lord, this knowledge persisted almost until the time of Abraham, and formed the basis of the Ancient Word, from which the first eleven chapters of Genesis were drawn. But as men began to study and master the world of nature for themselves, they became proud of themselves, forgot about the Lord, and lost the knowledge of the true meaning of the Word. So they became less and less truly wise instead of more and more, until finally those who still wanted to obey the Lord could no longer be sure of the way, and the Lord had to come into the world Himself in a human body — which was called the "Son of God" — to show men the right way to live.

But He knew that even this would not be enough and He promised to come again in a different way, "in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory." We know that everyone did not acknowledge Him in His First Coming. The proud and selfish who wanted to rule the world rejected and crucified Him. Even the first Christian Church, which had started among the good, soon began to break up into separate groups, each seeking to rule. And as men developed more and more worldly knowledge, through science and philosophy, the time finally came when again the good could not hold to their belief in the Word without more understanding. Then the Lord's Second Coming had to be made to give men once more the understanding of the inner meaning of His Word so that the good could not be deceived by those who called themselves wise because of their merely earthly knowledge.

This new understanding of the Word of God in the light of its inner meaning is the holy city New Jerusalem coming down to earth from God out of heaven, forming out of all good men and women a new heaven and a new earth. The mission of the Church called by this name is to help people to find and study and live according to this new light.

We see in our lesson for today that everyone will not accept the new light. There will still be those who are proud of themselves and do not want to be governed by the Lord, but for such people there is no place in heaven. Yet the gates of the holy city are forever open to all who sincerely want to live within its walls, within the boundaries of the teachings of the Lord in His Word, shining like jasper from the light within.

