
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Emphasize the reason for the Second Coming, the need of the modern world for the new knowledge given to this New Church, and the great responsibility resting on everyone exposed to this knowledge.

---
Who had a vision of the holy city?

What was the name of the holy city?

Earlier we have studied some of the details of John's vision of the holy city as they are given in the last part of chapter 21 in the book of Revelation. And we saw that this beautiful city is a picture of a heavenly state in which we may live if we study the truth which the Lord in His Second Coming has revealed to us in His Word in the light of its internal meaning, and try to live as He wants us to live. Today we are celebrating a special day, June nineteenth, which we call "New Church Day" because Swedenborg tells us that on that day in the year 1770 the establishment of the new Christian heaven was proclaimed in the spiritual world, from which the New Church on earth would descend. This is what the first verse of our chapter means.

You all go to school several days of each week. You all know that the things you have been learning in school this year could not have been taught you when you were babies, or even during your first years in school. And you all know that as you go further in school you will learn many more things, things which you would not be able to understand now. It is so with everyone and it was so with the human race. When they were first created, they were simple, innocent people, just as babies are now. The Lord gave them all the knowledge they needed. As the race grew older and people began to think for themselves, He gave them more instruction and of a more complex kind. And, just as it is with men today, those who chose to learn from Him and to do what He said was right became more and more wise, while those who just wanted to have their own way only made trouble for everybody and were unhappy themselves.

When the Lord was in the world He said to His disciples, "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now." Men learned more all the time about the physical world, however, and were finally becoming so proud of themselves and their learning that they would not even listen to the Lord, and the simple good people could not understand the Word well enough to meet their arguments. So finally the Lord came again, not in the flesh, but by showing us the inner meaning of the Word by means of the writings of His chosen servant Emanuel Swedenborg. You have all been blessed in being introduced to this knowledge in your early years. And the Lord has given each of you a great responsibility to study the Bible in the light of this new understanding and to obey the Lord faithfully so that you may lead others to it and may yourselves dwell forever in the holy city.

Now let us reread our Bible lesson and think what it means in this new light. The holy city, as we have seen, is the New Church coming down from God to be established on earth. Those who truly belong to this Church will love the Lord as a true wife loves her husband (Revelation 21:2). The Lord is in this Church as its center (Revelation 21:3). We may now live happy, peaceful lives because we can understand how the Lord rules everything (Revelation 21:4-7). But if we know these things and do not try to obey the Lord, we shall live in hell instead of in heaven (Revelation 21:8). The wall of the city is the letter of the Word, especially that law which He has given to man from the beginning, the ten commandments, but now understood in new light and obeyed from love to the Lord (Revelation 21:9-12).

How many gates did the city have?

What were written on the gates?

