
=== Primary

Review what the pupils have learned about the holy city and speak of our church as a new church in which the Lord Jesus Christ alone is worshiped and love to the Lord as well as love to the neighbor are taught, and where we have given us by the Lord a wonderful new understanding of the Bible.

---
This Sunday we are celebrating "New Church Day." That is because on June nineteenth in the year 1770 the New Church began to come down from heaven to earth. Our chapter tells us about it. John saw it as a beautiful city called the New Jerusalem. What can you tell about it?

Ask your teacher to read the first verse of our chapter for today. This vision is a parable.

What is a parable?

The new heaven and the new earth mean a new understanding of the Lord and of what our life on earth is for.

This new understanding was given to the world two hundred years ago by the Lord by means of a man named Emanuel Swedenborg.

Swedenborg wrote and published it under the guidance of the Lord.

June 19, 1770, was the day on which the new understanding, the holy city, began to come down to earth.

Do you remember where Solomon's temple was set up?

Jerusalem means "place of peace." Do you know what peace is?

It is being loving and happy, not quarreling or scolding, or trying to take things away from other people, not always trying to have our own way. When are you unhappy? Isn't it usually when you are naughty and have to be punished for doing something you have been told not to do? If we are sensible, we shall try harder and harder every day to do right instead of wrong, to try to make other people happy instead of always trying to have our own way. Then we shall have peace — we shall be living in the holy city.

What is the true name of our church?

This is because it is founded on the new understanding which is called the holy city New Jerusalem.

The new understanding is given through a new knowledge of the inner meaning of the Word of God.

We can study this all our lives with ever-increasing light.

This was the Second Coming of the Lord, prophesied in Mark 13:26. The clouds of heaven mean the literal sense of the Word, and the power and great glory mean its internal sense.

