
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is an excellent opportunity to warn our young people of the fallacy of assuming that our modern scientists and philosophers and psychologists are so learned that their pronouncements about the Bible and the spiritual world must be always accepted. Many young people are led astray by this idea.

---
In our study of the holy city we considered in some detail, as a description of the ideal of the Church to which we belong, the pattern of life given by the Lord Himself for this new age in which mankind is making such great strides in earthly science and philosophy. Why do we need this new ideal? It is because men, whenever they make new advances, are tempted to take credit to themselves, to forget that all their power to will, think, and do comes from the Lord and that, if they want to make good use of their achievements, they must look to Him for guidance and live according to His laws. As you go on through high school and college, you will find that there is so much to learn today about this natural world in which we live that you will often be tempted to forget how short our life here is in comparison with eternity; and how much more important is knowledge of the world in which our souls live. We indeed need knowledge of this world because our field of action for the time is here, and the Lord wants us to enjoy this world and to be useful in it. But we need to make sure that what we do from day to day here is not obscuring the higher plane of our minds which connects us with the Lord and with heaven.

So in the middle of our Bible reading for today, in Revelation 21:8, we find a condemnation of those who forget their duty to obey the laws of the Lord. Many people imagine that we can put off thinking about spiritual things until we have achieved what we want in this world, that the Bible is out of date, that it will be time enough to make up our minds about God when we die and find out if there is anything beyond this life. But this is not true. We are forming our eternal character from day to day. What we think and do today affects us and others tomorrow and forever. It is a serious thought, but ordinary common sense tells us it is true. The Lord leaves us free to make our own choices, because if He did not we should be mere animals acting on instinct. But from the very beginning of mankind upon the earth He has given them a progressive revelation of His existence and of His order, so that man would never need to choose blindly.

In our modern age we have more worldly knowledge to study and learn, but we also have more heavenly knowledge to balance and direct it. It will be our own fault if we make the wrong choice and take the road that leads to hell instead of entering one of the gates of the holy city and drinking freely of the "fountain of the water of life."

