
=== Adult

The nature of the Ancient Church with the reason for the separation of the will and the understanding in man is very important. Let it lead into a discussion of the nature of conscience and the fact that it must be developed through constant study of the Word, and must often be corrected.

---
We have seen how the first created people were developed by the Lord into a church — the Most Ancient Church — and how they lived an innocent, happy life led directly by the Lord and caring for the things of this world only as they taught of spiritual things — the state pictured by the Garden of Eden with the tree of life in the midst. Temptation crept in through their desire to be led by themselves instead of by the Lord, and to reason from what their senses told them instead of from what the Lord told them. This turning of their hearts away from the Lord made it impossible for the Lord any longer to teach them through their hearts, and so they lost the perception of truth which they had had and the ability to communicate directly with the spiritual world. They finally came to think only of themselves and of their life in this world, and they used the knowledge of heavenly things which had been handed down to them to excuse and confirm their selfish desires. This is pictured in our lesson today by the marriages between the sons of God and the daughters of men, the sons of God being the heavenly truths handed down to them, and the daughters of men the evil affections which had sprung from their self-love. The result was a race of giants; that is, they became very great in their own eyes and thought of themselves as gods. That this spiritual condition actually worked itself out in material ways we know from the mention of remnants of the giants in later portions of the Scriptures (Numbers 13:33; Deuteronomy 3:11). Goliath of Gath was one of the last of these physical giants. They were giants in body because of their monstrous perversions of heavenly things and exaltation of themselves. These perversions — or falsities — ultimately destroyed them both soul and body, stifling all spiritual life within them and causing them to destroy each other. This is the flood which covered the tops of the mountains — a flood of false persuasions burying all points of approach to the Lord.

In our chapter for today we come to a statement of an apparent truth, when it is said that the Lord repented that He had made man and determined to destroy him. The destruction of the Most Ancient Church was not the work of the Lord, but of the evils and falsities which men had chosen themselves. Nor does the Lord change His mind. He foresees all things and makes provision for them. His love and wisdom are constant, but their working out in human affairs necessarily changes with the changes in men's states. So a father's love for his child does not change, but it cannot express itself in the same way when the child is bent on wrongdoing as when the child is good. When men became so evil that they had closed all ways of approach against the Lord, He permitted them to destroy themselves in order that a new church could spring up and develop among those few who had retained some desire to do right.

Those few among whom the new church could be developed are represented by Noah. They were by no means wholly good; indeed, they were so far perverted that they could not possibly be restored to the original state of the celestial church. The Lord had to take them as they were and provide a new means of approach to them. This is pictured in the building of the ark. It was made of gopher wood. Wood is the symbol of natural goodness - the only goodness that was left in the people of that time — and Swedenborg tells us (@AC 643) that gopher wood is a highly inflammable wood; so it pictures natural goodness full of selfishness. The ark was to be made, as our translation gives it, with "rooms." This pictures a change which the Lord wrought in man's very nature in order to save him. We have seen that the people of the Most Ancient Church were taught through their wills; that is, their thoughts were the direct result of their desires. So long as their inmost desire was to serve the Lord, they could think nothing but what was true; but when their desires became selfish, they could think only what was false. So it was necessary for the Lord to separate man's will from his understanding, in order that his mind could see what was true even when he did not wish to do right; then he could learn the truth and be led to make himself live according to it until he was so confirmed in right action that the Lord could give him a new will. Thus the people of the Ancient Church — as the church described by Noah and his descendants is called — were led to do right by conscience instead of by perception. This separation of the will and the understanding is what is pictured by the ark's being divided into rooms. The three stories picture the three planes of the mind: knowledge, reason, and understanding, comparable to act, thought, and will, through which the man of this church could be led to do right. The window open above pictures the mind open to receive truth from the Lord, and the door in the side, hearing and obedience to the truth. (@AE 651-658) It is by obedience to the commandments that we open the door to the Lord's entrance into our lives (cf. Revelation 3:20). So the ark in every detail is a picture of the character of the people who constituted the remnant from the Most Ancient Church after they had been put into a new order by the Lord so that they might again receive a knowledge of the truth and by obeying it learn to love it. The first church was a celestial church because it was led by love of the Lord in the heart. The second, the Ancient Church, was a spiritual church because it was led by truth from the Lord in the understanding. This newly ordered mind enabled the good remnant to survive the flood of falsity which destroyed the rest of mankind.

But the story has an application to our individual lives as well as to the history of the race. We have compared our infancy to the Garden of Eden state, and we have seen how evil creeps in as soon as we begin to have enough self-consciousness to want to choose our own way. Have we not all seen spoiled children — children who have been allowed to have their own way? Are they not well described by the picture of the giants of old, very great and important in their own estimation, and bending all their efforts and reasoning to the satisfying of their selfish desires, even to the point of violence against those who try to control or thwart them and even sometimes violence toward themselves when they cannot get what they want? Each one of us has an inheritance of evil which, if indulged and confirmed, would lead him to complete spiritual and even physical destruction. But in very early childhood we become conscious of the division which the Lord has provided between our will and our understanding. We are taught what is right and, if our parents are wise, we are made to do it even against our will; and so we gradually form good habits and develop a conscience which helps us to direct our conduct. The life of a little child so taught and directed is also pictured by the story of Noah and the ark. The animals taken into the ark are all his affections, good and bad, which form the basis of his personality and must be dealt with in the course of his regeneration. The flood is the long series of temptations to which his selfish desires and reasonings subject him. Noah and his wife are his recognition of the Lord and his desire to do what is right. Their sons and daughters-in-law are the thoughts and affections which grow out of this recognition and desire. And if he keeps these alive in the ark, the time will come when his ark will rest on the top of the mountain and the flood will subside; he will have acquired fixed habits of right conduct which he is no longer tempted to break; his mind will have come to rest in the Lord's will and he will be ready to go forth to his work in the world in freedom — "freedom is to be led by the Lord."

