
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The most important thing to impress on the young people is that while the story of Noah and the flood is not historical fact, it is nevertheless a true story, a far more important story than if it had been mere historical fact. This lesson should be used to make clear in the minds of the young people the distinction between the terms celestial and spiritual, celestial always having to do with the will or love, and spiritual with the understanding or truth. The correspondence of the ark and its details should be carefully taught.

---
We all know the story of Eve and the serpent. It is a story of disobedience which led to the loss of the beautiful garden of innocent happiness. Eating the forbidden fruit led to great evil. So love of self and trust in self led men further and further from the Lord, until they became so evil that their wickedness was like a great flood, drowning out all spiritual life, all good affections, and all true thoughts, and leading finally to physical self-destruction.

The river in the Garden of Eden represents truth from the Lord, which makes everything live. But when people look to themselves for truth, they find only false ideas, which cause their destruction.

Everyone, however, did not become so bad. Noah and his family picture the people in whom enough good remained so that they could be saved. The ark, in which they were able to ride out the flood, symbolizes the character which they formed by obeying the Lord. It had three stories, the three planes of the mind. It had a window above, meaning that their minds were open to receive light from the Lord. And it had a door in the side, which is a picture of their corning and going in obedience to the Lord's commandments. You remember our Sunday School benediction: "The Lord keep our going out and our coming in, from this time forth and even forevermore. "

But it is also said that the ark had "rooms." This means that now the will and the understanding in man were separated. People were now to be able to keep their thoughts and their desires separate so that even when they wanted to do wrong, their minds could be shown the truth and they could obey it and afterwards learn to love it. So they could be saved. That is the way we are saved, too — by learning what is right and doing it, even when we do not want to. The first people were a "celestial" people: knowledge from the Lord flowed directly into their wills, and they could not think anything they did not also will. This was why, when their wills became selfish, they could no longer receive truth from the Lord. But the people called Noah, the people of the Ancient Church, were a "spiritual" people: truth from the Lord was first received into their understanding, and then, if they obeyed it, could enter their wills.

In working out the meaning of passages in the Word, it is helpful to know the meaning of some of the names used. Often the spiritual background of a story is given in a brief genealogy, and one who does not know the meaning of the names thinks it has no importance and wonders why it is a part of Scripture. The genealogy leading up to Noah is too long to detail here, but in general it pictures successive stages of departure from pure love to the Lord, each stage leading to further perversions, and each succeeding stage being more external than the last.

Noah means "rest," and pictures that point at which the Lord intervened in the downward course of human nature and "shut in" the remaining good qualities from further temptation by closing off the direct contact which men had previously had with the spiritual world.

Noah had three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. These three represent three approaches to the truth which the new state of life possessed. Shem, which means "name," recalls Adam's naming of the animals; he represents the new ability to recognize the quality not of affections but of truths. Ham means "warm." There is an affection for the truth with this church or stage which is further pictured by the gopher wood used in the ark — gopher means "burning," and refers to the trees which contain pitch. Japheth means "extension." When we first begin to explore the realm of truth, our curiosity leads us into wide fields of knowledge. These three abilities were preserved from destruction, together with the affections (the wives) properly related to them, the good affections (animals) which supported them, and the truths (food) which in turn supported both man and beast.

After Noah and his family had entered the ark, it is recorded (Genesis 7:16) that "the Lord shut him in." So in our lives, when we are trying to do what is right, the Lord shuts us in — that is, He provides that we shall not be faced with any temptation which we are not strong enough to fight. Divine providence continues to stand between us and such temptations until the "ark" of our character comes to rest on firm ground where we can establish enough of a foothold to resist temptation. It rained forty days and nights.

