
=== Junior

The Juniors can easily understand the general meaning of this story, the gradual decline once selfishness creeps in, until the whole life is flooded with wrong thoughts. The lesson offers a good chance to point out that everything may have either a good or a bad correspondence because when a good thing is misused, it becomes bad. So water, which pictures truth, can become a destructive flood and picture falsity instead of truth. Have the children look up and read Matthew 7:24-29.

Where were the first people placed by the Lord?

How was the Garden of Eden watered?

What tree was in the midst of the garden?

What other tree was in the garden?

What did the Lord tell Adam and Eve not to do?

You have become familiar with the story of the disobedience of Adam and Eve, the story of Eve's yielding to the temptation of the serpent. After they disobeyed, they did not die physically, but something which had been in them died: the beautiful, innocent state in which they had lived was lost. They were driven out of the garden.

Did you ever do something naughty and have it lead to other things that were worse and worse? Sometimes a boy disobeys his mother and then lies about it and gets angry and even hurts someone rather than own up and say he is sorry. Did you ever think that every thief and murderer was once an innocent baby? How did he become so bad? It wasn't all at once, you may be sure, but little by little. So in the early times, after the Garden of Eden state was closed, people gradually became worse and worse, until most of them were so bad that the Lord could no longer make any impression on their hearts and minds. They could not even think anything but selfish thoughts, and this selfishness and false thinking is pictured in the Bible by a great flood which increased until it drowned them all.

But there were still some good people, and the Lord saved them in a wonderful way.

In the Bible story who is the person whom the Lord saved?

Who were saved with him?

We always think of Noah's ark as a sort of houseboat, don't we?

But that is because it floated on the water. An ark is really just a box or chest, big or little, made to keep something safe. There are two other famous arks mentioned in the Bible. Look up Exodus 2:3 and 25:1O. Noah's ark is a picture of something we can all have to keep us safe from the flood of wrong thoughts and feelings which our natural selfishness brings upon us. This ark is a strong character, built according to the Lord's directions. When you are older, you will be able to understand just what each part of the ark pictures, but first you must fix in your minds the description of it as it is given in our chapter, and this is something you can do now. What was it made of?

Gopher wood was some kind of pine or cedar, containing pitch. How was it made watertight?

How many stories did it have?

What other inside divisions are mentioned?

Where was the door?

Where was the window?

Perhaps even now you can see what the door and window picture. Can you say our Sunday School benediction? As we live with other people in the world, we are always coming in or going out from the house of our character, and we want the Lord to be with our thoughts and acts to keep them always pure and kind. This is the "door" in the side of the ark. And we need to have a "window" in our minds always open toward heaven. That is, we want always to be conscious that the Lord is seeing us and always learning more and more of what He is saying to us in His Word.

Do you know what the birds and animals picture which Noah was told to take with him into the ark? They are all the thoughts and feelings — some good and some bad — which make us what we are.

When everyone was in the ark, who shut them in?

Have you ever watched the people boarding a large airliner at an airport? When everyone is on the plane, someone on the outside closes and bolts the door. Do you know why? It is the only way to be sure that no one can jump or fall out of the plane until it is safely back on the ground. So you can see why the Lord Himself shut the ark.

The size of the ark is given us in cubits. The word cubit first meant a "bending," and so it came to mean the bending in the arm, or the elbow. In the early days, before people learned to measure things with the carefulness that scientists must use today, a man's measuring stick was his own arm. A cubit was the distance from the tips of a man's fingers to his elbow. We may think of a cubit as a little over a foot and a half. Thus the ark is pictured as being more than 450 feet long, 75 feet wide, and 45 feet high. In other words the ark was very large indeed. Be sure, however, to learn its dimensions in cubits — 300 cubits long, 50 cubits wide, and 30 cubits high — because, as you will learn later, numbers in the Bible all have meanings which help us to understand the lessons which the Lord is trying to teach us.

Do you know how many days it rained after Noah entered the ark?

