
=== Notes for Parents

Today we have another of the wonderful symbol stories from the Ancient Word. If we realize its nature and meaning, we do not worry about the size of the ark or about how so many animals could be crowded into it and get along together and have enough to eat for a year (cf. Genesis 7:11, 8:13).

The first people used their freedom to disobey the Lord. The tree of knowledge of good and evil — a symbol of their own desires and reasonings — was more attractive to them than the tree of life. This was the beginning of evil in the world, as it is the beginning of evil in each one of us, when we allow ourselves to think that we know better than the Lord what is good for us. Once we start on that path of reasoning we stray further and further from the right way. The early people eventually became monsters of selfishness.

The flood which destroyed them was not a flood of water but a flood of falsity and evil.

The few who still recognized their need of the Lord and tried to obey Him are pictured by Noah, and the ark in which he and his family rode out the flood is the character he was able to build by obeying the divine commands. Every detail of the story is full of meaning if we have the key. The pitch with which the ark was covered within and without is our natural selfishness which the Lord makes use of to deter us from doing many wrong things. The three stories in the ark are the three planes of our intellect: knowledge, reason, and understanding. The door in the side is our means of receiving from others and giving to others in our daily lives. The window above is our willingness to look to the Lord for guidance and strength. The animals are all our various affections and thoughts.

Your younger children will be interested in this story as a story. The Lord gave it in this form so that it would be read and remembered. But as you read on in the Bible, keep some of this inner meaning in mind, and you will soon realize what a truly wonderful book the Bible is and how much more it has to say to us than we at first suspect.

