
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Seniors will be interested in the fact that the tradition of the Most Ancient Church and the Ancient Church has come down in mythology in the stories of the Golden and Silver Ages, quite rightly named, since gold corresponds to love and silver to truth. Impress upon them the fact that since the time pictured by the story of the flood there has been no return on earth of the celestial state; that is, we never "just naturally" know what is right. Our wills are inherently selfish and we have to learn what is right and make ourselves do it. And we never reach the stage when we know enough. We must be constantly learning more.

---
After men were cast out of the Garden of Eden, they became worse and worse. Once we start on a willful and selfish path, we are liable to stray further and further. You know from reading, if not from experience, how rapidly a boy or girl can drift away from good and orderly habits if he is allowed to go his own way. Every criminal started life as an innocent baby.

The river in the Garden of Eden stands for truth from the Lord. But when men look to themselves for truth, they get only falsity, and this falsity grows until it is a flood which destroys their spiritual life. With the Most Ancient people this destruction resulted in the destruction of physical life also. Swedenborg tells us why in one of the quotations which you will find at the end of this lesson. Even today men sometimes die from the violence of their own passions. So the flood in our story, though symbolic, pictures a very real and terrible time in the history of the human race.

Men, however, were not all evil. Some, although they had lost their first happy state, remained in general obedient to the Lord. These people are represented in the Bible story by Noah and his family. The character which they developed through obedience to the Lord is the ark, in which they were enabled to ride out the terrible period of temptation. Forty signifies fullness of temptation which is about to be overcome; so it rained forty days and forty nights. You remember also the forty years of wandering in the wilderness, and the Lord's forty days of temptation.

Every detail of the ark is significant. It was made of gopher wood, a wood containing pitch. Wood represents natural goodness and pitch selfishness. So these people were partly good and partly bad. The measurements of the ark have a meaning, as all numbers do, but we have not time to go into this detail. Its three stories picture the three planes of the mind; its window above, the fact that the mind was open to instruction by the Lord; its door in the side, the fact that in their daily life their coming and going was regulated by obedience to the Lord: "The Lord keep our going out and our coming in, from this time forth and even forevermore."

Two details are especially interesting. The ark was pitched within and without with pitch, the symbol of self-love. We shall find it as the "slime" in the story of the Tower of Babel, and the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were built in a valley of slime-pits. But the Lord makes even our self-love serve as a protection, if we are trying to obey Him, as we can see if we think how many times we refrain from doing wrong for fear of punishment or of what people will say or think of us, or from hope of reward.

Also the ark was made with "rooms." The earliest people were not "divided" in their minds. The Lord spoke directly to their hearts, and they thought and acted as they felt. So when their hearts became evil, the Lord could no longer reach them, and for the good remnant who survived, it was necessary that He separate the will and the understanding in order that even when their desires were selfish, they could see the truth with their minds and by obeying it learn to love it. Men have been so constructed ever since. We know how often we have to make ourselves do what we know is right even though we do not want to do it.

The animals and birds taken into the ark picture all the affections, both good and evil, which went to make up the character of those people, and the food the ideas which fed those affections. The fact that they were taken in by twos means that they were the affections in which thought had been "married" to will. But we notice in Genesis 7:2 that a distinction was made among the animals, in that seven pair of each "clean" beast were to be saved and only one pair of each unclean beast. In these people the good was stronger than the evil.

The civilization called Adam is known in the New Church as the Most Ancient Church and in mythology as the Golden Age. It was of the affectional or "celestial" type because in it men were led by their affections. The civilization called Noah was of a different type: intellectual or "spiritual," because in it men were led by their thoughts. It was the Ancient Church, or the Silver Age.

