
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AE 205: "By 'David' in the Word the Lord is meant, because by 'kings' in the Word the Lord in respect to Divine truth is represented, and by 'priests' there the Lord in respect to Divine good. The Lord is represented especially by King David, because David had much care of the matters of the church, and also wrote the Psalms.... That David might represent the Lord in respect to Divine truth, the Lord was willing to be born of the house of David, and also to be called 'the Son of David,' 'his Root and Offspring,' also 'the Root of Jesse.' But when the Lord put off the human from the mother, and put on the Human from the Father, which is the Divine Human, He was no longer David's son."

@AC 419: "As celestial things are the holy things of love and the derivative goods, so spiritual things are the truths and goods of faith; for it belongs to faith to understand not only what is true, but also what is good. The knowledges of faith involve both. But to be such as faith teaches is celestial. As faith involves both of these, they are signified by two instruments, the harp [lyre) and the organ [Pan-pipe or syrinx). The harp, as everyone knows, is a stringed instrument, and therefore signifies spiritual truth; but the organ, being intermediate between a stringed instrument and a wind instrument, signifies spiritual good."

@AE 323: " ... the 'harp,' as being confession from spiritual truths. This is signified by 'harps,' because the harp was a stringed instrument, and by such instruments spiritual things, or those that are of truth, are signified, while wind instruments signify celestial things, or those that are of good. Such things are signified by musical instruments because of their sounds, for sound corresponds to the affections; moreover in heaven affections are perceived by sounds; and because there are various affections, and various sounds are produced by musical instruments, therefore these instruments, by correspondence and consequent agreement, signify affections. In general, stringed instruments signify such things as belong to the affections of truth, and wind instruments such as belong to the affections of good; or, what is the same, some instruments belong to the spiritual class, and some to the celestial class ... Because the 'harp' signifies confession from spiritual truths, and spiritual truths are those by which angels who are in the Lord's spiritual kingdom are affected, and which disperse the falsities of evil, and with these the spirits themselves who are in them; so: 'When the evil spirit was upon Saul, David took a harp and played with his hand; and so rest was given to Saul, and the evil spirit departed from him' (1 Samuel 16:23). This was done because kings represented the Lord in respect to the spiritual kingdom, and therefore signified spiritual truths; but Saul then represented the falsities that are opposed to these truths; and these were dispersed by the sound of the harp, because the 'harp' signified the spiritual affection of truth. This then took place because with the sons of Israel all things were representative and thus significative; it is otherwise at this day."

