
=== Junior

Show the class where Bethlehem is on the map and make the connection with the Lord's birth. Read aloud Luke 2:1-4. Review the meaning of anointing. Stress the correspondence of the donkey and the sheep in connection with the first appearance of Saul and of David in the story. Compare Saul and David as to their qualifications for the kingship. Connect David with the book of Psalms.

---
Saul was brave and he meant well, but he was hasty and impatient. He wanted to follow his own judgment instead of doing what Samuel told him to do, although he knew that Samuel was the Lord's prophet. So, although Saul won his first battles, he soon began to lose, and Samuel was sent to tell him that the kingdom would be taken from him.

Now the Lord tells Samuel to anoint a new king. The new king was to be very different from Saul. The Lord said He would choose a man after His own heart (1 Samuel 13:14). David was to be a great warrior also, even greater than Saul, but he had other qualities which Saul did not have.

Where was David's home?

Who else long afterward was born in Bethlehem?

Look up Luke 2:1-4 to see why Joseph and Mary went to Bethlehem. They were both descendants of David. And the Lord was to be called, among other things, "the son of David."

What was Saul doing when Samuel first met him?

What was David doing when Samuel found him?

All the animals in the Bible correspond to — or represent — various affections or "likings" that we have. The donkey pictures the liking for reasoning from the way things seem on the outside. The sheep pictures innocence, which is the desire to depend on the Lord for guidance, so that we may be sure not to do harm to anyone. Suppose you have a chance to beat someone in a game by cheating a little. What difference would it make whether you were "looking for donkeys" or "keeping sheep"? Ask your teacher to help you answer this question.

What happened to David when he was anointed?

What happened to Saul at the same time?

The anointing of David by Samuel was a sign that the Lord's power had been transferred from Saul to David, but David was to have many experiences before the death of Saul would open the way for all the people to recognize him as king. Throughout this time David was loyal to Saul and did all he could to help him, although Saul soon became jealous of David because the people liked him. Saul came to hate David and even tried to kill him more than once. What was the first way in which David helped Saul?

Have you ever seen a harp? It is one of the stringed instruments. [The small Biblical "harp" or lyre should not be confused with the large, intricate instrument used in a modern symphony orchestra. -Editor]

Several musical instruments are mentioned in the Bible, and Swedenborg tells us that they picture different ways of expressing our love for the Lord.

What musical instrument was used in the capture of Jericho?

Is that a stringed instrument?

David was to be the great fighting king of Israel. Under him all the enemies within the Holy Land were conquered and the borders of Israel were extended farther than at any other time. Jerusalem was captured and made the capital of the country, and the ark was brought there and placed in a new tabernacle on Mount Zion. But David was always a musician also. He is called "the sweet psalmist of Israel." Many of the Psalms were given through him. They are called "Psalms of David," but he himself, when he was about to die, said: "The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue." (2 Samuel 23:2)

