
=== Notes for Parents

The story of Saul's reign over Israel teaches us that we cannot rely upon appearances to guide our judgment of what we should and should not do. Saul meant well and he was a strong and eager leader, but he was not wise. Like many young people — and many older ones who have never really grown up — he was in too much of a hurry to get things done and not willing to believe that the Lord really knew better than he did at all times. He recognized Samuel as the Lord's prophet, but he did not pay strict attention to Samuel's instructions and obey them. How hard it is for all of us to obey the simple command, "Rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him"! The Lord always knows the right time and the right way. It is for us to learn and do His will.

1 Samuel 16:7 gives us the key to the difference between Saul and David, not only in the Bible story but in our own lives: "The Lord seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." Every good thing the Lord gives us and also every unwelcome thing He permits to come to us can bring us to a better state of heart if we will use it in the right way.

But deep changes do not take place all at once. Saul remained on the throne for a long time after David was anointed and although, as our chapter tells us, he loved David greatly at first, he later came to hate him and even tried more than once to kill him. When we are young and inexperienced, we form habits of thought and feeling which are very hard to break even after we have acknowledged that other ways are higher and better. All that is selfish in us rises up to oppose the change. But once we see the higher principle, the Lord's spirit "departs from Saul and enters into David," and if we keep trying, the Lord will give us victory in the end.

David had many faults, but he obeyed the voice of the Lord.

Under him all the enemies of Israel were conquered, Jerusalem was taken and the ark of the Lord brought there, and the borders of Israel were extended more widely than ever before. And David was also "the sweet Psalmist of Israel." Many of the Psalms were given through him. And further, when the Lord came into the world, He chose to take on a finite humanity from the line of David and to be born in Bethlehem, the city of David.

