
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The transition from Saul to David is beyond the actual experience even of the Older Teens, but they can understand its meaning, and it will help to prepare them to meet the failure which will inevitably attend many of their early efforts to lead the Christian life as they see it. It may also soften a little the hardness of their early judgments and give them a more sympathetic understanding of the point of view of older people. The correspondence of the harp and its occurrence here will be interesting for discussion. The quotation from the Apocalypse Explained at the end of the lesson gives the basis for this discussion.

---
With every one of us who is developing spiritually the time comes when he sees clearly that he can no longer be satisfied with the rule of his natural reason. He must have a new "king," a deeper and more spiritual understanding of the truth, to direct his life. For we deeply want to "be good." We do not want to do harm, as we are always unintentionally doing when our natural reason is on the throne. This desire to be good, to be led by the Lord instead of by self, is represented by the fact that David, when he was called by Samuel, was tending his father's sheep, just as the character of Saul's kingship was pictured by his search for his father's donkeys. Our own understanding, based on what we see around us in the world, is not enough to lead us against any of our deeper enemies. Like Saul, it is hasty and impatient, and unwilling to acknowledge as evil anything that "looks good." The story of Saul's failures is told especially in chapters 13 and 15.

David's home was in Bethlehem, the "house of bread," which Swedenborg tells us represents "truth from good." That is, the primary desire to be good and to do good enables us to see truth more deeply and so to detect and dispel those deeper evils which the natural reason overlooks or condones. Living under this new principle we shall not, when we face a decision, say, "What will produce the most immediate external results?" but, "What will be really right in the Lord's sight?"

The anointing of David pictures our first recognition that this deeper rational is our true "king." But there is a long way to go before David becomes king in fact. Habits of thought and feeling are hard to change. Saul is still on the throne. The spirit of the Lord has departed from him, but Saul still directs Israel. In the Bible story there is a long struggle ahead between Saul and David. This is characteristic of our period of transition from very young manhood and womanhood to real maturity. We see the true order of life, but the habits of youth cling to us and let go with great reluctance.

In the first realization of the weakness of our natural reason, pictured by Saul's dark moods, we welcome the comfort which the higher reason brings. So David at first became Saul's armor-bearer and soothed him with his harp. But as soon as we begin to see that our natural reason must actually be dethroned and the higher reason become dominant in our lives, all the hells in us rise up and try to destroy the new king. Saul was to make several attempts to kill David. Yet David always helped Saul, and mourned for him when he was killed. Older people look back upon their lives and wish they could have kept their first energy and self-confidence and at the same time gained the wisdom of maturity. But this cannot be. The two states are distinct. One does not develop out of the other. David was not Saul's son. He was not even his younger brother, as Isaac was the younger half—brother of Ishmael. He came of an entirely different line. Each of the two types of rule has its own time and place in our lives.

