
=== Notes for Parents

Against the background of the glorious reign of Solomon this lesson again presents a dark picture. Our states of high attainment do not last. New temptations appear. Success brings its own dangers. To the very end of our lives we need to be on our guard against the subtle attacks of our natural selfishness. Even the best people, especially those who have become very gentle and loving, have the temptation to excuse and then to condone selfish and false things in the people about them. The very first verse in chapter 11 — immediately following the description of Solomon's treasures — begins, "But [only in KJV] king Solomon loved many strange women." The strange or foreign women represent the desires which do not belong in a life devoted to the service of the Lord and the neighbor. We admit these to our minds in a spirit of charity and presently find that we have taken them to our hearts as our own and are acting from them.

So the northern tribes in the land, which picture the intellectual part of our nature, revolted against Solomon's son and set up a separate kingdom. They established the worship of idols, and their history, that of the kingdom called Israel, is one of constant revolt and fighting. Their kings became progressively worse. Under Ahab, their most powerful king, the Lord sent the prophet Elijah to rebuke and warn the people. After three years of drought and famine and the wonderful test at Mount Carmel described in chapter 18, Ahab and the people were convinced of the power of the Lord; but Jezebel, Ahab's evil wife, was enraged and sought to kill Elijah.

In the Bible a prophet always represents the Word of God. When we are forced to admit that the Word of God is telling us the truth about ourselves, everything that is selfish in us rises up, like Jezebel, to try to silence it. Elijah's flight to Horeb, which is Mount Sinai where the commandments were given, is a picture of our discouragement with ourselves at such a time and of how the Lord gently and wisely sustains us and revives our courage so that we may go on. The Lord was not in the wind, the earthquake, and the fire, but in the still small voice which followed them. The Lord does not send our troubles upon us. Our own evils and the evils of others cause them, and the Lord saves us from the consequences as far as it is good for us. But sometimes He has to let us feel these consequences so that we may be impressed enough to listen to the still voice which tells us to take heart and go on trying.

