
=== Adult

The teacher will decide which part of this lesson will be most helpful for discussion with his particular class. For adults who are familiar with the doctrine of the Lord, a brief treatment of the first fourteen verses would be sufficient, and time could be given to the rest of the chapter. For young adults and especially for newcomers the first part of the lesson is the essential topic.

The Gospels give us three accounts of the Lord's Advent. Matthew and Luke are concerned principally with the external events which attended it and with its reception. John deals with its nature and significance. John's whole Gospel is of a different character from the others. He could be inspired to write in this way because of his personal turn of mind. We can see his difference from the other apostles if we compare the Epistles of John with those of Peter, for example. John's letters are full of love and are exhortations to love and trust. In making this comparison, however, we should also note how evident is the difference between the books with an inner sense and those without it. John's Epistles are written in the first person throughout. It is John who speaks. But the writer of the Gospel is nowhere apparent as John, and although we do find the first person occasionally in the book of Revelation, it is never to give us John's thoughts, but only by way of attesting the genuineness of the visions recorded.

The letter of the Word gives us a good many facts concerning the life of the apostle John. He was the son of Zebedee and Salome, and with his brother James was called by the Lord from fishing, immediately after the calling of Peter and Andrew. He was one of the three chosen to witness the transfiguration of the Lord and the miracle of the raising of the daughter of Jairus. He was the beloved disciple who leaned on the Lord's breast at the Last Supper, and the one to whom the Lord entrusted the future care of Mary at the time of the crucifixion. Other records tell us that he remained at Jerusalem for some years after the ascension and then went forth as a missionary, his work being particularly centered about Ephesus. In his extreme old age he was banished to the island of Patmos, where he was given the visions recorded in the book of Revelation. He is thought to have been about twenty-five when he was called, and to have lived to the age of ninety-five. He was perhaps the most devoted, zealous, and spiritual of the Lord's followers.

Much is said in the writings about the correspondence of the apostle John. Peter, James, and John represent "faith, charity, and the good of charity" (@AC 2135). Elsewhere (@AC 6073[3]) John is said to represent "the goods or works of charity," or (in @AE 821[6]) "the church as to good works," or simply (@AC 3934[e]) "good works." But we should note that by "good works" Swedenborg never means mere external benevolences. In @AC 10087[2] the "good of charity" pictured by John is defined as "to do good from willing good," and in @AE 45 we are told that John in the highest sense represents "the Lord as to doctrine." Thus it is evident that for works to be "good" they must be prompted by the Lord's love in the heart and directed by His truth in the mind.

The Gospel of John deals with the Lord's life in its divine rather than in its human aspect — with the coming to view in the world of divine love and wisdom in the person of Jesus Christ. It is largely concerned with the Lord's ministry in Judea, which represents the high plane of the will, and it reports in detail the Lord's intimate teaching to His immediate followers, especially during the last week of His earthly life. We note that in John's Gospel the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday is described in chapter 12, with six chapters between that and the crucifixion story. The Gospel of John records fewer of the miracles than any other and no formal parables, being for the most part a statement of principles applicable particularly to the inner life in its clear recognition of the Lord.

John's account of the Advent is summed up in the statement that "the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us." In @AR 200 Swedenborg says: "All thought, speech, and writing, derives its essence and life from him who thinks, speaks, and writes; the man with his quality is therein; but the Lord alone is in the Word." Our chapter first identifies the Word with God as the creator. This is because divine love creates everything by means of divine wisdom, just as we make and do the things we wish by means of our knowledge and thought. "All things have been created from Divine love by means of Divine wisdom." (@DLove 1) The Word is spoken of as a person because it is the very form of God, in which divine love is expressed. We can express our love, our desires, only by means of our thoughts, and we know that we are our affections and thoughts, and that our bodies are merely the clothing we wear in this world and the means by which we act here.

Next we are told: "In him was life; and the life was the light of men." Divine love is life itself, and divine wisdom is the light of that love, just as the light of the natural world is from the natural sun, which is pure fire. So we are taught that the Lord is the source of all genuine enlightenment, that this light is meant for all, and that if people do not see it, it is only because they do not want to see. In John 3:19 the Lord tells Nicodemus: "And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." The scribes and Pharisees had overlaid the Scriptures with a body of regulations calculated to exalt themselves, thus making the commandment of God of none effect by their tradition (Matthew 15:6). They rejected the Lord because He swept away these traditions and lived and spoke the Word in its purity, condemning their selfishness, arrogance, and hypocrisy. We become "sons of God" when we receive Him, because He then becomes the source of all our affections and thoughts. If we do not receive Him, we live in darkness and are a part of that world which knew Him not although it was made by Him.

Our chapter carries us on to the witness of John the Baptist and the calling of the first disciples, but again in a different way from the other Gospels. The actual baptism of the Lord by John is not mentioned, but the sign of the dove is part of John's testimony to the deity of the Lord. And in connection with this testimony we are given a fact recorded nowhere else — that Andrew was a disciple of John the Baptist and was brought by him to recognize the Lord and that Peter was led to the Lord by Andrew, and this before they were both called from their nets to devote themselves to His service. Peter represents faith and Andrew obedience. John's message of repentance leads to obedience and this in turn to recognition of the Lord and faith in Him.

The name Nathanael does not appear in any of the lists of the twelve apostles, but it is generally believed to have been the given name of Bartholomew - "the son of Tolmai" — who follows Philip in all the lists.

Note how the last verse of our chapter ties in with the first. It is a reminder of Jacob's ladder, which as we recall is a picture of the Word, by means of which we have conjunction with the Lord. Here again the Lord is identified with the Word. Later the Lord said (John 14:6): "I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me." This was just before He told Philip: "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?"

