
=== Notes for Parents

We should realize how closely the Old Testament and the New Testament are connected and how impossible it is to understand the New without knowing the Old. The attitude of Jonah toward the people of Nineveh continued to be the attitude of the religious leaders. They were proud of themselves and despised others and wanted to keep as a bit of personal property the inspired Scriptures which had been entrusted to them to teach to all the world. During the hundreds of years which followed the time of Jonah, the priests and scribes added to the Scriptures a great body of rules and regulations designed to minister to their own importance, so that finally not only the Gentiles but even the simple good people among the Jews could no longer find out what the Scriptures really taught. The world had come into spiritual darkness. This was why the Lord Himself finally had to come into the world to live out the divine truth which was in the Word and bring light to the souls of men. Those who did not want to change their lives rejected Him, but those who really wanted to know how to live received Him gladly.

The Gospel of John is different from the other three Gospels because it tells us less of the outer story of the Lord's life and more of its deeper meaning. For instance, in this chapter instead of the familiar Christmas story we are told that it was God Himself who came into the world in Jesus Christ, the same God who made the world, and the same God who dwells within the inspired Scriptures, which He dictated. John the Baptist in our chapter calls Jesus "the Son of God" and while He was living in the human body He took on through Mary, He was often called the Son of God and He referred to God as His Father. But as little by little He put off the assumed humanity through overcoming its evils, He began to speak of Himself as one with the Father. He said, "I and my Father are one," and, "Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me?" And when Philip said, "Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us," Jesus answered, "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." This is what John is telling us in our chapter. Jesus Christ is the one God of heaven and earth.

