
=== Senior

In the Senior notes the effort has been made to cover the whole chapter in a balanced way. It is a strictly doctrinal lesson, but the Seniors should be studying doctrine seriously.

The Gospel of John is quite different from the other Gospels.

John among the apostles represents the good or works of charity. He was the fourth of the apostles to be called, the first three - Peter, Andrew, and James — representing faith, obedience, and charity. This is the order of regeneration. We must first learn and believe the truth, then obey it, then come to love it, and finally reach the state in which we act from charity in the heart instead of in mere obedience to the truth. It is this final state of unselfish love in the heart which is wisdom, and the Lord can flow into it with enlightenment. So John's Gospel is concerned with spiritual realities rather than with externals. Even the three Epistles of John (which do not have an inner meaning) are different from the rest of the Epistles in that they are throughout concerned with love. John was called "the beloved disciple."

Our chapter divides itself into three sections. The first is the spiritual story of the Incarnation, giving us not the external details of the Lord's birth but the statement of just who He was and why He came into the world. He was the Word made flesh, and the Word was in the beginning with God and was God. When we use words, we say we are "expressing ourselves." [The translation of Phillips renders John 1:1, "At the beginning, God expressed himself." -Editor] We ourselves are in the words — our thoughts, and behind them our feelings. Swedenborg tells us that a person is his affections and thoughts. His body with all its activities is merely the form in which he expresses himself in the world. When we wish to communicate something to a friend, we either write to him or speak to him. The inspired Scriptures are the written expression of divine truth — the written Word. The Lord in His Incarnation was the expression of the same divine truth in a physical human form — the Word made flesh. The Lord said He came to fulfill the Law and the Prophets, and He did so by living out divine truth before the eyes of men.

And the Lord came to be the light of the world. The people of the world were living in spiritual darkness because the Old Testament Scriptures, through which alone divine truth could be learned, had been so overlaid by the scribes and Pharisees with their own interpretations and additions that people no longer knew what was Scripture and what was not. The Lord Himself as divine truth had to come into the world to restore the Scriptures to their purity. A few received Him gladly — those who truly wanted to know what was right so that they might do it. The great majority rejected Him because they had no desire to give up their selfish ways. Read John 3:18-21.

The second section of our chapter is concerned with the testimony of John the Baptist. Again the actual baptism of the Lord is not mentioned, but the sign of the dove — which we know was given at the time of the Lord's baptism by John — is included in John's assurance that Jesus is the Son of God. Swedenborg tells us that while the Lord was in the world, His visible humanity was called the Son of God to distinguish it from the Father within, but that in general the Father signifies divine love, the Son the divine wisdom, and the Holy Spirit the divine proceeding or activity. Will, thought, and act in us are analogous to these.

The third section of our chapter tells of the calling of some of the disciples. Here, too, the account differs from those of the other Gospels. We are familiar with the account in the fourth chapter of Matthew of the Lord's calling Peter and Andrew and James and John to leave their nets and follow Him. Here we learn that Andrew had been a disciple of John the Baptist and that he had talked with the Lord and had brought his brother Peter to Him before they were called to follow Him. Regeneration must be preceded by reformation, as the wilderness journey preceded the entrance into the Holy Land. In the Gospels this necessary stage of reformation is represented by the preaching of John the Baptist, whose cry was, "Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." So we can understand why Andrew — who represents obedience - was a disciple of John and was the first of the twelve apostles to recognize the Lord.

Nathanael, whom Philip brought to the Lord, does not appear by that name in the various lists of the twelve, but he is assumed to be the one called Bartholomew who always comes after Philip in the lists. Bartholomew means "son of Tolmai," Bar meaning "son." Peter is called Simon Bar-jona in Matthew 16:17, and we find him also called Simon the son of Jona in verse 42 of our chapter. So the disciple next after Philip may well have been Nathanael the son of Tolmai.

We should notice also the last verse of our chapter. You remember Jacob's dream of the ladder (Genesis 28:12) reaching from earth to heaven with the angels of God ascending and descending upon it. This ladder represented the Word as our means of conjunction with the Lord and the angels. Now we find the Lord saying the same thing of Himself. So this verse sums up the teaching of the whole chapter that the Lord was the Word made flesh.

