
=== Junior

The class will be interested to know that the Advent took place at least eleven centuries after the time of the Judges. Call attention to the fact that in the Lord's time the Holy Land had come to be divided into three parts, and on a map point out Nazareth and Bethlehem. The Juniors should remember the story of the Wise Men and also something about John the Baptist, so that a more general picture of the Advent can be discussed. They are old enough to get some idea of why the Lord came.

What great event was often prophesied in the Old Testament?

Who was born to prepare the way of the Lord?

How did he prepare it?

We celebrate Christmas because it is the birthday of the Lord Himself into the world. In Matthew 1:23 we are told that the baby was to be called Immanuel, which means "God with us." He came as a little baby and grew up as we do, so that He could feel all the weaknesses and temptations that come to us in our everyday life and show us how to recognize and overcome them. This is what makes Him our savior. We can be saved from the power of the evils that are within us if we will learn of the Lord and with His help fight against them. The name Jesus means "Jehovah saves": Christ means "the anointed one. " Anointing with olive oil pictures consecration by love. Think how much Jehovah must love mankind to have been willing to come down and live among us just to show us the way to happiness. What this has meant to the world is shown by the fact that long afterward the calendar was changed so that its years are counted backward and forward from the Lord's birth. 

Where was the Lord born?

Where was Mary's home?

Why did Mary and Joseph come to Bethlehem?

Why was the Lord born in a stable?

There are two stories about the Lord's birth which we all know well. In the second chapter of Matthew is the story of the Wise Men, who lived a long way from the Holy Land. Do you remember how they learned of the Lord's birth? They knew what the star meant because they had cherished the prophecies of the Ancient Word. They picture all people who really love to know the truth and are willing to live according to it when they find it. Some people say they love the truth, but they close their ears to any truth they do not like. The Pharisees were such people. People are really wise only when they do what truth teaches.

In our chapter for today we have the story of the shepherds. In the Word we read a great deal about shepherds, and the Lord Himself is called our shepherd. The shepherds of the Holy Land lived with their flocks, leading them from place to place to find pasture, keeping them safely in folds at night, and defending them from fierce animals even at the risk of their own lives. They knew their sheep by name and the sheep knew the voice of their own shepherd and came when he called. Sheep are gentle, harmless animals. They picture trustfulness and innocence; the word innocent comes from a Latin word meaning "not harming." People who love and cherish innocence and trust are shepherds, spiritually speaking. They may not have much knowledge of the truth, but they are close to the Lord in heart. To the shepherds in the fields of Bethlehem tending their flock on the night when the Lord was born the light which broke upon the world at His birth was not a distant star but an opening of the very heavens above them. They saw the angels and heard the glad tidings, and they did not have to go a long way to find the Lord. But we must notice that both the Wise Men and the shepherds believed at once and did go to find the Lord. This is one of the requirements of all who would be Christians: willingness to believe and readiness to act on our belief. What message did the heavenly host have for the world?

This message expresses what is in the heart of everyone in heaven and what must be in the heart of every truly good person on earth: worship of the Lord and the desire to help and serve all those around him. This is later expressed by the Lord in the two great commandments: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind ... And ... Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." (Matthew 22:35-40) So the angels were expressing the sphere of heaven, which the Lord had come to make possible for men on earth.

What did the shepherds do after the angel message?

Where did they find the Lord?

Whom did they tell about Him?

Who remembered all they told?

