
=== Senior

The important lesson for this class is in the states of mind in us which are receptive of the Lord's entrance into our lives, as contrasted with the states which bar His entrance. The message of the heavenly host and the two kinds of people who were told of the Lord's birth gives us the picture we need.

When we realize that the Advent of the Lord, obscure as it seemed at the time, had such an effect on history that the calendar was changed to make it the central point, we wonder how anyone can imagine that He was a mere man. Yet many do so imagine.

The familiar stories of the Lord's birth picture clearly the conditions necessary to recognition of the Lord. First we must either, like the Wise Men, love and cherish truth, or we must, like the shepherds, cherish innocence and trust. In either case, we must be willing to believe and willing to act on our belief, no matter what personal sacrifices are involved.

You have perhaps heard people say, "Your belief is beautiful; I wish I could believe as you do." You might answer, "Do you really wish that? Do you wish it enough to study the grounds for our belief and, if you find them to be sound, to change your life accordingly?" This is the real test. Belief is primarily a matter of the will.

John the Baptist was sent before the Lord to prepare His way.

John the Baptist and his message picture the necessity of genuine self-searching and repentance as a preliminary to reception of the Lord. If we study the individuals to whom the announcement of the Lord's birth was made — Mary and Joseph, Zacharias and Elisabeth, the shepherds and the Wise Men, Simeon and Anna — we see that they were all looking for the Lord, open—minded to the Gospel, and ready to manifest their belief. We have to choose to believe, to be open to the reception of new truth. If instead we choose to close our minds to anything which upsets our accepted way of life, the Lord knocks at our door in vain.

Swedenborg tells us that the angels are very careful not to interfere with this freedom of ours. The message "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men" was spoken by permission and is a beautiful expression of the sphere of heaven. It makes us think of the petition in the Lord's Prayer, "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done as in heaven so upon the earth." If the Lord is truly glorified in the heart, there will be innocence and good will in the outward life. Peace is the outcome of innocence — harmlessness — and good will. The Lord is called a lamb and also the prince of peace. His spirit, received in the heart, is what leads to peace, whether in the individual life or in the life of the world. Apart from it, no external measures will bring peace.

Notice that, while the Lord was born in Bethlehem of Judea, He was brought up in Nazareth of Galilee. Here again is the same sequence, for Judea represents the plane of the will and Galilee the plane of the outer life. Between the two lay Samaria, which represents the plane of the understanding, the thought which connects will and act. We remember that during His ministry on earth most of the Lord's work was done in Galilee, but that He went up to Jerusalem periodically for the feasts, and that both going to Jerusalem and coming from it "he must needs pass through Samaria." This is a picture of what our lives should be. We begin with a desire to serve the Lord, but our good intention is not enough. We must work this intention out in active service in our outward life, and we do so by means of study and thought. What we meet in our experience in the world should lead us to go back often to a state of worship for renewal of our will to do good; and our worship, to be effective, must be the climax of a period of meditation.

The Lord came into the world on the first Christmas day in order to meet and overcome the evils which were growing so strong that even those who longed for goodness could not fight against them. He came to restore to men a true knowledge of Himself and to be our example in all things. He came as the savior of the world, but He can save each one of us only as we learn of Him and seek to follow His example, recognizing and fighting our evils in His strength. He endowed mankind with rationality and freedom of choice, which alone make us human beings instead of animals, and He cannot save any one of us against his will.

