
=== Adult

Since most of us are inclined to ignore the Minor Prophets, except perhaps for the story of Jonah and certain clear and well—known verses in the others, the point to be stressed is that there is no part of the Word which does not have a message for us if we are willing to study it, using the means which the Lord has provided in His Second Coming. The book of Joel can be used to show how much practical help is in these books for us.

The last twelve books in the Old Testament are known as the Minor Prophets. Of these books William Hayden in Our Heavenly Father's Book says:

[They] are placed in the Hebrew canon as one volume, or book, being written on a single roll or manuscript. This was done for convenience, on account of their brevity; the whole amounting to little more than the contents of a single book of some of the larger prophets, as Isaiah or Ezekiel. Neither the nature of their contents nor the date of the writings furnish a reason for their being classed together. The earliest one probably belongs to the time of Uzziah, eight hundred years B.C.; while the last one may be placed as late as Nehemiah, or 433 B.C. Nor are we certain that the order in which they are placed in our Bible is the exact chronological order in which those prophets lived and wrote, although it is very nearly the same.

Scholars have spent much time and effort on the study of these books, but for the most part their object is to place the books historically, trying to relate the literal statements to specific events in the history of Judah and Israel. Yet simple, devout Bible readers have always found some passages at least directly and clearly meaningful, and we find many verses from these twelve books quoted with effect in our older literature.

In the New Church we know that there is no part of the Word of God which does not have a universal and timeless application. Many prophets, true prophets, have spoken for the Lord to the people of their time "since the world began," and their names passed out of remembrance when their particular mission was over. But it was not so with the prophets through whom the Word was given. Their message was not to their times alone. If we read any one of the Minor Prophets with a general knowledge of correspondence and a sincere desire for instruction, we shall be rewarded beyond our expectation. We are taking the book of Joel as an example in our lesson today. His book is short — only three chapters — and is one of those which contains no definite statement which places it historically. Hayden says of Joel:

Joel, a name formed by contraction from the two Divine names, Jehovah and Elohim, has been by some interpreted to mean the worshipper of God. He was a prophet of the Lord. His birthplace is unknown. He was the son of Pethuel, and lived in Judah, and delivered his prophecy in or near Jerusalem. From all that can be learned, most commentators agree in placing him in the reign of Uzziah, King of Judah, about 800 B.C., thus making him in part a contemporary of the three prophets, Isaiah, Hosea, and Amos. His book is a single continuous prophecy. Under the figure of an army of locusts, and other destructive insects soon to invade the land, devouring every green thing and leaving the country desolate, he describes the moral desolation of the times, picturing the evil and false things which, creeping into the hearts and minds of men, consume all their good dispositions and true thoughts, leaving only a spiritual waste in the nominal Church. There is an exhortation to repentance, and an assurance that the Lord will come and execute a judgment on all wicked men who thus desolate and destroy the Church, and that He will some day restore genuine fertility by establishing a new Church. It is declared to be a "Word of the Lord" spoken to the prophet from the unseen world. As such, it is quoted in the New Testament. See Acts 2:16, Romans 10:13. Its place in the canon has never been called in question.

Even this brief summary of the superficial meaning of the book immediately suggests its application to our own lives, if we remember that the condition of the church in the world is such as is its condition in the individuals who compose it. Each one of us is a church in least form. How far is each one of us allowing the palmerworm, the locust, the cankerworm, and the caterpillar to work within him, eating up the good in his heart as fast as it develops and closing his mind against the rain of truth from heaven? We all know, for instance, how a sense of injury — often based on misunderstanding and quite unwarranted — can build up in the mind a barrier between former friends and, feeding on trifles, can, like the swarms of locusts, shut out the sun from the life. How impossible it is to argue with one in such a state! His mind is closed to any truth which would show him his own folly. We know how a bit of idle gossip or a malicious remark, if allowed to go unchallenged, can work in the mind of the bearer as well as of its author and destroy kindness and clear judgment. We do not have to look outside of our own minds and hearts to find this army of destroying insects.

Joel points out the desolation which results and also points out that we may at any time, if we will, check such an unhappy trend in ourselves by turning to the Lord for correction and help, because the Lord is always at hand. The beautiful promise in Joel 2:23-27 is spoken to each one who will examine himself, recognize his own faults, and fight against them in the Lord's strength.

The particular assignment which is our reading for today is the culmination of Joel's whole message. It is an urgent and immediate call to arms against the evils which are at work in us. The "day of the Lord" in the letter refers to the coming of the Messiah and its result for the ancient Jewish Church. We should note that the Apostle Peter considered this prophecy of Joel fulfilled on the day of Pentecost (Acts 2:16-21). But all the Messianic prophecies have a personal as well as a general meaning. Just as there is a time in the life of every regenerating individual when the Lord was born in his life, so there is a time when a final judgment takes place. It is the day when the seed which we have been developing in this earthly life is fully formed and falls to the ground, the day of our passing out of this world into the spiritual world. In @AC 10596 Swedenborg says: "The life of man after death is the life of his love, and the life of his faith; consequently such as has been his love, and such as has been his faith, during his life in the world, such his life remains forever. The life of hell is for those who have loved themselves and the world above all things; and the life of heaven for those who have loved God above all things and the neighbor as themselves. These are they who have faith; but the former are they who have not faith. The life of heaven is what is called eternal life; and the life of hell is what is called spiritual death." This is a very straightforward and plain putting of the case as it is, and it should make us think very soberly. This world is the place where we make our choice. Our life here is given us for that purpose. And what Joel is pointing out to us is that we cannot keep putting off our choice. It is made from day to day and from moment to moment. "Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision." What we choose today is of vital importance to us. The moment of decision is always now.

The Lord says the same thing many times in the Scriptures in one way or another, notably in Matthew 24:42-51, in all the parables of the Judgment in Matthew 25, and in Mark 13:32-37, in which we find the words, "Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the morning: Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch."

