
=== Primary

Spend part of the time showing the children the twelve books of the Minor Prophets in the Bible, reading the names, and calling attention to the length. Read the first verse of a book whenever it includes, "The word of the Lord came," or, "The vision," in order to impress upon the children the fact of revelation. Have them learn the names Hosea, Malachi, and Joel. Then follow the outline given in their notes and questions.

We have learned that there were four prophets called the "Major Prophets": Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. Each one of these four is a long book in our Bible. Ask someone to show you where these books are in the Bible, and see how long they are.

In addition to the four Major Prophets there were twelve Minor Prophets. Their books were so short that all twelve could be written on one scroll.

They are the last twelve books of the Old Testament.

Read their names in the Bible and then see how many you can remember. Try to remember at least the first and the last.

You can also easily remember Joel, from whose book our lesson for today is taken.

How many chapters are there in the book of Joel?

What is the very first verse of the first chapter?

You see, Joel, like Ezekiel, said that his words were given him by the Lord. He pointed out the sad state into which the people of Judah had fallen. Next he warned them of the disaster that was to come.

He told them to fight against their evils.

Finally he prophesied that the Lord would spare the good and would someday restore His church.

Now let us read verse 14. Multitudes means "a great many people," and decision means "making up one's mind about what to do." Can you guess what the "valley of decision" is? It is just where everyone of us is every time we are trying to decide whether to do right or wrong; and the Lord is very near us then, trying to help us to decide to do right.

The valley of decision is the life we live every day here on earth.

Almost every hour of the day we have a decision to make between right and wrong.

The Lord is always near us trying to help us decide to do right. Remember this whenever you feel like being naughty.

