
=== Senior

More should be done in this class with the nature and purpose of the books of the Prophets, pointing out especially the fact that their message is timeless and universal. The teacher should be familiar with all three chapters of Joel and be able to use this book as an example throughout the lesson period.

Now we pass to the Minor Prophets. They are called "Minor" because their books are short. All twelve were written on one scroll, whereas each of the books of the Major Prophets needed a whole scroll. Several of the books of the Minor Prophets are records of only one vision or message. They all claim to be revelation: in most of them the very first verse contains the words, "The word of the Lord came," or, "The vision which came." They are all accepted as inspired in the Jewish canon of Scripture as well as in ours.

In some of these books the historical place of the prophet is specifically stated, but in several it is not, and scholars have spent much time and effort in trying to place these, and have differed and still differ in their conclusions. Study of the text of Scripture is interesting and useful, but scholars may be wrong. They are handicapped by the fact that they assume the prophecy to be limited in its statements to things which the prophet himself has witnessed, rejecting the implications of inspiration. For example, Joel speaks of a plague of destructive insects and a drought, and the attention of the scholars is directed toward finding out when in history such physical conditions prevailed. But we know that the conditions which Joel describes are pictures of spiritual conditions which may be present at any time in the life of the individual or of the world. So it does not really matter particularly just when Joel lived or just what his message meant to the people of his day.

We have noted before that all the prophets had the same function: to point out the evils in the heart and the falsities in the mind, to warn of the inevitable results of persistence in the wrong course, and at the same time to assure the good of the Lord's constant presence and protection, and to promise them eternal happiness if they remained faithful through their trials and temptations. We know that from the beginning there were prophets (Luke 1:70), many prophets of whose names and messages no record has been preserved. We may assume that the message of these unremembered prophets was specifically to the people of their own nation and time. But the prophecies which, under divine providence, have been preserved in the Word are shown by that very fact to have been spoken by the Lord to all men in all times. It is not their meaning for the ancient Jews which we should look for, but their meaning for us.

Swedenborg tells us that anyone who reads the Bible reverently, believing it to be the Word of God and desiring to find in it the truth which will show him how to live rightly, receives enlightenment from the Lord to the extent of his ability and need. This has proved true throughout the history of the Christian Church. In the Minor Prophets, for example, devout men have always found many verses, such as Micah 6:8, which even in the letter were clear directives for life, and they have also found some verses, such as Joel 2:25, in which the inner meaning shone through the letter so clearly that they have brought comfort and strength. Our early American literature is especially full of references to the Minor Prophets.

But it is only the knowledge of the law of correspondence, revealed by the Lord in His Second Coming, which "opens" these books and makes every verse applicable to our daily lives. In Revelation 10:7 it is prophesied that one day "the mystery of God should be finished." That day came when the Lord opened the Word. This does not mean that if we know the law of correspondence, every verse in the Minor Prophets will be clear to us as soon as we read it. In order really to understand the inner meaning of any verse in Scripture we not only have to study but we have to have reached the point in our regeneration at which that particular verse will be accepted by us and used for further progress. But with even a little honest study we can know the general meaning throughout, and we need such knowledge for our daily life and as a preparation for experiences yet to come.

So, for example, we can see in the book of Joel the teaching that the little selfish desires and wrong thoughts to which we yield day by day are like an army of destroying insects coming across a fruitful land. They eat up the good things that are developing in us and they keep our minds closed against the truth we should be receiving, causing spiritual drought. We see people in our communities, and in the newspapers we read about others, who have gone far astray into degenerate living and crime, and we sometimes wonder how they could have reached such a state. Read Joel 1:8-13 and see how it expresses their condition and the feeling people have about them. None of them came into that state all at once; it was little by little, day by day, as they let the destroying thoughts and feelings control their minds and hearts.

In the second chapter Joel speaks of the coming of the "day of the Lord." This pictures the time when our opportunity to change our life is over, when we have made ourselves the kind of people we shall be to eternity. For the evil it is a terrible and tragic day. Even for the good it is a day in which they realize how many opportunities they have wasted and how far short they are of what they ought to be; but since they recognize their weakness and need and look to the Lord, there is the beautiful promise in verses 18 to 27, teaching that the Lord will spare them and bring them into heavenly happiness.

Then follows chapter 3, in which the two states — that of the evil and that of the good — are summed up and shown in clear contrast, and we are presented with the choice and taught that we are making our choices now, every day of our lives as we resist our little everyday temptations or yield to them. The case in which we all find ourselves during our lives in this world is pictured for us in verse 14, which we should learn and think about often: "Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision."

