
=== Adult

After the introductory statement concerning the Bible, and the brief review of chapter 1, the teacher should touch on the meaning of the seventh day in the internal historical sense and in the spiritual sense, and then go on to a discussion of the use of the sabbath. It may be well to mention the reason why we observe Sunday instead of Saturday (see Junior notes) especially if there are young adults in the class. The rest of the discussion may well be based on the Lord's use of the sabbath, and the teacher should be familiar with the Gospel passages cited in the Junior notes and with their context.

Every time we reread the story of creation, with which our Bible begins, we are more impressed with its scope and importance. From the letter alone we receive the fundamental teachings that everything with which we are familiar was created by the Lord, that there is a Divine order in the universe, that man is not merely a higher animal but a creature with heavenly possibilities, that man has the responsibility of controlling and using rightly all the lower forms of creation, and that the ideal state to which he should look forward is one of heavenly peace and happiness. In the Creation story nothing appears which is not good and useful. "And God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good." The Lord is the Source of all good and nothing but good proceeds from Him.

When we read this story with a knowledge of its spiritual sense, it is still more impressive. Everything that is in man's soul appears here in its original orderly form. Throughout it is the story of the formation of man — as a race and as an individual — into the image and likeness of God, his highest possible attainment.

In the three previous lessons we have considered the first six days of creation in some detail, and we now center our attention on the seventh day.

Limiting our thought for the moment to the letter, we rightly think of Genesis 2:2-3 as the Divine institution of the sabbath day. The commandment regarding the sabbath given through Moses from Sinai was not a new commandment. The sabbath was a part of the order of the Most Ancient Church. The Lord, who made man, knew man's needs. Even physically we need one day out of seven of rest and change from our regular work. Our minds need this same rest and change. And above all spiritually we need one day in seven in which we may lift our thoughts above our worldly concerns and renew our inner strength through worship, instruction, and meditation.

In this simple statement of the Divine ordination of the sabbath there is nothing harsh — nothing suggestive of prohibition: "And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made." If we developed in an orderly way as children of our Heavenly Father, we should have no problems concerning the sabbath. We should, as Isaiah suggests (58:13), "call the sabbath a delight." The reason why the breaking and profaning of the sabbath is connected with such severe denunciation later in the Word is that men departed from their true order and that without the regular observance of the sabbath men become immersed in worldliness and selfishness, lose their touch with God, and die spiritually. Our Puritan forefathers were mistaken in making the sabbath a hard and burdensome day, just as the Pharisees were mistaken in adding their own interpretations to the simple law. We recall how many times in the Gospel story the Pharisees accused the Lord of breaking the sabbath and how He told them that He Himself was Lord of the sabbath. He gave us our example specifically in attending the synagogue on the sabbath day, teaching, healing, and walking with his disciples, and He summed up the law in the simple statement (Matthew 12:12): "It is lawful to do good on the sabbath."

Turning to the inner meaning of our lesson, we find this in @AC 83, 84: "The 'heavens and earth and all the army of them' are said to be 'finished,' when man has become the 'sixth day,' for then faith and love make a one. When they do this, love, and not faith, or in other words the celestial principle, and not the spiritual, begins to be the principal, and this is to be a celestial man .... The celestial man is the 'seventh day,' which, as the Lord has worked during the six days, is called 'His work'; and as all combat then ceases, the Lord is said to 'rest from all His work.'"

The Most Ancient Church, whose development is described in the internal historical sense of our lesson, was a celestial church, in which love to the Lord ruled in the heart and truth could be given by perception — in an internal rather than in an external way. We forget sometimes that this first church had to be developed — that even the first men had to grow into it through the various stages pictured in the Creation story, and had to become spiritual men before they became celestial.

In its application to our own regeneration this is also true.

Although it is certainly possible for us, if we are faithful, to attain the celestial degree, we do not attain it before the end of our life in this world. But we all may have foretastes of it. For example, whenever we recognize a particular evil in ourselves, fight it with the Lord's help, and reach the point where it no longer has any appeal for us, we have — with regard to that particular evil — reached the sabbath of rest. But as long as we are in this world there are always further evils in us to recognize and fight. And we recognize and fight these only if we are constantly trying to learn new truth from the Word. In this world we never reach a state in which the knowledge of what is right comes to us by an internal way. The Writings are very clear on this point. Our conscience is never a perfect guide. It must be continually corrected, educated, and developed throughout our lives here. Without this process we make no spiritual progress and never attain the true sabbath of rest.

This rest of the sabbath is not idleness. It is rest from struggle with temptation. It is said that the Lord blessed and sanctified the seventh day, that is, pronounced it happy and holy. We know that happiness comes only from forgetting self, and that only as we learn about the Lord and seek to serve Him and the neighbor is it possible for us to make a place in our hearts for the influx of His unselfish love. If we regularly use the sabbath for worship, instruction, and unselfish service, we shall find it our best aid in attaining the celestial state of rest. Let us use it to "do good" and make it a happy and a holy day.

