
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this lesson our discussion of the spiritual sense has been general and we have suggested no additions to the basic correspondences for this class. Instead, the meaning of the terms natural, spiritual, and celestial should be stressed as a basis for later lessons. The progression may be illustrated by citing the formation of any good habit — from the first natural resistance, through enforced practice, to the time when the good habit has become involuntary. So far as this particular good thing is concerned you have reached the celestial state or sabbath rest. The Younger Teens are still young enough to need also the teaching concerning the proper use of Sunday.

---
In the literal Creation story the essential things to remember are that God created all things and that He created them gradually according to a certain order; that heaven and earth were the first creations and that the giving of light led to all that followed; that although grass and fruit trees began to appear as soon as the waters were gathered into seas leaving the dry land, it was not until after the appearance of the sun, moon, and stars that living creatures were created; that the order of the creation of living creatures was fish, birds, animals, and finally men and women; that man differed from the animals in that he was created in the image and likeness of God; and that man was given dominion over all the earth and its creatures.

In the spiritual sense we need to remember that this story of creation tells us how the first men and women were developed into a church, and also how any one of us from being wholly natural and worldly may become spiritual and heavenly, a true human being, formed in the image and likeness of God.

Today's lesson takes us to the final step in this story — the seventh day. In the literal sense we have, in the first three verses of the second chapter of Genesis, the account of the ordination of the sabbath as a holy day of rest, coming every seventh day. There is a very obvious lesson for us in the letter. The Lord knows the needs of the people He has created, and if He tells us to observe every seventh day as a day of rest, it is because we need it. Also if it is said that the Lord "blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it," we know that it is to be not only a day of rest but a holy day. When the Lord was in the world, He gave us a clear example of how to use the sabbath day. He went regularly to the synagogue on that day; He taught and healed on that day; and He walked through the fields with His disciples and ate with them. That is, Sunday should be a day when we go to church and Sunday School, do all we can to be helpful to others, and enjoy the company of our family and friends. Sunday should be a day when we try to put our selfish thoughts and feelings aside, learn about the Lord and worship Him, and practice making other people happy. If we do this, we shall find ourselves also happy on Sunday. Remember that blessed means happy. The Lord gave the Pharisees a simple rule for the observance of the sabbath which we should learn and remember. He said (Matthew 12:12): "It is lawful to do good on the sabbath."

When we come to the spiritual sense of our lesson, we find that the seventh day pictures the final creation of the first people into a "celestial" church, and the final celestial state which it is possible for any one of us to attain if he is faithful in trying to learn the Lord's truth and obey it. In the spiritual sense the rest of the sabbath day is not rest from work but rest from fear and worry and from the struggle with temptation. We reach this state of rest only when we come to trust the Lord wholly and to love to do His will, that is, when we come really to love the Lord. We need to know what are meant by the terms celestial and spiritual, for we shall be using them often. Celestial means a state in which we do right spontaneously from love to the Lord. Spiritual means a state in which we do right from love to the neighbor in accordance with the truths we have learned from the Word.

What we must especially remember from our study of the Creation story is that we are not born celestial or spiritual, but natural, and that we cannot become celestial without first becoming spiritual.

We all like to think that if we "mean well," what we do will be right, or at least that when we do things which actually hurt other people, we should be forgiven because we meant well. We need to see that our natural good intentions are not a sufficient guide for our conduct, but that we must constantly be studying the Word to find out what the Lord says is right and to correct our own ideas accordingly. We are all born natural; that is, our feelings and ideas are centered about what we see and experience in this world. If we study the Word and correct our ideas and feelings according to the truths we learn there, the Lord can regenerate us and make us spiritual. And if we are faithful in this effort to the very end of our life in this world, the Lord can fill our hearts with His own love so that we shall become celestial. Then there is no longer any struggle between what we "naturally" want to do and what we know we ought to do, because we have come to love to do what we ought to do. This is the rest of the sabbath.

The Creation story is summed up for us in the last four verses of our lesson, beginning again with the Lord's creation of the heavens and the earth — the heavenly and the earthly things in our souls — and ending with man's becoming a "living soul" — full from inmost to outmost with life from the Lord.

