
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Children are old enough to have met and to know the answer to the problem of Saturday or Sunday as the true sabbath. The greater part of the lesson period, however, should be given to a discussion of the right use of the sabbath. Have them look up the Bible references in their notes.

---
By what other names do we call the Bible?

Who is its Author?

Why do we study it?

Into what two parts is it divided?

What is the first book in the Bible?

Why is it called Genesis?

In how many days or periods was the earth created? On what day were the sun, moon, and stars created? What was the final creation?

How does man differ from the animals?

Over what was he given dominion?

What did the Lord do on the seventh day?

You know that no one can work day in and day out without resting. We have to have our rest and sleep every night, but even this is not enough. Once in a while we need a "break," a change from our usual activities. Otherwise we lose all pleasure in our work; our bodies wear out and our minds grow dull. Our bodies need the regular day of change; our minds need it; and above all our souls need it. The Lord Himself, as we learn in our lesson for today, ordained that every seventh day should be set apart as a day of rest, and the Lord knows what is best for the creatures He has made.

You probably all know people who think they are not obeying this command of the Lord unless they set apart Saturday, which happens to be the seventh day of our calendar week. But we may remember that our calendar did not come into existence for thousands of years after the Lord gave the first people this law; so the law has nothing to do with our calendar week. It prescribes six days of work and then a holy day of rest. The word sabbath means rest. The Jews observed and still observe Saturday as their sabbath, but the early Christians chose Sunday, the first day of the calendar week, because it was "the Lord's Day," the day on which the Lord arose from the dead.

All of you have probably had some arguments with your parents as to what you should and should not do on Sunday. This is partly because people's ideas differ as to what is fitting conduct for the day which the Lord has sanctified. Sanctified means "made holy." We learn from the New Testament that the Lord, when He was on earth, disagreed with the Pharisees as to what it was right to do on the sabbath day, and He pointed out to them that He was Lord of the sabbath day.

Since we are all trying to follow the Lord's example, there are some things which we may know should be done on Sunday. We should go to church and Sunday School. Look up Luke 4:16. And we should do all we can to be helpful to others on Sunday, for the Lord performed many miracles of healing on the sabbath. His example also shows us that it is right for us to walk and talk with our friends and to eat with them on Sunday. Read Matthew 12:1-8.

In Matthew 12:12 the Lord gives us a general law which we should learn and always keep in mind on Sunday: "It is lawful to do good on the sabbath." Our souls need this day of rest — rest from the selfish struggle to get what we want. One of the things this may mean for you is that on Sunday more than on any other day you should be obedient and try to make your parents happy. You will find that this will make you happier, too, as the day goes on, for all real happiness comes from unselfishness. If our hearts are filled up with ourselves and what we want, they are closed to the Lord, and it is the Lord's love flowing into our hearts which can make us happy. Sunday should be a day when our hearts and minds are open to the Lord and eager to learn and do His will. If on Sunday we go to church and Sunday School, enjoy the company of our family and friends, and try to think of things to do which will make those about us happy, we shall be too busy and too happy ourselves to worry about the things we are not allowed to do.

