
=== Notes for Parents

As we have observed before, Genesis means the beginning, and the first words we read in the Bible are, "In the beginning God." God is the beginning of everything. Nothing in the world created itself. And in the very last chapter of the Bible we read, "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last." The Bible was written through many men over a period of hundreds of years, but it is one book by one Author. The Lord is the beginning and the end of it.

The story of creation is a wonderful allegory or parable given us by the Lord to teach us how we are developed, once "light" dawns in our minds. We begin in ignorance — "without form and void" — and pass through the long processes of learning and living the truth as the Lord gives it to us, receiving ever more and more of His spirit, until finally, if we are faithful, we come into that happy state when we trust and obey Him gladly. Then, when our selfish and worldly desires have been overcome, we no longer have to struggle with temptations. This is the rest of the sabbath.

The weekly day of rest was ordained by the Lord because we need it. Our bodies and our minds need regular rest and change, but our souls need it even more. If we make Sunday merely a day of idle self-indulgence, our selfish feelings and thoughts — which cause all our troubles — are just as active then as on any other day. There is only one place where our souls can find rest, and that is in the Lord. When the Lord was in the world, He gave us the perfect example of how to live, and He taught us by His own acts how we ought to spend the sabbath day. Luke (4:16) tells us that "as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day." He taught and healed on the sabbath. He walked through the fields with His disciples and ate with them. And in Matthew 12:12 He gives us one simple rule: "It is lawful to do good on the sabbath." Let us make Sunday the day when we especially try to "do good," worshiping the Lord, learning from Him, and trying to forget ourselves and make those about us happy. Then we shall soon learn why the Lord in the beginning "blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it."

