
=== Primary

The lesson should always be read before the children are allowed to begin any handwork. Then, as the children work, the teacher may repeat and emphasize any points desired. Stress the fact that happiness comes only from the Lord, and that He can give it to us only as we try to make others happy.

---
Do you know what book we read and study in Sunday School?

It is the Holy Bible. It is also called the Word of God, because in it God speaks to us and tells us about Himself and about heaven and about how we should live so that He will be able to make us happy always. So the Bible is the most wonderful book in the world.

It is divided into a great many shorter books which we shall study one after another, but in all of them the Lord tells us in interesting stories the things He wants us to know.

The first book in the Bible is called Genesis. Genesis means the beginning, and it starts with the story of the beginning of the world. Let us read the first five verses of the first chapter.

Then we are told how the Lord went on creating or making everything. On the second day He separated the earth and the heaven by dividing the waters above from the waters below. On the third day He gathered the lower waters into seas and brought forth grass and herbs and fruit trees on the earth. On the fourth day the sun, moon, and stars appeared. On the fifth day the fish and birds were created, and on the sixth day the animals and men and women were created. Now let us go on with our reading. [Read Genesis 2:1-7.]

What did the Lord do on the seventh day? Genesis 2:3 tells us why every seventh day is set apart as a day of rest. Blessed means made happy, and sanctified means made holy.

None of us does just the same things on Sunday as on weekdays.

But some people do not use Sunday as it is meant to be used.

It should be a happy day but it should also be a holy day.

We should use part of it to learn about the Lord and to worship Him.

And we should use all of it in ways which will make us better — more nearly likenesses of the Lord.

