
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The emphasis with this class should be on the importance of continued effort to learn and do the Lord's will, the lifelong repetition of the six days of creation and the sabbath of rest. They also need the lesson on the purpose and use of the sabbath day.

---
Our lesson for today is centered on the completion of the Creation story, which is summed up for us in Genesis 2:4-7. The heavens and the earth picture our spiritual and our natural faculties and the six days of creation the process by which, if we develop as we should, our natural faculties are educated and brought into orderly subjection to the spiritual — which is the process of regeneration. Verse 7 is a still briefer summary. The Lord forms man of the "dust of the ground" when our natural faculties are developed; He "breathes into his nostrils the breath of life" when knowledge of Him and faith in Him are acquired; and man becomes a "living soul" when his external life becomes an expression of love to the Lord.

The Creation story also pictures the development of the first people into a true "church," the Most Ancient Church.

The rest of the seventh day pictures the final stage of the process in both these meanings. It is the attainment of the celestial degree, when there is no longer any sense of labor or conflict because right action has become happy and spontaneous through the inflowing love of the Lord. The Most Ancient Church was a celestial church. Its people were in love to the Lord, and so could be given a perception of the truth. We know that they afterward declined from this state and that the perception had to be taken away when their will became perverted. Men on earth have never since lived in the celestial state. It is, however, the high ideal toward which we should strive and one which we may attain in the end if we are sufficiently faithful here.

We may see in our own experience small examples of the process of becoming celestial. We have all acquired at least some good habits, habits which are so much a part of us now that we may forget that they had to be acquired. But in each case our original natural tendency was contrary. We first had to be taught what was right. Usually, for some time we had to be forced to do it until we came to see that it really was right. Then we forced ourselves to do it until our natural resistance gradually disappeared and the right action became "second nature." So far as that particular thing was concerned we had reached the sabbath of rest, the celestial state.

This process must go on little by little all our lives: six days of labor before the sabbath of rest. Isaiah writes (28:10): "For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept: line upon line, line upon line: here a little, and there a little." We all like to imagine that, since in general we mean well, something inside us will always tell us what is right. You will hear people say, "What a man thinks is right is right for him." This is an attempt to jump from the first day to the seventh without any of the labor of the intervening days — and it just can't be done. We really know this. If we are honest with ourselves, we know we have made many mistakes which we might have avoided if we had been willing to study and think and correct our own judgment by the teachings of the Word of God.

The sabbath of rest comes from the Lord. It is not, either literally or spiritually, a day of idle loafing. It is a day and a state in which selfish thoughts and desires and strivings are put aside and we give ourselves wholeheartedly to the service of the Lord and the neighbor. It is natural that we should grow up thinking of Sunday in terms of what we must not do on that day. The rule of life is "Cease to do evil; learn to do well." But it is not the ceasing from evil which makes the sabbath blessed and sanctified; it is the learning to do well.

The Pharisees, you may remember, had made the sabbath a hard day with their many prohibitions, and the Lord brushed away these prohibitions with the simple statement, "It is lawful to do good on the sabbath." The sabbath state is a positive, not a negative one. Doing good means active effort to learn about the Lord, to worship Him, and to engage in such works as will make others happy and ourselves nearer to the ideal given us by the Lord. Such a use of our Sundays may not seem easy or happy to us at first, but practice in this, more perhaps than in any other good habit, will bring great reward.

