
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The children of this age are able to understand the general meaning of the divided kingdom in us and how hard it is for us to stay good when we let ourselves begin to think in a worldly way about our everyday life. Stress our need of the courage to stand by our religious principles in the face of temptation from companions.

---
Our lesson today is chosen partly because it is typical of the history of the divided kingdom and partly because Asa has come down in history as a well—known figure in spite of the fact that his story is told in only a few verses.

The Lord kept His promise to David that he should always have a son to sit on the throne of Judah. Evil as many of the kings of Judah were, they were all of David's line. This means that once the heart has accepted the rule of the Lord's truth, it never can quite forget that sovereignty. However bad some of its states are, it is bound to stop now and then and examine itself and try to reform. So the kings of Judah were not all bad. Every little while there was a very good one. The sign of a bad king was the setting up of idols; the sign of a good king was the destruction of them. Idolatry is the setting up of anything as our supreme goal in life except service of the Lord. We should guard against this more than against anything else.

Spiritual idolatry may creep into our lives without our recognizing it. Up to the time of Asa's reign there is no mention of neglect of the temple worship. The idols were set up in the "high places" outside of Jerusalem. So at first we may continue to go to church and worship the Lord on Sunday but may forget Him during the week in our pursuit of knowledge or money or pleasure. It is recorded that Asa destroyed the idols, but "the high places were not removed." We come to our senses from time to time and dethrone certain false goals which we find to be in control of our thinking in regard to our daily life, but often we do not go quite far enough. We do not destroy the high places, the tendency to trust our own judgment, to assume that what we think is right just because we think it.

If we remember that "high places" used in a bad sense are the opposite of true humility before the Lord, we shall understand the result of this neglect of Asa's. Other good kings had this same weakness. Literally, when the high places were left untouched, people still continued to go to them for worship and it was easy to put new idols in them when the good king was gone. So it is with us: if we do not recognize and break down our tendency to self-esteem and pride in our own intelligence, we merely replace one worldly goal with another, and worship of the Lord gradually dies out of our lives. Later in the story of Judah we find that the temple fell into disrepair and finally that idols were set up in the very temple court.

In this chapter, too, we have the first appearance of the king of Syria, who was to play an important role in the subsequent history of both Judah and Israel. Syria and Assyria picture the rational faculty — Syria especially that faculty in the natural plane of the mind. We all know that we may use our reason to support either truth or falsity — that we may argue in favor of either. It is not the possession of good reasoning power which makes a person good, but the desire of his heart to serve the Lord and the neighbor. In our story today Syria is brought in as an ally of the good king Asa, but Asa buys this help by giving up the gold and silver of the temple. Syria, which later would become an enemy, thus gained a type of control in Judah. Asa saved his country for the time being but at the cost of later disaster. Read here 2 Chronicles 16:7-10, which tells how the Lord sent a prophet to Asa to rebuke him for trusting in the king of Syria instead of in the Lord. The two books of Chronicles do not have an inner sense. We do not study them in Sunday school for this reason. But we may often find interesting historical details in them which are not mentioned in the Word itself. Chapters 14, 15, and 16 of 2 Chronicles are concerned with the reign of Asa. Asa's looking to Syria for help is a picture of trying to support our belief in the Lord and the Word by means of natural things, as people try to find traces of the flood in order to support the story of Noah. In doing this they are really giving up their inner certainty with regard to the Lord and the Word, the gold and silver of the temple.

Asa's weakness in this respect had an interesting result. Verse 23 tells us that "in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet." The feet represent our outward conduct. When we begin to look to men and to nature for support of our faith instead of trusting wholeheartedly in the Lord, sooner or later we begin to do as other people do instead of governing our conduct by the Lord's laws. We become diseased in our spiritual feet.

