
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This class will be interested in a study of the situation with the help of a map and in discussing how Asa's leaving the high places untouched and turning to Syria for aid would be likely to invite trouble later. The lesson of the result of not doing a thorough job of "cleaning up" is good for this age group.

---
All the kings of Israel were evil. In spite of the Lord's warnings through the prophets Elijah and Elisha, Israel became worse and worse and finally was taken captive by Assyria and all its people carried away into captivity, never to return.

But the history of Judah was different. In the first place the kings of Judah were all descendants of David. Read verse 4 of our chapter to see why. They were not all good, and the people of Judah were often led away into the worship of the idols of the nations among whom they dwelt. But you remember that the capital of Judah was Jerusalem, where the temple was; so they always had that to remind them of the Lord. Sometimes they neglected the temple and let it fall into disrepair, and one bad king even set up idols in the temple itself. But every once in a while a good king would come to the throne, who would restore the worship of the Lord and bring about reforms. So Judah was able to stand longer than Israel and, although it, too, was eventually conquered and many of its people carried away to the conquering Babylonia, some of the people were left in the land and others were, after a time, allowed to return and rebuild the temple. So it was the descendants of the people of Judah who were the Jews of the Lord's time.

The first of the good kings of Judah was the great—grandson of Solomon.

What was his name?

It is said in verse 14 that "Asa's heart was perfect with the Lord all his days." This means that he always wanted to do right. We shall see that he made mistakes, but his intention was good.

What was the first good thing he did?

Perhaps you remember that in Abraham's time the great cities of Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed by a rain of "fire and brimstone" from heaven because all the people in them had become so wicked. Afterward those who practiced similar evils were sometimes called sodomites.

What other good thing did Asa do?

What did he not do that he should have done?

This same thing is said of several of the other good kings. It means that though they destroyed the idols themselves, they did not break down the places where the idols had been set up, and so afterward it was easy to put new idols there. The idols were images of various kinds. Some people today still worship such images. We do not worship images, but really anything that we think of as more important to us than obeying the Lord is our idol. People may make an idol of money or social position or political power or sports and pleasures. Sometimes even you, for instance, come to see that you have been caring too much about fun or sports or even eating, and you make up your mind to put that particular enjoyment down in your life to the level where it belongs and not to let it come first in all your thinking and planning. This is like Asa destroying the idols. Grown people do this, too, with their idols. But if they do not go further and recognize that there is something which supports all these idols and leads us into the worship of them — the thought that we ourselves are of first concern in everything — then they are not destroying the high places, and other idols will soon take the place of those they have removed. The "high places" are the feeling of our own importance and wisdom.

Who was king of Israel during most of Asa's life?

He was not a descendant of Jeroboam. Nadab, Jeroboam's son, reigned only two years and then the people, led by Baasha of the tribe of Issachar, rebelled against him. Baasha killed Nadab and became king himself. The royal line in Israel changed several times in this way.

What did Baasha do to trouble Asa?

To whom did Asa send for help?

What did Asa give the king of Syria in return for his help?

In 2 Chronicles three chapters, 14, 15, and 16, are devoted to Asa's reign. The books of Chronicles are the temple records and do not have an inner sense. But we sometimes learn interesting details from them. So in regard to Asa we learn that he was rebuked through a prophet for trusting the king of Syria instead of the Lord, and that the last part of his reign was less happy than the first.

How long did Asa reign?

What physical ailment did he have in his old age?

