
=== Primary

Remind the children of the wicked Ahab in an earlier lesson. Then tell them that Asa was a good king. Tell them about the worship of idols and repeat the commandment against worshiping idols (Exodus 20:2-6). Then tell them how Asa destroyed the idols and brought the people back to the worship of the Lord. The good side of Asa's story is the important one for the little children, but mention the fact that Asa made mistakes, too, as all of us do, and also mention the disease in his feet in his old age. This may seem a very small point, but it will interest the children and will help to fix Asa in their minds. Later its correspondence will be important.

Do you remember how the people in the northern part of the land rebelled against Solomon's son and set up a kingdom of their own? Their first king was afraid that if his people continued to go down to the temple at Jerusalem to worship, as they had been brought up to do, they would in time be drawn back into the other kingdom. So he set up two calves made of gold, one in Bethel just across the border from Jerusalem, and the other in Dan, the city farthest north in his own kingdom. And he appointed ceremonies and great feast days for the worship of these calves, so that the people would enjoy themselves in it. So the people of the northern kingdom never did return to the worship of the Lord. In spite of the warnings of the prophets Elijah and Elisha, whom the Lord sent to them, they became worse and worse until finally the Lord could not help them anymore and their enemies conquered them and carried them all away.

But the people of the southern kingdom had the temple and its worship to keep them reminded of the Lord. They were not very good either, and were often tempted to worship the idols which the other peoples of the land worshiped, and sometimes they even set up idols of their own. Many of their kings were bad, too, but every once in a while there would come a king who was good, who would try to bring his people back to the worship of their true God.

Our story today is about the third king of Judah. What was his name?

Was he a good or a bad king?

What good things did he do?

What did he not do that he should have done?

How did the king of Israel try to injure him?

To whom did Asa send for help?

What did he use for presents to persuade Benhadad?

How did Benhadad help him?

What physical trouble did Asa have in his old age?

