
=== Adult

There are many important discussion topics in this lesson: the importance of the commandments, the different motives for obedience to them, the necessity for humility, the persistence of our selfish inheritance, the way in which divine providence protects us from ourselves, the time element in the journey and its relation to our experience.

---
As a background for this lesson, recall the stories of the giving of quails and manna, the bringing of water out of a rock at Rephidim, and the battle with Amalek, in which Joshua led the army and Moses went up to the top of the mountain and Aaron and Hur held up his hands to the Lord. We need to have them in mind, for the experiences confirmed in the children of Israel the certainty that the Lord was able and willing to provide for them and to give them victory over their enemies. They all belong, in their spiritual sense, to the very beginning of the period of reformation, for we are told in chapter 19 that the people came to Sinai in the third month. Their first experiences were the necessary preparation for their reception of the laws and instructions to be given at Sinai.

Another preparation is found in the story of the visit of Jethro to Moses (chapter 18). Jethro the Midianite, the father-in-law of Moses, represents a simple, childlike state of worship. Yet Jethro was very wise, as good children are often wiser than grown—ups. He found Moses overburdened with the tasks he had assumed in his leadership of the people, sitting all day hearing complaints and settling differences. Are we not likely, in the early stages of our journey heavenward, to think that we must stop to look into each little thought and act, and to become bogged down in the complexities of our nature? Jethro's advice to Moses was that wise judges be chosen from the tribes to hear and decide the ordinary cases, and that only the really difficult matters should be brought to Moses. We should set up principles in our lives to govern us in the small affairs of daily life, and put our real thought upon our deeper problems.

We all know the story of the giving of the commandments from Sinai and that, in addition to the commandments, the many detailed laws recorded in Exodus and especially in Leviticus were given during the eleven months in which the people were camped on the plain at the foot of Mount Sinai. In fact, the whole system of laws by which the Israelites were to be governed throughout their history as a representative nation was given there. When they studied and obeyed these laws, they prospered; when they neglected to study them and disobeyed them, disasters came upon them. Their most pressing motive in keeping them was apparently the desire for worldly prosperity, not unlike the way a child often tries to do things he thinks will please adults without understanding any deeper reasons for his actions. In their letter the minor laws were for the people of that day, instructions by which the chosen judges might be guided in their decisions. They were abrogated — in their letter — when that era came to its end. But we know that in their inner meaning every one of them is a directive to us and can help us in setting our lives in order and keeping them in order. And the ten commandments, for which Moses himself stands in the story, are both in their letter and in their spiritual meaning divine laws for all people for all time.

Next to the commandments the instructions for making and furnishing the tabernacle and for its use are the most important. As the tabernacle was the center of the nation's worship, we think of it as representative of worship in our lives — primarily a place, but a state of life, a state so ordered that the love and wisdom of the Lord can be received. The three divisions of the tabernacle represent the three planes of our lives: will, thought, and act. The furnishings of each division picture the essential things which must be in these divisions if the life is to be heavenly.

We are concerned today with the ark. We know that each of us is kept alive from moment to moment by the influx of the Lord's life into the inmost of our being. This inmost presence of the Lord in our lives is pictured by the ark. Swedenborg says it represents the "inmost heaven." It was made of acacia wood, which pictures "the good of merit" which is in the Lord alone. It was overlaid within and without with pure gold, picturing the Lord's unselfish love. Its crown of pure gold and the golden rings by which it was carried are the encircling and support of the heavenly life by the Lord's love. The mercy seat — or, as Swedenborg renders it, the "propitiatorium" — is our cleansing from evil by the reception of that love. The golden cherubim picture divine providence protecting the good person from profaning that which he receives by attributing it to himself.

Swedenborg tells us many times that "the Divine of the Lord makes heaven." That is, no one can come into a heavenly state except as he puts self aside and so opens the way for the influx of the Lord's unselfish love. Obedience to the commandments is the essential at the heart of the heavenly life, but this heavenly life is not our first obedience through a sense of fear of consequences or the desire to be thought good; nor is it the second obedience from a sense of duty. It is obedience practiced until it has become willing and joyous, until it is so covered by our sense of the Lord's goodness and mercy that our natural self-righteousness disappears. The wood of the ark, the gold which overlaid it, and the golden crown around the top edge all picture the willing acknowledgment that all goodness and truth are the Lord's and not our own. The translation "mercy seat" was probably suggested by the fact that the Lord was to speak to Moses from between the cherubim, but it is not an accurate one. The Hebrew word is 'koppar', meaning merely a "covering," although the word "propitiatory" and the connotations of the Hebrew root indicate that it suggests the covering of our evils by divine mercy. The root is the same which comes out in "Yom Kippur," the day of atonement. We are told that even angels, when from time to time they begin to lose their lively consciousness that they have no real life except from the Lord, are "let down" into their own states briefly until they realize again what is their own and what is the Lord's in them. So the mercy seat or propitiatory pictures exactly the way in which the Lord in His mercy hides our evils from our sight and so cleanses us when we have learned to obey the commandments from love.

Cherubim are frequently mentioned in the Word. They are symbolic figures representing the care and protection which divine providence exercises over us, especially protection against "profaning" the truth and good which we have accepted. Genesis records that when Adam and Eve were driven out of the Garden of Eden, the Lord placed cherubim at the entrance to prevent their return; this means that when self-love began to occupy the human heart, the Lord closed the inner way of communication with heaven which had been open in the first people so that this "perception" should not be used for selfish ends. We are also told that whenever the Lord sees that we are no longer willing to live according to a given truth which we have previously acknowledged, He takes from us the belief that it is the truth. Swedenborg says that in this way one may gradually kill his conscience. This by no means leads toward heaven; it merely prevents one from going deeper into hell. Read here verses 23 through 31 of the thirty-seventh Psalm. These words express very beautifully the state of the "good" person, who has set up the tabernacle in the midst of his life and the ark in the Holy of Holies of the tabernacle. "The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide."

