
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the details of the ark and the reason for its position in the tabernacle are the proper lessons for this class.

In the third month the people came to Sinai. We remember this as part of the range called Horeb near which Moses received his call at the burning bush. Sinai was a rugged mountain rising steeply from the plain. The people were told to camp in the plain and not come near the mount. Moses was called up into the mountain to receive from the Lord laws and directions which were to govern the people not only throughout their journey to the Holy Land, but always. Even today orthodox Jews observe many of them. Many of these laws (not, of course, the ten commandments) are not meant for us to obey in their letter, but in their inner meaning they apply to us and to all people at all times. When you are older, you will want to study some of them, and you will sometimes hear sermons preached on one or another of them. They go very deep into our experience and teach us a great deal.

You know, of course, that the ten commandments were given from Mount Sinai. This was not because people had never known them before. Men had been told them from the very beginning, and all people have them as the basis of their law. But people had forgotten — as people today sometimes forget — that they are laws of God and cannot be broken without causing suffering. So the giving of them from Sinai was recorded in the Word so that we might always remember their source and importance.

The commandments were first spoken by the voice of the Lord from the top of the mountain, all the people hearing them — the only time when all the people heard the Lord speak. Then Moses was called up into the top of the mountain and the Lord wrote them on two tables of stone. When Moses brought the two tables down, he found that the people had already gone back to idolatry, and he broke the tables in his anger. Then the Lord told him to cut two more tables from stone at the foot of the mount and bring them up, and the same commandments were written again. The two tables from the foot of the mount were the ones which were placed in the ark and which traveled with the Israelites wherever they went. They were the holiest thing they possessed.

Among the things which the Lord gave Moses on the mount were directions for the construction and furnishing of the tabernacle, or tent, in which they were to worship throughout their journey. It was so constructed that it could be taken down and carried with them; and very careful instructions were given for its care, including directions as to which tribes should march in front of it, and which after it, and just how the tribes were to be arranged around it when they camped. It was to be the center of their camp and the center of their marching line. It is easy to see that this means that our worship is to be the center of our life whatever we do and wherever we go.

The first and most important article of furniture to be made for the tabernacle was the ark in which the two tables of stone inscribed with the ten commandments were to be kept. The ark was to be the only article of furniture in the Holy of Holies, or inmost room of the tabernacle. Our lesson tells us that it was a chest made of acacia wood overlaid with pure gold inside and out. The three divisions of the tabernacle represent the three planes of our lives on which we should serve the Lord: our hearts or wills, our minds, and our outward lives. The Holy of Holies pictures the heart. Several times in the Word we read that the commandments should be in the heart (Psalm 37:31; 40:8, and Isaiah 51:7). This means that we should love them and cherish them as the center of our life, and the ark is a picture of the way in which we make a place for them there. Acacia wood, Swedenborg tells us, represents "the good of righteousness," which is the good which we develop in our lives when we obey the Lord because we see that all good comes from Him. The gold with which it was overlaid is pure, unselfish love. This, too, comes into our hearts from the Lord as we form the habit of obedience in a spirit of humility. The golden mercy seat, or covering, on top of the ark pictures the cleansing from sins which follows our obedience, and the golden cherubs picture the Lord's providence protecting us against taking credit to ourselves for our obedience and goodness.

The last verse of our lesson tells us that the Lord promised to meet with the children of Israel and to commune with them "from above the mercy seat, and from between the cherubims." When we have a decision to make in our lives, how do we find out what the Lord wants us to do? First we think of the commandments and ask ourselves, "Is there anything in the ways I might choose which is contrary to the commandments?" If there is, our decision is easy. But suppose all possibilities square with the commandments; then we must ask, "Which one will do the most good to others?" And when we ask this, we are led to make the right decision. If we hold the commandments in our hearts and try to live from the principle of service to the Lord and the neighbor, being grateful to the Lord for everything we can do and not proud of ourselves, we may be sure that the Lord will form in us a heavenly character.

The ark of the covenant had a long history. The Israelites carried it faithfully all through their forty years in the wilderness and set it up in the tabernacle when they reached their homes in the Holy Land. Then, because they had reached their goal and were prosperous, they neglected it. Once they even tried to use it selfishly as a sort of good—luck piece, and they lost it for a while. It was finally carried to Jerusalem by David, and when Solomon built the temple, the ark was placed in the inmost chamber there. But after the temple was destroyed and the people were carried captive to Babylon, there is no further mention of the ark. Many stories have been written about its later history, but they are purely imaginary.

