
=== Junior

The plan and furnishings of the tabernacle should be reviewed with this class before taking up the ark and its meaning. See if any of the children can repeat any of the commandments. This is the time to begin to memorize them, and the teacher should have this project in mind and talk over with the superintendent some plan for carrying it out — perhaps call for one commandment a week and offer a suitable reward for the final ability to repeat all ten perfectly.

In the third month the Israelites came to Sinai, and they stayed there about eleven months. The ten commandments were given by the Lord from the top of Mount Sinai. They are found in chapter 20 of Exodus. If you haven't already memorized them, you should begin now and see how soon you can learn them all, for they are our directions for a good life. We cannot break any of the commandments without suffering for it and bringing suffering on other people, too. The laws of every nation in the world are founded on the ten commandments, for they were made known to people from the very beginning of the human race. The Israelites knew them in a general way; but they, as well as everybody else, had forgotten that they were laws of God and not just man-made laws.

In addition to the commandments, the Lord gave the people many other laws about all sorts of things in their lives. There are many of them in these chapters of Exodus, and the Book of Leviticus is full of them. We should know that, although most of them in their letter applied only to the ancient Hebrews, in their inner meaning every one of them applies to us. They are a wonderful study, but we have not time to take them up in Sunday school.

Along with the laws, the Lord gave the people through Moses directions for making and furnishing their place of worship. This was a tent, or tabernacle, which could be taken down and carried with them wherever they went. When they stopped, it was immediately set up in the middle of the camp. You are old enough to understand that this means that our worship of the Lord is to be at the very center of our lives and is to be taken with us wherever we go. Later we shall study the tabernacle and its furnishings, but in this lesson we are thinking especially of its most important piece of furniture, the ark of the covenant. You remember that an ark is a box or chest made to keep something safely.

What ark have we studied about?

There is another ark in the story of Moses. What was it? The ark in our lesson today was not like either of these. Of what was the ark of the covenant made?

Acacia wood is from a thorny desert tree.

How big was the ark?

A cubit is the length from a man's elbow to the tips of his fingers, about one and a half feet.

With what was the wood of the ark overlaid?

How was the ark to be carried?

What was to be placed on top of the ark?

The mercy seat was a covering the same length and width as the ark. The two cherubim on the mercy seat were symbolic figures, and they are usually thought of as angel figures. No one knows just what these figures on the ark were really like. How do you suppose the Israelites knew how to make them? Read Exodus 31:1-7.

What was to be kept in the ark?

The "testimony," or covenant, means the two tables of stone on which the ten commandments were written.

In verse 22 we read that the Lord promised to speak with the high priest from between the two cherubim on the mercy seat, and this happened many times afterward. Whenever Moses and Aaron were in doubt about what they should do, they consulted the Lord in front of the ark and received His answers. The ark was the only article of furniture that was in the inmost room or Holy of Holies of the tabernacle. The Holy of Holies pictures our hearts, and this means that the commandments should be "written in our hearts" or obeyed from love to the Lord and the neighbor. Read Psalm 37:31; 40:8; and Isaiah 51:7.

We should note one other point in our lesson. How was Moses told to get the materials for the tabernacle? Do you remember where the people got these things?

