
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Perhaps the most important lesson for the Seniors is the fact that the ten commandments are binding upon all men for all time and are the only basis for the development of a heavenly character. There is so much attempt in the world today to compromise with the commandments that young people should be led to realize that they cannot be broken with impunity now or at any time.

---
It may be helpful to us to look for a moment at the wilderness journey as a whole. It lasted in all about forty years. This seems a long time for a short journey, and a later lesson will tell us why it was prolonged. But most of its outstanding events were crowded into the first year, and all but the first two months of this year were spent at Sinai. What does this picture in our lives? We have said that the wilderness journey represents the period in which we are trying to bring our outward lives into order. Most of us are brought up in orderly homes and are taught what is right and wrong, and made to form good habits. But often when we leave home for work or college, we shed some of these habits and experiment with things we have been forbidden to do at home. We want to see what it is like to "do as others do." It is not until we have seen the dangers and unhappiness of this worldly life that we break away from Egypt and start back to the Holy Land. Our journey, like that of the Israelites, follows certain stages. There is the first real temptation (crossing the Red Sea); there is the period of discouragement when we do not find immediate satisfaction in the new life (the experience at Marah); the glimpse of a new kind of happiness (the rest at Elim). Then in the Bible story follow the giving of the quails and manna (the realization that the Lord does actually give us enough goodness to meet each day as it comes, if we are faithful); the bringing of water out of the rock at Rephidim (picturing our ability, with the Lord's help, to find satisfying truth even in the hard facts of life); the battle with Amalek (the overcoming of discouragement); and finally the arrival at Sinai "in the third month." We all have these experiences when we set out to correct our lives and bring them back into order.

Up to the time of their arrival at Sinai, the people had been a mere unorganized horde under Moses' leadership, following the pillar of cloud and fire. We fumble along in the same way at first. We are on our way and it is not altogether true that we don't know where we are going, but we haven't developed any very clear plan of action. After a few experiences, however, we know that the Lord really is helping us, and we sit down to think things through and organize our life. This is just what happened to the children of Israel at Sinai. They stayed there eleven months, and in that time — through the laws and statutes given to them by the Lord from the mount, they were organized into a nation. The twelve tribes were told their proper relation to each other; leaders were chosen not only for each tribe, but for the various divisions within the tribes; rules were laid down for the conduct of all their daily affairs; punishments were named for infractions of the laws; and, above all, the commandments were given and full instructions for maintaining worship. As we read the chapters concerning this stay at Sinai, and the book of Leviticus in which most of the laws are gathered together, it may seem that they received just a long series of minute directions, some of them quite strange and some hard for us today to understand. It is not surprising that without a knowledge of the internal sense of these laws, men have often decided they were not worth reading and completely out—of—date. But we know — and it takes only a little study of the internal sense to illustrate — that each one has an important meaning and application for us and for men and women of all times, and that they all bear relation to one another and, taken together, give us a complete blueprint for orderly living. Today blueprints are very important in engineering, architecture, city planning, and many other fields. It may help us to think of these laws given at Sinai as our blueprint for a good life: we may at first see only its general outlines, but as we begin to build, we find that each little detail is very necessary to the whole.

Today we are thinking of one detail: the ark. It was a chest approximately four feet long, two feet high, and two feet wide, made of acacia wood overlaid within and without with pure gold, and with a crown or edge of gold around the top, and upon it the golden mercy seat, or cover, on which stood the two golden cherubim, usually thought of as angel figures, with their wings meeting above the ark. In the box were kept the two tables of stone on which the ten commandments had been inscribed, and it was to be the only piece of furniture in the Holy of Holies or inmost room of the tabernacle. It was thus the central point of the whole religious organization, for the tabernacle was to be set up in the midst of the camp wherever they stopped, carried at the center of their line of march, and set up in the center of the Holy Land when they arrived there. The people recognized it as the Lord's presence with them and as their most important possession.

We think of the tabernacle as embodying all our thought about worship. Swedenborg says it represents heaven and that every good man or woman is a heaven in the least form. There would be no heaven anywhere if there were not heavenly men and women. And the thing that makes a man or woman heavenly is the Lord's presence in the life. This presence is given as we put selfishness away and learn and obey the Lord's laws from the desire to serve Him. The Holy of Holies of the tabernacle represents our hearts, and that is where we should keep the commandments, obeying the Lord from love. Acacia wood represents righteousness; the gold with which it was covered, love; the mercy seat, the cleansing of our evils as we hear and receive the Lord's Word from love; and the cherubim, the Lord's providence which constantly protects us against the evil of ascribing our goodness to ourselves. We all know how easy it is to fall into that evil and how much we need this protection. Whenever we catch ourselves counting up our accomplishments and our good deeds, and thinking we are better than someone else, we know the Lord is speaking a warning to us from between the cherubim. Obedience to the commandments from love to the Lord and the neighbor is the center of a heavenly life.

