
=== Adult

The lessons suggested for the Seniors are needed by the Adults, too, especially the command to fill our "waterpots" with "water." We have an easygoing tendency to do external good works which our community will applaud rather than to make the effort to grow in understanding of what the Lord means by charity.

The miracle of our lesson is recorded only in the Gospel of John, and John calls it the "beginning of miracles." [KJV] In the other three Gospels we are told that the Lord's active ministry began immediately after His baptism and temptations in the wilderness, and that His baptism was the symbol of His putting off of the evils of the humanity He inherited from Mary. John does not specifically mention His baptism, but he gives more fully and clearly than any of the others the testimony of John the Baptist which was given at that time. And now we find Him, when asked to exert His divine power, first setting Himself apart from Mary. Swedenborg translates the Lord's words in verse 4, "Woman, what [belongs] to me and thee?" [following the Greek literally]. They are not a rebuke to Mary but a question for consideration, implying that His power to help the world was in no way derived from or through Mary. (See the quotation from @AC 2649 below.) Mary, as the Lord's mother, represents the church, by means of which He comes into the world, and it is in this character that she acts in our story as the agent between Him and the people at the feast. The finite humanity which the Lord took on from Mary was merely the instrument by means of which He came in contact with evil and overcame it. The church should perform the same service for us: it should bring the Lord's truth to view and help us to apply it to our evils so that, through His power, we may overcome them.

The result of this putting off of the finite humanity through overcoming its evil tendencies was the gradual union of the Son with the Father, of divine truth with divine love. It is for this reason that the first miracle takes place at a marriage feast, for marriage in its highest sense represents the union of divine love and divine wisdom. In our study of the divided kingdom we saw the evils which result when will and understanding are separated, when our good desires do not seek the truth by means of which they can be carried out, and our knowledge of the truth is not united with any desire to act according to it. In the Lord, love and wisdom are perfectly united. Thus true marriage is the highest possible state of heavenly happiness, and everything in the world is created with the desire for union with its complement. Throughout creation, the things which represent love and truth tend to unite. This is what makes the distinction between the two sexes and inspires both with the desire for marriage, men picturing the intellectual and women the affectional elements. So the highest and deepest joys of life come from marriage love and the greatest evils and disasters from its abuse.

The first two verses of our chapter give us a wonderful setting for the miracle. Three pictures completeness; so "the third day" suggests the fullness of time, the fact that the Lord had now reached a state in which He could be in His active ministry. Galilee pictures the external plane of life, and Cana, which means "reedy," suggests a mere external understanding, for a reed is the symbol of the ultimate (lowest) sense of the Word, which can be easily bent by the winds of fancy. The marriage, however, represents some union of good and truth, Mary's presence the fact that the church is recognized, and the fact that the Lord and His disciples were invited shows a desire for the presence of the Lord and knowledge of Him. So all these details together give us a picture of a person living an external life with a mere external knowledge of the Word, yet having a genuine desire to live rightly, recognizing the church, and desiring to know more of the Lord. This is the state of many in the Christian church today.

What does it lack? The question reminds us of the rich young man who told the Lord that he had kept the commandments from his youth up and asked Him: "What lack I yet?" (Matthew 19:20) What is lacking in this sort of life which the Lord can supply if we call upon Him and fulfill His conditions?

Mary said, "They have no wine." Water and wine both represent truth, but water is truth on the natural plane and wine is truth on the spiritual plane. The commandments, as the rich young man had kept them, were truths on the natural plane; he had recognized them as necessary to orderly social life, to the preservation of his self-respect and of the respect of the community. But when one sees the commandments not only as necessary external laws but as the Lord's laws, given through His mercy for the preservation and development of our souls and to be kept with love and trust in Him, they become spiritual laws, and the keeping of them brings spiritual satisfaction. The water has been changed into wine. The Lord told the rich young man to follow Him. Mary told the servants at the feast, "Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it." This is following the Lord. "Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you." (John 15:14)

Then the Lord made use of the vessels which were at hand — six of them, representing the general knowledges essential to the orderly development of a spiritual life — and bade the servants fill them with water to the brim. He did not send them out for wine, but bade them use the water they had. "For this commandment which I command thee this day, it is not hidden from thee, neither is it far off ... But the word is very nigh unto thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it." (Deuteronomy 30:11-14) Then He said, "Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast." This is the command to use the truth we have to promote the union of good and truth, which is the Lord's kingdom in the soul. As we do this, the water is changed into wine. We all know that knowledge increases with use. No one realizes this more than a Sunday school teacher. Things become clear to us as we try to give them to a class. When we have made the best preparation we can, and genuinely desire to teach and help our pupils, frequently the right thoughts, the right words seem to come to us by inspiration as we teach. Similarly with all of us when we are facing a difficult problem in our lives, if we use what truth we have, trusting in the Lord, the way opens before us, and what seemed a heavy burden becomes a blessing instead.

In theological terms we are told that influx is in proportion to efflux. (@AC 5828[3]) We are also told that the Lord is in everything in its use. If we recognize the Lord and obey Him, His presence will be in every service we perform, turning the water of our natural knowledge into the wine of spiritual truth, and as the water of truth from the letter of the Word cleanses our external lives, the wine of its internal truth will refresh our souls. We often have the experience described in verse 10 also. When we undertake a new service of some kind from merely external motives, our first enthusiasm often wanes and the wine becomes poorer and poorer, but if we are thinking instead of the Lord's service and the upbuilding of His kingdom, the best wine is saved to the last. In the New Church we all have our "six waterpots of stone," our general doctrines. And we must not neglect to fill these to the brim with "water" — to learn more and more truth, all our minds will hold. But the Lord is the vine. The true wine can come only from Him.

