
=== Intermediate

The lesson for this class is in the correspondence of the details of the miracle. So short a reading gives a good opportunity to show the young people how important and full of meaning every verse is.

We have learned how different the Gospel of John is from the others. After the statement of the coming of the Lord into the world as the Word made flesh it goes directly into the Lord's ministry. For this reason we need at this point to refresh our memories concerning the external facts of the Lord's early life as they are found in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke. Mark's Gospel, you remember, begins with the appearance of John the Baptist and the Lord's baptism.

After the Lord's birth in Bethlehem He was presented at the temple at Jerusalem at the age of forty days according to Old Testament law. It was at that time that the aged Simeon and the prophetess Anna testified to His being the promised Messiah. Later the Wise Men from the East came with their gifts, and it was their visit which informed king Herod that the promised "king of the Jews" had been born in Bethlehem. And because Herod intended to destroy Him, Joseph was warned in a dream to take the young child and Mary to Egypt. When Herod died, they returned to the Holy Land, but not to Bethlehem. They went back to Nazareth in Galilee, which had been their home, and the Lord was brought up in Nazareth. At the age of twelve He was brought to Jerusalem for His first Passover, which was the equivalent of "confirmation" in our church. You remember how during that visit He was found in the temple talking with the learned men there, and that He astonished them with His answers to their questions. He returned to Nazareth with Mary and Joseph and was subject to them and "increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man." This is all the Gospels tell us about the childhood of the Lord.

We need to know that all through His thirty years of preparation for His ministry the Lord was meeting and overcoming temptations, gradually putting away the selfish human inheritance which He had taken on through Mary and putting forth in its place a divine humanity from within Himself. At about thirty years of age He came down to the Jordan and was baptized by John the Baptist and then went away alone for the forty days in the wilderness. His three temptations by "the devil" during that period picture all the kinds of temptation which He felt and overcame during His earthly life. He answered the devil each time with a quotation from the Word. After our last lesson we should easily understand why this was. Then the Lord left Nazareth and went to make His home at Capernaum on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, from which as a center He went about during the rest of His ministry.

In the time of the Lord the Holy Land was divided into three provinces — Judea, Samaria, and Galilee — representing the three planes of our lives — will, thought, and act. The greater part of the Lord's ministry was in Galilee. The greater part of our lives is spent in trying to serve the Lord and the neighbor in our daily life in the world. The Gospel of John tells us less about this Galilean ministry than the other Gospels, but it gives us the miracle of our lesson for today, the Lord's first miracle, which is recorded in none of the others. This miracle was performed in Cana of Galilee. Cana was a town about seven miles north of Nazareth. Swedenborg tells us that the Lord performed His miracles for two reasons: to strengthen the faith of the simple good people who wanted to believe in Him, and to picture — as part of the Word — the things which He can do in our souls, if we believe in Him and obey Him. We should note that the miracles never convinced anyone who did not already believe in the Lord. His enemies said that His power came from the devil.

Our reading for today is short, but there is a great deal packed into these eleven verses. The scene was in Galilee, symbol of the plane of outward conduct, and the place was Cana. Cana means "reedy." Reeds are the symbol of the simplest and most elementary truths. There was a marriage in Cana of Galilee, and the Lord, His disciples, and Mary were invited. Marriage always pictures the union of good and truth — a time when our desire and our understanding agree as to what we are to do. So this scene pictures a person who wants to do right in his outward life and has learned and obeyed at least the simple precepts of the Word, and who recognizes the Lord and wants His presence. The disciples here picture the means by which the Lord reaches out into the various fields of thought and desire in us, and Mary pictures the church. These were all present at the wedding. And there were six waterpots and plenty of water to fill them all to the brim. The waterpots, like all containers in the Word, picture general doctrines we have in our minds, and six pictures the orderly steps in the development of a good life — we may here go back in our minds to the six days of creation. The water is the truths with which these doctrines may be filled if we apply ourselves to studying them as the Lord commands us to do. The Lord's words to Mary, "Woman, what have I to do with thee?" are not a rebuke or a refusal. A more literal translation of the Greek is "Woman, what [belongs] to me and to thee?" The Lord was merely pointing out that the power He exercised did not come from the heredity He had assumed through Mary.

The Lord gave two commands: "Fill the waterpots with water," and, "Draw out now." We are not to be satisfied with merely knowing our doctrines in a general way; we are to learn all the truth we possibly can "hold." And then we are to use this truth in our lives and to do our best to give it to others. And it is in this drawing out that the "water" is turned into the best "wine" — spiritual truth which will delight our souls more than anything we have tasted before.

