
=== Adult

The Adults will doubtless be familiar with the usual lessons drawn from the resurrection story. These should of course be touched upon, and the summary of the post—resurrection appearances of the Lord should be mentioned. A good discussion topic is found in the last two verses of the chapter. Even New Church people are sometimes fascinated and confused by stories and moving pictures which add imagined detail to the Bible story. Another good discussion topic is the effect of false ideas of the Lord as compared with that of a true idea. Suggestions on this topic will be found in the Senior notes.

---
In our study of the Easter lesson from the Gospel of Luke, we considered especially the effect of the resurrection upon the apostles, and through them upon the world. This should be recalled, because we all need to feel the force of the external evidence of the access of divine power which came into the world with the resurrection. But the Gospel of John characteristically suggests rather the deep personal application of the story of the resurrection to the regenerating individual.

Many Christians cling to the finite humanity of the Lord, trying to picture Him as He was in the world, stimulating their imaginations with the study of the racial and historical and geographical background of His finite humanity, believing that in this way they are drawing closer to Him and understanding Him better. This effort is unconsciously epitomized in the phrase "Back to Jesus," as if the real Jesus were somewhere in the past. They feel that the historic Christ is the whole Christ. The apostles were in this belief. In spite of all that the Lord had told them, they felt that they had lost Him when His material body was laid in the tomb. In the resurrection He taught them that they were wrong, and He wishes us to see that we are wrong when we confine Him in our thoughts to the humanity which He put off.

Early in the morning, while it was yet dark, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb and discovered that the stone had been removed from the entrance. Morning always pictures the dawn of a new state, but the ignorance still in her mind is represented by the fact that it was yet dark. Mary, out of whom seven devils had been cast (Luke 8:2), represents the heart which has been deeply purified through temptations. It is a deep and loving desire for the Lord which first discovers that He cannot be confined to the sepulcher, the mere letter of the Word; but it is the faculties of the mind — pictured by Peter and John (who was almost certainly the other disciple in our chapter) - which explore the sepulcher. They saw the linen cloths which were left in the sepulcher, the truths concerning the Lord in the letter, but it was Mary again, the loving heart, who perceived the angels, the living truths within the letter. Also it was Mary who first saw the Lord Himself after His resurrection. It is the loving heart which can first be given to feel the reality of the ever-present savior, even though it does not at first recognize Him. The Lord must rise in our hearts and minds. We begin our discipleship by studying His life in the world and trying to follow His example, but if we are faithful, the time will come when we shall no longer think of Him as someone who lived nearly twenty centuries ago, but as someone who is present in the world today, walking with us and speaking to us in the Word.

The Lord rose differently from any finite man. We leave something behind us when we die; we rise as spirits with full consciousness in the spiritual world, but we have left behind us the instruments by which we saw and heard in this world. The Lord glorified even His sensuous, replacing the material substance with divine substance,* so that He left nothing in the tomb, but rose a complete man even to ultimates. "For a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have." (Luke 24:39) (@AC 10252[7], 6135; @HH 316). Through the divine humanity He sees and hears in this world, and could even eat with His disciples and be handled by them. His humanity, being divine, is infinite; so He is present with all men at all times instead of being confined in a finite body which is subject to the limitations of space and time. But His presence is not imaginary; it is the most real fact there is: "Lo, I am with you always, to the close of the age."

[*Cf., however, Athanasian Creed, nos. 161-162 (London, 1954 ed.) or @AE Vol. 6, p.519 (New York, Standard Edition, 1949). -Editor]

The Gospels record several appearances of the Lord after the resurrection. The first was to Mary Magdalene, and Matthew records that He was also seen by the other women at the tomb. That same afternoon He appeared to the two on the way to Emmaus, as recorded in Luke and mentioned in Mark. An appearance to Peter is also mentioned in Luke 24:34. Mark, Luke, and John all record the appearance to the apostles as they sat at meat on the evening of the first day, and John tells us that although Thomas was not present on that occasion, the Lord appeared to them eight days later when Thomas was present. Matthew tells of an appearance in Galilee upon a mountain where the Lord had told them to meet Him, and John gives the story of the meeting by the sea of Tiberias (or Galilee) (John 21). In Acts 1:3 we learn that the Lord was seen over a period of forty days after the resurrection, and Paul says (1 Corinthians 15:6-7) that He appeared to five hundred brethren, and also to James. Evidently the Lord provided that there should be ample evidence of His living presence in the world after the crucifixion, and that the testimony of many should be recorded. But He told Thomas, "Blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed." There is a higher sight than that of the eye, and a deeper hearing than that of the ear. If our minds accept the Lord's truth and our hearts receive His life, we have a far deeper conviction of His presence than if we were to see Him with the physical eye. Most of those who saw Him in the flesh rejected Him. Many things which we see and hear in the world make little impression on us because we are not interested in them. Those who do not wish to recognize and obey the Lord simply refuse to believe the testimony of those who saw Him after the resurrection. If they had a vision of Him themselves, they would soon explain it away. Belief is of the will. We are free to choose the Lord or self.

John tells us (John 20:30-31) that the testimony which he has just recorded is not the only evidence of the Lord's deity, but that He did many other signs, and in the last verse of his Gospel (John 21:25) he says that if all the acts of the Lord were written, the world itself would not contain the books.

The Lord's earthly life was one of constant active service. We are told that He went about all Galilee teaching and preaching in the synagogues and healing the sick. Only a very few of His words and deeds are recorded, but these few are so chosen through divine providence that, in the letter, they illustrate all phases of His work, and in the spirit they contain the fullness of divine life. We should be willing to accept the wisdom of divine providence in this selection. In the early part of our lesson we spoke of the tendency to cling to the finite humanity of the Lord as the whole Christ. It is this tendency which causes many to waste time and effort - however sincere and reverent the intention — in trying to reconstruct by means of imagination plus historical studies, portions of the Lord's life which are not recorded in the letter; for example, to picture the Lord as a boy among other boys in Nazareth or as a young man working in Joseph's carpenter shop. Had there been any spiritual value in such thoughts of the Lord, the facts would have been recorded in the Word. Let us rather learn the facts which the Lord Himself considered it necessary for us to know about His earthly life, and not confuse His own picture of Himself with human imaginings, which tend to tie Him down in our minds to the plane of finite humanity. Then the Lord will gradually rise in our minds until we come to see Him as our living, present savior, God with us.

