
=== Intermediate

There are a number of correspondences here around which to build the lesson for this class. The principal thought to stress is the necessity of rising above earthly ideas. Carry this out in its application to our thoughts of death, if the young people are at all uncertain about this.

At the end of the nineteenth chapter of John we are told that after the crucifixion two members of the high court of the Jews, Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus (see Luke 23:50 and John 3:1), with the consent of Pilate, the Roman governor, took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in linen cloths with spices [cf. Mark 16:1, Luke 24:1], according to their burial custom, and laid it in a new tomb. Matthew 27:60 tells us that the tomb belonged to Joseph of Arimathea and that after the burial he rolled a great stone in front of the door. We learn still more about this stone from Matthew 27:62-66.

In our Palm Sunday lesson we learned something of the reason why the Lord had to pass through death. In the Word, burial and a tomb, in the case of a good person, represent resurrection and regeneration. We can understand this most easily if we try to put ourselves in the place of the angels who welcome people into the spiritual world, who see the person awaking there just about the time when his grave in this world is being closed. The ideas which we in this world have about the person who has left us are pictured by the linen cloths in which Joseph and Nicodemus wrapped the body of Jesus before they laid it in the tomb. The spices represent truth also, but more interior truth which comes from goodness in the heart. Both Joseph and Nicodemus believed in the Lord and were trying to do right, although their thought of Him was entirely of His earthly life, which now seemed at an end.

In all four Gospels we learn that it was the women who first discovered that the stone had been rolled away from the entrance to the tomb and that the Lord's body was no longer there. Women represent affections. A stone, in a good sense, represents truth in its basic or lowest form. In this case it represents the truth which had been wrongly used by the Lord's enemies to make sure that He would "stay buried." They had falsified the letter of Scripture by making it mean what they wanted it to mean. In Matthew 28:2 we are told that there was a great earthquake and that the angel of the Lord rolled back the stone from the door. All the thinking of the world was upset eventually by the resurrection of the Lord. The women first discovered it because it is love in the heart which makes it possible for the Lord to show anyone the real truth. The women then told the men — just as our affections, if they are good, enable our minds to see.

When we die, we go on living in a spiritual body. The body we lived in here in the material world we leave behind us, but it lasts - at least in part — a good many years after we have left it, although it no longer has any life. We rise from death only in the spiritual world. But the Lord continued to be in contact with this world. He was seen and recognized by the women, by the disciples, and later by many others. And there was no material body left in the tomb. Yet Mary at first did not recognize Him; He appeared to the disciples suddenly although the doors were closed; and we remember from one of our lessons from Luke that the two disciples who walked with Him to Emmaus did not recognize Him until they began to eat with Him. All through His life in the world the Lord had been putting forth from the Divine within Himself a human nature to replace the finite nature which He took on from Mary. As He overcame each temptation, He put off that bit of the finite and replaced it with the Divine. Someone long ago compared this process with drawing out one thread at a time in a piece of cloth and in its place weaving in a thread of gold, until finally the whole piece would be gold instead of cloth. So when the Lord rose, there was nothing left of the human He had assumed — even of the material body — but He had a divine humanity in its place in which He could always be present in the natural world. His last words in the Gospel of Matthew are: "Lo, I am with you always, to the close of the age." The Lord, unlike spirits and angels, sees and knows everything that goes on in this world because He is present in it in His divine humanity.

The only things that were left in the tomb were the linen cloths and the napkin, which had been about His head. The linen cloths represent the truths about the Lord which we find in the literal sense of the Word, and the napkin the memory of His external life on earth as it is recorded in the Gospels. These are what are left to us to pick up and examine as evidence of the truth. Read John 20:31.

We should all study and remember the little incident about Thomas in John 20:24-29. The kind of person today who likes to say, "Well, you'll have to show me" is sometimes called a "doubting Thomas." The Lord did "show" Thomas by appearing to him just as Thomas wanted to see Him, but He did not praise Thomas for his very earthly idea. The Lord "appears" to every good person just as the person has learned to think of Him, but He does not want us to confine our thoughts of Him to material ideas. This is what is meant by His words to Mary in John 20:17 as well as by His final words to Thomas in John 20:29. As we learn more and more of the Lord from the Word, our idea of Him should rise higher and higher, lifting us above the level of earthly thoughts and ambitions.

