
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Do more in this class with the events of Holy Week before you go on to the lesson proper. At this age especially children need to be impressed with the facts of the Lord's life and with the assurance of His continued presence in the world.

---
What kind of animal did the Lord ride to enter Jerusalem the last Sunday of His earthly life?

How did the people receive Him?

What did they carry in their hands? What did they shout?

What did they think the Messiah would do?

What did the Lord know would happen?

What parable did He tell to explain why He had to die?

You would think, wouldn't you, that the Lord's disciples would have understood Him? But the ideas of life and death which were in their minds were very much like those of the rest of the people. When we are born, we do not have any knowledge of the Lord or of heaven, and unless we are taught these things when we are children, we grow up thinking that this life is all there is and that death is the end of everything for us. And after we are grown up, it is very hard for us to change our habits of thought. Even if we come to see that there must be a God and a future life, it is hard for us to think of either as real, because the things of this earth seem to us the only real things. So, although the Lord had told His disciples that He would be put to death and would rise again on the third day, it seemed so impossible to them that they scarcely even remembered it.

You may remember that the Lord spent the first two days of His last week teaching in the temple, and at night went out to Bethany and lodged at the home of Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead. By Tuesday night the opposition to Him in Jerusalem had become so great that He remained at Bethany and did not enter Jerusalem again until He came for the Passover feast on Thursday evening. At that feast He instituted the Holy Supper, and after it He went outside the city to the Garden of Gethsemane to pray. There Judas betrayed Him into the hands of the officers whom the chief priests had sent to arrest Him.

When He was arrested, all His disciples forsook Him and fled, and on Friday, after He was crucified, they were completely discouraged. Their hopes had centered in Him, and when He did not save Himself from death at the hands of His enemies, they felt that they must have been mistaken in their belief in Him. They were very unhappy about it, but they had no hope. As the two disciples on the way to Emmaus said (Luke 24:20), "We trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel." You see even the disciples had been thinking of the Lord as an earthly king.

But the women who had followed the Lord had loved Him for Himself. They had not been so concerned with earthly greatness. They, too, did not expect to see Him again, but they thought of Him instead of themselves and wanted to do the last thing they could for Him, which was to prepare His body properly for burial according to their customs. That was why they came to the tomb with their spices early on Sunday morning. They could not come before, because it was not considered lawful to do such things on the sabbath.

The first one to reach the tomb on that first Easter morning was a woman out of whom the Lord had cast seven devils (Mark 16:9, Luke 8:2).

Who was this woman?

What did she find? Whom did she tell?

What did Peter find in the tomb?

What did Mary afterward see in the tomb?

Who came and spoke to her?

Whom did she at first think He was?

When did she recognize Him?

What did He tell her?

When did He appear to all the disciples?

Which one was not present?

Why would he not believe the others?

How did the Lord convince him?

What did the Lord tell Thomas, which also applies to us?

We should notice that although there was nothing of the Lord's physical body left in the tomb, and although He appeared to Thomas with the nail holes in His hands and the wound in His side, still Mary at first did not recognize Him, and He appeared suddenly among the disciples in spite of the fact that the doors were closed. We know that death is no more the end of us than it was the end of the Lord. We go right on living in the spiritual world in our spiritual bodies — just as much ourselves as ever. But there is a difference between the Lord and us. We leave our physical bodies behind us when we die, and we no longer have any conscious contact with this world except when the Lord permits us to feel our nearness to the people we love here or to others whom we can help. The Lord also put off the physical body He had taken on from Mary, but He replaced it with a divine body. So He is present in this world everywhere and sees and knows all that goes on here. We do not see Him unless He wishes us to, and when He does appear to anyone, He takes on the form in which the particular person can recognize Him.

These two special lessons we learn from Easter: death is only a step in life, and the Lord is always here with us.

