
=== Notes for Parents

On the first Easter Sunday the Lord rose from the sepulcher in which His body had been placed after the crucifixion and showed Himself to several of His followers, and during the next forty days, He appeared to the same people many times and to others also. We need have no doubt of the facts here — all history was changed by them. The Lord's resurrection not only restored the faith of His disciples but gave them courage to go out through the world and found Christian churches in many places.

For us as individuals the Easter lesson means the certainty that our life continues after the death of the body. But it means a great deal more than that. When Mary Magdalene recognized the Lord as He spoke her name, He said to her: "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father." Mary was not to think of the Lord as merely the friend and master she had known and loved in the world. He had to rise in her thoughts and be recognized as the heavenly Father Himself. Jesus had once said to Philip, when Philip had asked Him to show them the Father: "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father." We must learn to think of Jesus not as a man who lived in this world many centuries ago, but as the one God of heaven and earth, who loved us so much that He was willing to take on a human nature like ours in order to show us how to meet and overcome our temptations, and who then put it off to show us that He really is our heavenly Father and that He is not far away but present with us in all our struggles and disappointments, even though we do not see Him with our physical eyes.

Mary and the disciples did not see the risen Lord with their physical eyes. He opened their spiritual sight, as He could open ours if He found it needful for us. The body in which He rose was His divine body, with which He had been gradually replacing the finite physical body He had put on through Mary. He appeared to the disciples without coming through doors. He appeared to each one as that one was prepared to recognize Him. This teaches us a very important lesson. We see the Lord only as we prepare our minds to see Him by learning all we can about Him and obeying His teaching. If we are faithful, He will rise in our minds and will become to us "the way, the truth, and the life."

