
=== Senior

The Senior notes have been devoted principally to the question of the importance of having a true idea of God. This lesson is the one to stress, but the teacher may feel that his particular class will be helped also by some of the other points which he will find in the notes for the other classes.

We usually think of the Easter lesson as given to teach us that our life goes on uninterrupted after death and that we should therefore think of death, whenever and however it occurs, not as a tragedy but as merely the beginning of a new and fuller life for the person who has died. This is true, and it is the most obvious lesson to be drawn from the story of the Lord's resurrection. But there are also deeper and more far-reaching lessons in this story.

When the Lord was on earth, even the good people had no thought about goodness except in terms of this world. Even the apostles, who had lived with the Lord for three years and listened to His teaching, still thought of His kingdom as an earthly kingdom and felt, when He was put to death, that all their hopes were over. We see this same belief in our lesson today in the experience of Mary Magdalene. She was a woman out of whom the Lord had cast seven devils. She believed in Him and loved Him. She was not, as the disciples were, concerned about her own future now that He was gone, but the only service she could think of which she could still render Him was the proper care of His body. She was a simple woman. But there was no higher idea than this in the minds of those of the Lord's followers who had education and worldly position, as we see from the deed of the two counselors, Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, in John 19:38-42. The linen cloths in which they wrapped the Lord's body represent their natural ideas of Him, and the spices the quality added to these same ideas by the goodness in their hearts. Spices represent "interior natural truth from good." Truth which we love to learn affects us more deeply than truth we learn because we have to. The people of those days knew the truths of the letter of the Word, but only a few of them loved them. The stone which sealed the tomb was the truth of the letter of the Word falsified by the interpretation of it by the religious leaders.

The Lord's resurrection was first discovered by the women, who represent affections, and they made it known to the men. Unless our hearts are loving, we can never be given any spiritual insight. Mary Magdalene was the first actually to see the Lord after His resurrection, although she did not immediately recognize Him. She knew Him when He pronounced her name. In the Word a name represents the whole quality of a person. Only the Lord knows the quality of each one of us. Then the Lord said to Mary: "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and to your Father; and to my God, and your God." Here again the Lord was pointing out to His followers by means of one who truly loved Him that their thoughts of Him must be lifted above the level of the worldly ideas they had had, until they could identify Him with God rather than with man.

All our thinking as we go through life really depends upon our idea of God. If, as many do, we think of God as merely the sum total of the forces of the natural world, then all our ideals and aspirations will be for worldly success, and even if we mean to be good and useful people, helping people physically will be the best we can do. If, as the people of the Gospel did and as some sects do today, we think of God as a stern ruler and judge who wants our worship and sacrifices and takes revenge upon us and punishes us if we do not give them, then in our dealings with fellow men we shall think these same things justifiable. If we think of God as merely the first cause, someone or something which created the first material cell and left it to develop according to certain laws, we shall think that every man must determine for himself what he should believe and do and that one man's idea is as valid as another's — that there is no such thing as fixed truth. We are in this same position if we think that there is a God active in the universe but that we can know nothing about Him.

Then among Christians there is the problem of what to believe about Christ. Many Christians — people who accept Christ as their example — still think of Him only as the best man who ever lived. This leaves them free to take what they like of His teaching and say of what they don't like, "He was of course limited by His nation and His times; if He were living here and now, He would speak differently." But Christ was the Word made flesh, God Himself come into the world to live out the truth and to give us an ideal of which we might be sure, to show us that this life of ours in the world is only the beginning of our life and is important only as we use it to give our souls the truest form we can. So our thoughts of Christ must rise above the thought of Him as a man who lived a long time ago, and must be lifted up until we think of Him as God, our heavenly Father Himself. As He had told His disciples (John 16:28): "I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father." He always adapts Himself to our ability to see Him, just as He did with Thomas in our chapter, but if we study the Word and try to increase our capacity to see and understand, He rises in our minds.

And in this new age in which we live He has come again in the opening of the inner meaning of the Word, giving us the means to a rational understanding of His teachings, so that our questions may be answered. If we make use of this means, our vision of the Lord will become clearer and more wonderful all the time, the things of self and of this world will fall into their proper places, and we shall come to live — even while we are still in this world — in the light of heaven.

