
=== Adult

This is a lesson in which the teacher may well use the passages from the writings quoted in the Adult notes as the basis for discussion. Call attention to the fact that, although the seven types are discussed with reference to the beginning and mission of the New Church, they already existed before the end of the first century A.D. To find the truth for the Christian Church we must go to the Gospels, not to the decisions of later church leaders.

In the first chapter of Revelation we are given the clue to the meaning of our lesson for today: "The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches: and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches." In numbers 65 and 66 of the @AR Swedenborg says: "The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches, signifies the New Church in the heavens, which is the New Heaven. The church is in the heavens equally as on the earth; for the Word is in the heavens equally as it is on the earth, and there are doctrines from it, and preachings from it ... In the spiritual world there appears an expanse full of stars, as in the natural world, and this appearance is from the angelic societies in heaven. Each society there shines like a star before those who are below; hence they know in what situation the angelic societies are ... by 'angels of the seven churches,' is meant the entire church in the heavens, consequently the New Heaven in the aggregate. And the seven lampstands which thou sawest are the seven churches, signifies the New Church on earth, which is the New Jerusalem descending from the Lord out of the New Heaven ... by 'the seven lampstands' are not meant seven churches, but the church in the aggregate, which in itself is one, but various according to reception. Those varieties may be compared to the various jewels in the crown of a king; and they may also be compared to the various members and organs in a perfect body, which yet make one. The perfection of every form exists from various things being suitably arranged in their order. Hence it is, that the whole New Church is described as to its varieties by 'the seven churches.'"

This is the ideal picture, and we note that although the church is one, there are varieties within it which are distinct, as are the societies in the heaven with which they are associated. We should keep this in mind today when we are considering the ecumenical movement. Also we should note that it is not said that the churches on earth were ideal in themselves, for the messages actually point out how far each had fallen from the ideal. And although it was undoubtedly true that the Christian organizations which by the end of the first century after the Advent had developed in the seven cities of Asia Minor were actually in the various states described in the letter of the Word, in the internal historical sense our attention is directed to the states existing in the various branches of the first Christian Church as it was at the time of the Second Coming and the conditions on which the people of these branches might be expected to respond to the invitation to the New Church. And in the spiritual sense we are to think of the various types of Christians today to whom the message of the New Church is offered and to the same types as we find them also in the organized New Church.

We should note the similarity in pattern of all seven messages: (1) the presentation of the Lord in the particular aspect which would appeal most strongly to the type of person addressed; (2) the Lord's commendation of the good characteristics of that type; (3) the pointing out of the evils to which that type is most subject, and the command to recognize these and repent; (4) the promise to each of that particular "place in the sun" which it is possible for him to attain if he does repent and regenerate; (5) the reminder that our reception or rejection of the message will be of our own free choice: "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."

Swedenborg's own words — from the contents at the beginning of chapters 2 and 3 of the Apocalypse Revealed — are the clearest and briefest possible statement of the distinct meaning of the seven churches: "To the churches in the Christian world: To those there who primarily regard truths of doctrine and not good of life, who are meant by the church of Ephesus. To those there who are in goods as to life and in falsities as to the doctrine, who are meant by the church of Smyrna. To those there who place the all of the church in good works, and not anything in truths, who are meant by the church in Pergamos. To those there who are in faith from charity, as also to those who are in faith separated from charity, who are meant by the church in Thyatira. ... (Chapter 3) This chapter treats of those in the Christian world who are in dead worship, which is without charity and faith; who are described by the church in Sardis. Those who are in truths from good from the Lord; who are described by the church in Philadelphia. Those who alternately believe from themselves, and from the Word, and thus profane holy things; who are described by the church in Laodicea. All of these likewise are called to the New Church of the Lord."

The last sentence points to the fact that each of the seven emphases can be useful in the New Church, indeed is necessary to the perfection of the church. It is only when one aspect is emphasized at the expense of the others that condemnation is pronounced. It is useful to any church to have within it some whose primary interest is in doctrine, some who emphasize good will, some who insist on good works, some who wish to define the relation between faith and charity, some who love the ritual of the church, some who are well—balanced Christians, and some whose shortcomings keep the church reminded of the necessity of self-dedication and sincere, steady devotion. But if the church is to work together in harmony and perform its full use each of these types must recognize and applaud the contribution of all the others. None must assume that his own emphasis is sufficient in itself. One of the most noticeable characteristics of both the Word and the writings is the constant insistence on the balanced life. For example, the parable of the Good Samaritan (Luke 10:30-37), which can so easily be interpreted to mean that external good works are the all-important thing, is immediately followed in the Word by the incident of Mary and Martha (Luke 10:38-42) in which Martha, who was "cumbered about much serving," is told that Mary, in sitting at the Lord's feet hearing His words, has chosen "the better part." And in the writings statements on the importance of truth and those on the importance of good works are so constantly alternated that one cannot exalt one at the expense of the other except by lifting sentences or parts of sentences entirely out of their context.

The most scathing condemnation of all is meted out to the church of Laodicea which is "lukewarm." And yet to him who overcometh in Laodicea is promised the highest reward of all, "to sit with me in my throne." Does not this point to the fact that the most universal and persistent of our temptations and the most difficult to overcome is the temptation to take the easy way, to refuse to take up wholeheartedly and courageously the Lord's cause, to see how little responsibility we can assume instead of how much, how small a contribution we can "get by with" instead of how much we can give, to travel the path of religion with our ear to the ground! It is to this church that the Lord says, "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock." To look for the easy and popular way closes the door against the Lord's truth. Read what Jeremiah says of Moab (Jeremiah 48:11). The heavenly character is not attained by "settling on our lees," by taking the easy way. The Lord gives each of us special abilities, particular opportunities, an individual use to serve, and a particular crown to attain — if we will. He has for each one of us a direct, personal message, searching and challenging — if we have ears to hear.

