
=== Intermediate

Develop in some detail, with illustrations from any one of the seven messages, the general outline suggested, and emphasize the fact that we are all different and that the Lord expects each of us to do his best to develop his individual capacities and to fight his particular temptations. Encourage the young people to read the two chapters carefully at home for themselves.

---
Everything in the Word has, in addition to its literal sense, three major inner meanings, one within the other, relating (1) to the spiritual history of the human race, (2) to the development of our own individual souls, and (3) to the life of the Lord. This is just as true of the book of Revelation as of the Old Testament and the Gospels.

In the first sense, which is called the internal historical sense, the seven churches in Asia Minor picture various types of Christian organizations which developed as a result of the spread of the Gospel by the apostles and early Christian leaders and the various types which will exist in every age. In the second sense, which is called the spiritual sense, they picture the various states in which each one of us may find himself at one time or another as to his religious life. In the third sense, which is called the celestial sense, they picture the Lord's dealing with churches or individuals in these various states, the accommodation of His love and wisdom to meet all human needs and to lead all men to the highest states which they will freely choose to attain.

In general we can see that the Lord is telling each of us in what ways he is right and in what ways wrong. This rightness or wrongness depends on how far we are "in charity and faith"; that is, how far we have the Lord's unselfish love in our hearts and the truths of His word in our minds. And these must go hand in hand. If we have more love than truth or if we have more truth than love, we fall into certain temptations and need to repent and restore the true balance. And if we recognize and fight our temptations, we prepare ourselves for the very place in heaven which will give us the greatest happiness.

Notice that in each of the messages the Lord describes Himself in a slightly different way. All the attributes He mentions are details of John's original vision of Him, but in each He stresses just the divine qualities which will most appeal to the people in the state described by that particular church. For example, to the church of Philadelphia — which, Swedenborg tells us, pictures those "who are in truths from good from the Lord" — the things mentioned (Revelation 3:7) all have to do with truth, and it said of these people that the "door" is open before them. But the church of Laodicea, which pictures those who "alternately believe from themselves, and from the Word, and so profane holy things," is reminded that the Lord is the source of all things and told to open the doors of their minds to Him. The temptation to trust in our own wisdom instead of in the Lord's truth is the deepest of all temptations, but if we overcome it, the Lord will guide all things for our eternal welfare. This is what is meant by the promise, "To him that overcometh will I give to sit with me in my throne."

Just as the Lord presents Himself in a different way to each type of person — each of the seven churches — so the promise of reward for victory is a different promise for each. Each of us has his own possibilities, his own weaknesses, and his own temptations; no two people are ever just alike. The Lord knows each one of us through and through and deals with each in a little different way, to give each the best chance of attaining the stature and place for which he was created. And He says to each one of us: "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear."

