
=== Junior

The Juniors are old enough to understand that the messages are to us as well as to the churches of long ago, although they will be interested in looking at a map which shows the location of those churches and the relative position of Asia Minor and the Holy Land. Be sure to point out Patmos. Something of the spiritual meaning can be given simply by pointing out that we are all different and that the Lord treats each of us in a special way, that we all have some good things in us which the Lord tries to encourage and some bad ones which He points out to us so that we can fight them, and that the choice of what we become must be our own.

---
Where was the vision recorded in the book of Revelation given?

To whom was it given and when?

What was the beginning of the vision?

What was John commanded to do?

What were the seven stars said to be?

What were the seven lampstands?

Find these seven cities on a map. John was in charge of the church at Ephesus, but he was probably head of all seven. Find the island to which he had been banished when he received his vision.

The business of every church on earth is to uphold the truth the Lord has given it, so that it will give light to men's minds. So each church is like a lampstand. And also each church has a special spiritual character, a living spirit which connects it with heaven and the Lord; this is its "angel" - its "messenger." It was to this living spirit in each church that John's message was given.

The seven churches were different from each other just as the churches of today are, and just as individual Christians are. Each had some virtues and some faults, and the Lord commended the virtues and pointed out the faults, and to each church He gave a special promise if it would overcome its faults. Philadelphia was described as the most faithful of them all, though there were some in it who were hypocrites. The door of heaven was said to be open to the people of this church and it was told only to hold fast its truth and goodness. Notice that those who did hold fast were to take the name "New Jerusalem."

Laodicea, on the other hand, was severely rebuked because it was "lukewarm." We are lukewarm Christians when we slide along through life not trying very hard to learn what the Lord would have us do, but always taking the way that seems to us easiest at the moment. It is to such people that the Lord says, "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock," because they are keeping the doors of their minds closed to the truths which they need. But if they will open the door and change their ways, He makes them one of the best of the promises. This is because it is very hard to overcome the temptation to take the easy way, and victory over that temptation brings a high reward. If you will stop to think, you will realize that it is the people who are willing to work hard and to stand firmly for what is right who become great.

Now read Revelation 3:13. We all have ears, haven't we? But do we always hear what is said to us? Did you ever try to hear — for instance when your mother wanted you to stop playing and do something for her? All people who really want to be good must listen and obey.

