
=== Notes for Parents

We remember that the Lord told John that the seven golden lampstands among which He stood were "the seven churches" and that the seven stars in His right hand were "the angels of the seven churches." The word angel, we recall, means "messenger." Now He gives John a special message for each of the churches.

The seven churches mentioned were actual churches. They had been founded in Asia Minor by the early Christians, and had developed especially after the destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans in A.D. 70, when the remaining apostles and their followers were dispersed. The messages sent to them by the Lord through John show us plainly that the early Christians were much like ourselves, prone to differences of opinion, to worldliness, and to spiritual laziness. We have already seen how little even the twelve apostles understood of the Lord's teachings, and how easily they were induced to save themselves rather than to remain faithful. Although the resurrection gave them new faith and courage and some of them afterward suffered martyrdom for their faith, they did not suddenly become perfect and infallible. The Christian Church almost from its beginning went astray because it looked to men for its teaching rather than to the Lord, relying on the Epistles rather than on the Gospels, and in later times basing its whole structure on decisions arrived at by men at the Council of Nicea three hundred years after the time of the Lord. We need to go to the four Gospels and the book of Revelation for our knowledge of what the Lord actually teaches.

But the messages to the seven churches are of more than mere historical interest to us. The seven churches show us seven types of people. Each one of us has his own special qualities and abilities and also his own special weaknesses and faults. The Lord sees both, and in these messages He says to us, "Hold fast the good which has developed in you, but recognize also the evil and repent and change your ways, lest you lose the place prepared for you in heaven." Each one of the churches was given a special promise if it was faithful, as each one of us has a special heavenly character which it is possible for him to attain. And we might notice that the church of Laodicea, which received the most severe condemnation because it was "lukewarm," was promised the greatest reward for overcoming its fault. This is because their fault was the hardest to overcome. Is not this same "lukewarmness" in spiritual things the besetting sin of most of us? We acknowledge what we ought to do but we excuse ourselves for not doing it. We take the easy way. The Lord is always standing at the door of our souls. We often hear His knock. But how often we are too busy with our own affairs to open the door!

The Lord has a special message for each one of us. He tells us plainly that if we go our own way, we shall find only unhappiness in the end, and that if we follow His way, it will lead us to eternal joy; but He leaves us free to make our own choice. He says to each one of us, as He said to each of the seven churches, "He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."

