
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Spend a little time recalling to the children's minds John's vision of the Lord, ending with the explanation given in the letter of the stars and lampstands. Then tell them that there really were seven churches and that the Lord gave John a different message for each one. Read them the following verses, stopping at each to make the connection with John's vision: Revelation 2:1, 8, 12, 18 and Revelation 3:1, 7, 14. Then tell them that the closed door is the little door which we close in our minds when we are naughty and do not want to hear what is right, and make the connection between this and the memory verse. Also call attention to the five similarities in all the messages, and illustrate by reading the messages to the churches in Philadelphia and Laodicea (Revelation 3:7-22).

---
The book we are studying now is about a wonderful vision which was given to the apostle John when he was an old man.

Where was John at this time?

What was the first thing he saw?

What did the Lord say about Himself?

To how many churches was John given messages?

They were the seven Christian churches which had been founded in Asia Minor, over which John was the head.

Our lesson today is about messages which the Lord gave to John for these seven churches — a different message for each church.

The Lord sees what is in the heart of every one of us — what is bad and what is good — and does His best to lead every one of us to heaven. We all have good things in us but we also have bad ones, and we cannot get to heaven unless we are willing to be told when we are doing wrong and to admit it and try to change. So the Lord told each of the seven churches what its good qualities were and also what its bad ones were and what it must do to be truly heavenly. Finally He made each church, if it would be faithful, a special beautiful promise.

Like the seven churches, each one of us does some good things and some bad ones.

So the Lord has a special message for each of us, and we need to listen and obey.

And for each of us He has some special beautiful thing in store, if we are faithful.

What two doors are mentioned in our lesson? (Revelation 3:8, 20) The open door is the door of heaven.

The closed door is the one we close in our minds when we do not want to hear what the Lord is trying to tell us.

Revelation 3:20 is a very important one, for each one of us has to choose whether he will just do as he pleases — in which case he cannot possibly get to heaven — or take the right way, the Lord's way, which is harder but which leads to true happiness. The Lord is always standing near us ready to come into our minds and hearts if we will just open the door to Him.

