
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Study with the class the meaning of each of the seven churches as stated in the quotation in their notes, discussing different types of churches in the world today and different types of minds, in the effort to help the young people to see themselves and other people more clearly. Study the message to Laodicea in more detail, showing them what is meant by "lukewarm" in their religion.

---
In the @AR Swedenborg says of the opening chapter of the book of Revelation: "This Revelation is from the Lord alone; and it is received by those who will be in His New Church, which is the New Jerusalem, and who acknowledge the Lord as the God of heaven and earth."

And he tells us there briefly, as well as in detail elsewhere, that the messages to the seven churches are messages to the churches in the Christian world: "To those there who primarily regard truths of doctrine, and not goods of life, who are meant by the Ephesian Church. To those who are in goods as to life, and in falsities as to doctrine; who are meant by the church of Smyrna. To those there who place all of the church in good works, and not anything in truths; who are meant by the church in Pergamos. And to those who are in faith from charity, as also to them that are in faith separated from charity; who are meant by the church in Thyatira. All these are called to the New Church, which is the New Jerusalem. ... They in the Christian world who are in dead worship, which is without charity and faith, who are described by the church in Sardis. They who are in truths from good from the Lord; who are described by the church in Philadelphia. They who alternately believe from themselves, and from the Word, and so profane holy things; who are described by the church in Laodicea. All these likewise are called to the New Church of the Lord." The general meaning of the messages and their application to us could not be stated more briefly and clearly than this.

With this quotation at hand each of us can study the messages in detail for himself. In making this study note that in each case the Lord identifies Himself by signs which, by correspondence, would touch a responsive chord in the minds of people of that particular character; that He calls attention to the special good qualities and the special temptations of each; and that in return for fidelity He promises a reward exactly suited to the highest desire of those of that type. Swedenborg tells us that the heavens are divided into many societies, each society being made up of congenial people and each society performing a particular use to the whole heaven which no other could perform. No two societies are alike, yet all work together in harmony because all accept the Lord alone as their God and desire above everything else to do His will.

Further we need to remember that each one of us is, as Paul said, "a temple," or as Swedenborg says, "a church in its least form." The messages are not only to groups associated into churches but to each individual who desires to be good or who in any way recognizes the necessity of religion. So as we study these two chapters, we are studying ourselves, our particular virtues and weaknesses, the particular aspect of the Lord we need to dwell on, and the particular goal of character toward which we should strive. Each one of us is a child of God and has a direct personal relationship to Him, a special set of faculties and possibilities, and a special place to fill both in this world and in heaven. Our highest happiness will be in the attainment of this place and use.

But we must also realize that the Lord has left it to our own free choice whether or not we shall strive for and attain this place. Our freedom of choice is the thing which the Lord has given us as the essential human quality, which distinguishes man from the animals, and in everything He does He guards this freedom of choice for us. It is an inner freedom — we know that many things prevent our carrying out in external life all our desires. But each of us is free to desire and to think as he pleases and to try to accomplish his own desires. Our fundamental choice is between self and the Lord. If we choose to put self first, we shall reject belief in the Lord and in His Word, so closing our ears to His warning voice. If we choose to believe in the Lord, we shall study the Word to find the way of life, and we shall find it. So each of the seven messages ends with the words, "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."

