
=== Notes for Parents

Many times in the Old Testament it was prophesied that when men had departed so far from the Lord that He could no longer reach them in any other way, He Himself would come into the world as the Messiah, the anointed one, to be their savior. As the time of the Advent drew nearer, they were also told by the prophets that a messenger would be sent before the Lord to prepare His way.

When a person has become deeply confirmed in bad habits, he cannot be made over all at once. People have been known to commit suicide because they were suddenly brought face to face with themselves as they really were and realized the full weight of their sins all at once. We need to recognize our evils little by little and fight them one by one, and gradually form good habits instead of bad and at last come to love the good.

John the Baptist was the messenger sent before the Lord to prepare His way, and John's message was, "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." The kingdom of heaven is always at hand for everyone of us who wants it, if we will do this first work of repentance. John's baptism was a symbolic picture of the cleansing of our outward lives by learning and obeying the precepts of the Word. And the further baptism which he said the Lord would give, the baptism with the Holy Spirit and with fire, pictures the entrance of the pure spirit of the Lord into our minds and of His unselfish love into our hearts after we have opened the way for Him by putting our outward lives in order. If we do our part, the Lord will always do His.

Why was the Lord baptized? He had committed no evils of which He needed to repent. John's words in verse 14 of our chapter express this thought. The Lord's answer to John in verse 15 is addressed to us also. The Lord is our example. He wished to be baptized because we should be baptized, and even if we understood no more about baptism than this, His words and example should settle any doubt in our minds as to the importance of baptism for us and our children.

But we do know more about baptism. In itself it is a holy symbol expressing the desire and intention to live a Christian life. When a grown person is baptized, he makes this profession for himself. When an infant or child is baptized, the parents promise to do all they can to bring up the child in the Christian life. Outwardly baptism introduces the person baptized into the body of Christians in the world. But it does more than this. Because it is a sacrament performed with words taken from the Bible, it also connects the person with Christian angels in the spiritual world, and makes it possible for the Lord to reach him in a new way. No one who feels his need of help in living as the Lord would have him live should neglect this divinely appointed means.

