
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: Where was the Lord born? Bethlehem

Primary: Where was He taken to save Him from Herod? Egypt

Primary: Where was He brought up? Nazareth

Junior: How old was He when He began His ministry? about thirty

Primary: Who was sent to prepare the way of the Lord? John the Baptist

Primary: How was John the Baptist dressed? camel hair garment, leather belt

Primary: What was his food? locusts, wild honey

Junior: What was his message? Repent!

Junior: Where did he baptize? Jordan

Junior: What three kinds of baptism did he speak of? water, Holy Spirit, fire

Primary: Who came to John to be baptized? Jesus

Junior: How did John feel about it? unworthy

Junior: What did the Lord tell him? "It is fitting ... to fulfill all righteousness"

Primary: When the Lord was baptized, what was seen coming from heaven? dove

Primary: What did the voice from heaven say? "This is my beloved Son"

Intermediate: What do the three kinds of baptism picture? repentance, reformation, regeneration

Senior: What are the three uses of baptism? (1) to fulfill righteousness, (2) to point way to repentance, (3) to establish Christian spiritual environment OR (1) that a person be called a Christian, (2) that he may know and follow the Lord, (3) that he may be regenerated

== THE LORD'S TEMPTATIONS — Matthew 4:1-11

This lesson should be made very practical for all the children, for they can progress spiritually only as they learn to recognize and fight against their individual temptations as of themselves. All children much of the time feel the desire to do right, but unless the desire is intelligently directed it may be wasted. The efforts of their parents must so often be exercised through correction and restraint when the children are actually in selfish and willful states that parents find it hard to put off the tone of command at other times. But in Sunday school the teacher has the opportunity to treat the children's temptations objectively while they are in good and teachable states. Show them first that temptation comes from the hells and that it is a battle between evil spirits and angels for control of their minds and hearts. And then point out that the deciding factor in this battle is their own free choice.

