
=== Intermediate

The relative correspondence of the earlier judges, of Samuel, and of the kings is the important study for this class. The correspondence of the Philistines should be touched upon and the reason why Saul was more successful against the Ammonites. The correspondence of weapons should especially be noted, as it will be important in later lessons.

Samuel was the only Judge whom all the people recognized as their leader. What do you think this means? It means that Samuel represents a truth which is meant to apply to every part of our lives. It is the truth that in every problem we have as the first thing to remember that we ought to trust and obey the Lord's commands, because our Heavenly Father is wiser than we can ever be.

The people should have been satisfied to obey Samuel, but they were not. The armies of their enemies seemed to them so strong that they could not quite believe in the Lord's power to save them. They wanted a king such as the other nations had, a king who would raise an army and lead them in battle. Samuel was displeased that the people wanted a king, because he felt they were rejecting him, but the Lord told him to let them have their way, and that the first king should be Saul. Samuel found Saul and anointed him and then, so that the people would be satisfied with the choice, he called them all together to cast lots, and the lot fell upon Saul. The people liked Saul as their king because of his appearance.

Saul was strong and brave, but he was not very wise. He meant well, but you know that people who mean well can make very serious mistakes if they act without thinking. Saul needed Samuel to guide him. Without Samuel he might have led the people into serious trouble. So Samuel lived and continued to be the Judge and the Lord's prophet almost to the end of Saul's reign.

The kings of Israel represent principles that rule our lives. They all represent the Lord's truth ruling, but we know that we see the truth in different ways at different times. For instance, when you read in the Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5:39), "But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also," your first thought is that the Lord is giving you a command to be obeyed literally, and this is the way the early Christians took it. But presently you find that there are other statements in the Bible which show that we are certainly meant to resist evil, and you begin to try to find out what the Lord really does mean by this command. If you try hard enough, you will find that the word translated "resist" really means, in the Greek, to set something against itself, so that the thought is rather "oppose not evil with evil," and what the Lord is telling us is that we should not try to "pay back" wrongs that are done to us by doing wrong in return. So even the Lord's truth can be misunderstood by hasty and superficial judgment, and yet we have to read and learn the literal statement before we can try to understand it.

Saul represents the truth as it first appears to us. He won his first battle and that made him self-confident. So when Samuel did not come to Gilgal just as soon as Saul expected him, Saul went ahead and offered sacrifices himself. Read verses 11 and 12 to see how he tried to excuse himself. He was like the thing he represents. He judged by external appearance and did not wait to be sure he was doing the right thing. So Samuel had to tell him his kingdom would not continue. Whenever we make decisions hastily without taking time to be sure we are right, we are heading for trouble. We have to learn to think carefully and to wait until we are sure.

The enemy attacking Israel this time was the Philistines. They were a very strong and prosperous people who lived in the Holy Land along the Mediterranean seacoast. They had caused the Israelites much trouble, and at the time of our lesson were really ruling over them. We can see this in verses 19 to 22 of our chapter. Agricultural tools picture truths used in developing the mind and character. In the parable of the Sower the development of plants is explained by the Lord Himself as teaching about the growth of truth and goodness in our lives. Weapons picture truths used to overcome our weaknesses and bad habits, the spiritual enemies we all have. The Philistines are one of the most dangerous of these enemies — our tendency to be satisfied with knowing what is right without doing it. Do you see how true it is that this enemy keeps us from possessing and using effectively our spiritual weapons? Even in the literal story this was a serious handicap. It meant that Saul not only had a much smaller army than the Philistines, but that his men did not have proper weapons. Saul should have known that his army was helpless by itself, and that his strength was not in his army but in the Lord. He did really know it, for he felt that he must make sacrifices to the Lord before he went into battle; but his fear made him forget that he and his people had been solemnly warned by Samuel (1 Samuel 12:20-25) that they must obey the Lord in all things.

The story of Saul is given us in the Bible to teach us that we must never set up our own judgment above the Lord's command.

