THE

GOSPEL ACCORDING TO JOHN,

Translated from the Greek,

AND

ILLUSTRATED BY EXTRACTS

FROM THE

THEOLOGICAL WRITINGS OF THAT EMINENT SERVANT OF THE LORD,

THE

HON. EMANUEL SWEDENBORG,

TOGETHER WITH

NOTES & OBSERVATIONS OF THE TRANSLATOR ANNEXED TO EACH CHAPTER.

BY THE REV. J. CLOWES, M.A.

RECTOR OF ST. JOHN'S CHURCH, MANCHESTER, AND FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE.

" Whoso readeth, let him understand."—Matt. xxiv. 15.

Second Edition.

MANCHESTER:
PRINTED BY HENRY SMITH, ST, ANN'S-SQUARE,

AND SOLD BY

S. HODSON. 112, FLEET-STREET, LONDON; AND BY E. BAYLIS,
ST. ANN'S-STREET, MANCHESTER.

MDCCCXXXVIII.

 
 
Table of Contents

Preface..................................................................................................................................................3
Chapter 1............................................................................................................................................10
Chapter 2............................................................................................................................................39
Chapter 3............................................................................................................................................47
Chapter 4............................................................................................................................................63
Chapter 5............................................................................................................................................72
Chapter 6............................................................................................................................................87
Chapter 7..........................................................................................................................................109
Chapter 8..........................................................................................................................................119
Chapter 9..........................................................................................................................................133
Chapter 10........................................................................................................................................139
Chapter 11........................................................................................................................................148
Chapter 12........................................................................................................................................156
Chapter 13........................................................................................................................................173
Chapter 14........................................................................................................................................183
Chapter 15........................................................................................................................................202
Chapter 16........................................................................................................................................216
Chapter 17........................................................................................................................................225
Chapter 18........................................................................................................................................233
Chapter 19........................................................................................................................................239
Chapter 20........................................................................................................................................248
Chapter 21........................................................................................................................................256

2

Preface

THE general design of the following pages is to illustrate the divine declaration of JESUS CHRIST to 
his disciples, where he says, The words that I speak unto you are spirit, and are life, John vi. 63, by 
pointing out more distinctly what is to be understood by the spirit and life which replenish and 
constitute the words of the GREAT SAVIOUR, and by thus endeavouring to supply the reader with a 
just idea of the proper discriminate marks and characters of those two grand essentials of divine 
inspiration and revelation, called Spirit and Life,

In connection with this general design is also a particular one, resulting from the above declaration
of the INCARNATE GOD, respecting the constituent principles of his most Holy words, and resolving 
itself into these three several points,—

1st, To demonstrate the sanctity and divinity of the inspired writings, and in what that sanctity and 
divinity consist, as manifested in the above divine declaration, The words that I speak unto you 
are spirit and are life.

2dly, To prove the high authority stamped on the theological writings of the Hon. E. Swedenborg, 

in consequence of their bearing so faithful and luminous a testimony to that sanctity and divinity 
so manifested; and

3dly, To exhibit the sublimity, purity, and edifying tendency of that rule of doctrine and of life, 
which will be found in the extracts from the above theological writings as collected in the 
following work.

In regard to the first of these points, viz. the demonstration of the sanctity and divinity of the 
inspired writings, and in what that sanctity and divinity consist, as manifested in the above 
declaration, THE WORDS THAT I SPEAK UNTO YOU ARE SPIRIT, AND ARE LIFE, it may be observed, 
that the divine declaration extends, not only to the words spoken by JESUS CHRIST in the New 
Testament, but likewise to what is recorded in the Old, since both Testaments are acknowledged to 
be alike the WORD, or SPEECH of the MOST HIGH, and consequently both must be alike replenished 
with the same divine principles, called by the GREAT SAVIOUR Spirit and Life. The grand question 
then is, what are these principles, and in what do they consist? What is this Spirit, and what this 
Life, which constitute the very soul and essence of all the words of GOD ? But who can give a 
serious and satisfactory answer to this question, without being forcibly struck with the conviction, 
that when a divine speaker declares, The words that I speak are spirit and are life, he must of 
necessity mean by the terms spirit and life a divine spirit and a divine life, since it is impossible to 
suppose that any other spirit and life, except what is divine, can influence the words of a DIVINE 
SPEAKER, so as to constitute their essential properties? Who again can give a serious and 
satisfactory answer to the above question, without being struck as forcibly with another conviction, 
that the terms spirit and life, when applied by a divine speaker, involve in them distinct divine 
principles, so that spirit is to be understood as expressive of one divine principle, and life as 
expressive of another, otherwise the two terms would be a useless tautology, altogether unworthy of
a DIVINE SPEAKER? Again, who can give a serious and satisfactory answer to the above question, 
without discerning, as by a noon-day light, that spirit and life, according to their distinct 
signification, and as distinctly applied by a DIVINE SPEAKER, must of necessity mean the same 
things as DIVINE WISDOM and DIVINE LOVE, or DIVINE TRUTH and DIVINE GOOD, since the 

3

GODHEAD, we are assured, is both, and may therefore be called the divine union of both in their 
infinity and eternity? The conclusion then from the above premises is, (and a more important 
conclusion cannot be conceived by man,) that every part of the revealed Word, both of the Old and 
New Testament, is filled with the divine wisdom and the divine love, or with the divine truth and 
divine good, of the MOST HIGH GOD, in indissoluble union, this being its very inmost soul and 
hidden essence, whilst the letter or history is merely its external body and manifested existence.

From the above consideration then may be clearly discovered the sanctity and divinity of the 
inspired writings, and in what that sanctity and divinity principally consist. For if the divine 
wisdom and divine love, or the divine truth and divine good, are the very essential spirit and life of 
those writings, conjoined with them as soul is conjoined with body, or as human thought and 
affection are conjoined with human speech, then how plain is it to see that GOD himself, who is the 
very union itself of divine wisdom and love, or of divine truth and divine good, is one with those 
writings, and so incorporated in them, (if we may use the expression,) that it is impossible to put 
them asunder! But if the GREAT and HOLY GOD be thus incorporated in his written Word, so that the
letter or history of that Word is only the body, the husk, or shell, of which he himself is the living 
soul, the vital seed or kernel, then what language can sufficiently express, or what idea fully 
conceive, the sanctity and divinity of the inspired records? Then how ought we to bow down in 
humiliation and devout reverence before the sacred volume, as before the MOST HIGH GOD himself,
who is present in it! Then how ought we to exclaim with the patriarch of old, Surely the Lord is in 
this place, and I knew it not; this is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of 
heaven! Gen. xxviii. 16, 17. And then too, observing how the letter or history is only as a kind of 
casket, to contain the jewels and treasures of the divine love and wisdom deposited and concealed 
within, how cautious ought we to be, either of mistaking the casket for its rich contents, or of fixing
our eyes so intently on its beauty and its lustre, as to overlook and become blind to what gives it all 
its value, viz. the divine presence, will, wisdom, intelligence, and operation of the MOST HIGH and 
HOLY GOD!

From the above view then of the sanctity and divinity of the sacred Scriptures, it will be manifest to
every considerate mind that they carry along with them their own internal testimony, or a full and 
satisfactory evidence of their divine original. For as when the sun of this world shineth in his 
strength, enlightening the eyes of men with his cheering light, and enlivening their bodies with his 
quickening and reviving heat, no other proof can be wanting either of the sun's existence, or of the 
properties and qualities by which that grand luminary is distinguished from all other objects, so it is
likewise in regard to the REVEALED WORD. No other proof can be wanting of its sanctity and 
divinity, or that it is indeed the living WORD of the MOST HIGH, but the blessed effects which it is 
calculated to produce in every well-disposed mind. For doth the light of the sun, when enlightening 
the eye of the beholder, convince him most effectually, and beyond the force of any other argument,
that it is the sun? In like manner, the light of divine truth, shining forth from that GLORIOUS BEING, 
who at once hides and manifests his divine countenance in his HOLY WORD, convinces the simple 
and sincere that it is divine truth, so that no other argument can be wanting to confirm their faith. 
Doth again the sun's reviving warmth confirm the proof of his existence and astonishing properties, 
by exciting combined wonder, adoration, and delight in all who are made sensible of the power of 
his quickening beams? In like manner, and for the same reason, there is a warmth of heavenly love 
and charity, issuing from the bosom of the FATHER OF MERCIES, and dispensed to his humble and 
teachable children through the quickening beams of his MOST HOLY WORD, which brings along 
with it such an addition and powerful conviction of its sanctity and divinity, that all doubt and 
uncertainty vanish, whilst wonder, adoration, and joy announce the presence, and prove to a 
demonstration, the mercy, love, and benevolence of the DIVINE BEING, whose sacred residence it is, 

4

whose instructive language it speaks, and whose manifold divine blessings it is the medium of 
communicating to his penitent and believing children.

To exhibit then this eternal evidence of the sanctity and divinity of the sacred scriptures, is the first 
particular object aimed at in the following pages. And since this evidence is principally derived 
from the numerous extracts selected from the theological writings of the Hon. E. Swedenborg, by 
which extracts it is made clear to demonstration, that under the letter and history of the inspired 
volume, there is contained an internal or spiritual sense, which constitutes the very spirit and life of 
the Holy Book, therefore a second particular object is to demonstrate the high authority stamped on 
those writings, as resulting from this their sacred and edifying testimony.

To say all that might be said on this subject, would require a volume, which is now become the less 
necessary, since so many volumes have already been written upon it, all of them carrying with them
a fulness of conviction to the serious and well-disposed mind. But there is one feature of note and 
excellence in the character of the enlightened author under consideration, which perhaps has not 
heretofore been sufficiently insisted on, and which, as being more immediately connected with his 
general interpretation of the sacred Scriptures, and especially with his particular comments on the 
following Gospel, it may not be improper here to advert to, and dwell on. The feature alluded to is 
the author's grand discovery of the distinction existing between the two eternal principles, which he
calls the GOOD and the TRUE, together with the eternal relationship of those principles to each other;
their perfect and everlasting union in the divine mind, and also in the divine Word; their 
conjunction likewise in the heavens, or in the minds of the heavenly inhabitants; their conjunction 
too in every created subject in the world of nature, together with their proposed conjunction in the 
minds and lives of men, with a view to render them also capable of heavenly and eternal 
association and bliss; and lastly, their manifestation in the distinct natures and qualities of the two 
sexes, from which result the nature, necessity, sanctity and bliss of married life.

If then it be a fact that the above eternal distinction between the GOOD and the TRUE was never 
before noted, or at least never before insisted on, by any human writer; if it be a fact also that the 
distinction, as it is extended and elucidated by the enlightened author of the following Extracts, 
involves in it lessons of the deepest and most important wisdom, by opening the intellectual mind 
to the true knowledge of the MOST HIGH GOD; by proving, with irresistible and heretofore unknown 
evidence, the divinity and sanctity of his REVEALED WORD; by manifesting the heavenly principles, 
their distinctness, and yet their conjunction, which constitute the holiness and bliss of angelic life; 
by conducting man to a more intimate acquaintance with himself, as created to he the receiver of 
those principles conjointly, thus as gifted with a will for the reception of heavenly good, and with 
an understanding for the reception of heavenly truth; by thus further instructing him in the full 
measure of his religious duties, all which have relation to the formation of those principles, and to 
their perfect conjunction in his mind and life; by exhibiting a clearer view of the wonderful works 
of the GREAT CREATOR in this lower world, in which even every grain of sand is stamped with the 
divine marks and characters of the conjunction of the above divine principles; and lastly, by 
demonstrating the divine origin and sanctity of married life, the partners of which stand, each of 
them, in a distinct relationship to those principles, and thus in the blessed capacity of being fully 
united with each other according to such Holy relationship; — if all this, it is contended, be true, 
(and who but a stranger to our enlightened author can dispute the truth?) then what further 
argument can be wanted in favour of the high authority by which his pen was directed, and thus of 
that divine and merciful providence which gifted him with the extraordinary powers, first, of 
discovering the above wonderful distinction, so as to discern and comprehend it clearly in his own 

5

mind, and secondly, of unfolding, for the edification of others, all its most interesting and edifying 
results, applications, uses, and benefits?

Doth the reader still doubt and dispute the above authority? Then, in the spirit of humble and 
devout prayer to the FATHER of MERCIES, and with a mind divested of all worldly and selfish 
prejudices, let him peruse attentively and seriously the extracts from the theological writings of the 
enlightened author, which are contained in this volume. Let him in this spirit view their testimony, 
first, as a spiritual telegraph, announcing blessed tidings from afar respecting the divine mind and 
the angelic kingdom, or (to change the allusion) as a grand panorama, in which may be seen all the 
wonders and beauties of creating, preserving, redeeming, and regenerating wisdom and love. Let 
him next examine it as a mental kaleidoscope, in which the apparent incoherencies, Contradictions, 
and scattered senses of the letter of the Sacred Scriptures, are presented to the delighted eye in all 
the symmetry, order and harmony of the most affecting and beautiful arrangement. Let him lastly 
regard it as a golden wedding ring, intended for the finger of the Bride, the LAMB'S Wife, as a 
symbol of her eternal and happy conjunction in life and love with her DIVINE HUSBAND, and not 
only so, but as a representative figure of the conjunction of his divine love and divine wisdom in all
the subjects of creation, whether great or small. Let him then ask himself the following questions, 
and answer them, in the sanctuary of conscience. Is it possible for any mortal of himself, to invent 
and fabricate such wonderful instruments? For can any mortal, of himself, remove the face of the 
covering cast over all people, and the veil that is spread over all nations? (Isaiah xxv. 7.) Can any 
mortal, of himself, be found worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof, (Rev. v. 2.) so 
as to present it to the view of his fellow-mortals, in its transfiguration glory, full of light, full of 
power, and of consolation? Can any mortal, of himself, thus enable the blind to see, the deaf to hear,
the lame to walk, and the dead to rise? (Matt. xi. 5.) Let then the above impossibilities decide the 
question of authority in the present case, by conducting the reader to its divine source, until all 
doubt, all dispute, all uncertainty on the occasion, be lost in the animating confession of the Holy 
one of old, this is the LORD'S doing, it is marvellous in our eyes. This is the day which the LORD 
hath made, we will be glad and rejoice in it, (Psalm cxviii. 23. 24.)

But should any fluctuation still remain in the reader's mind concerning the testimony in question, it 
is humbly hoped that it will be entirely appeased by a view of the sublimity, purity, and edifying 
tendency of that rule of doctrine and of life, which will be found in the following extracts, and 
which is the third point of consideration intended to be insisted on in the present publication.

This rule of doctrine and of life results from the distinction between the two principles of the GOOD 
and the TRUE above adverted to, and is in continual connection with it, As a rule of doctrine 
therefore it teaches, first and principally, that the LORD and SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST, in his 
GLORIFIED or DIVINE HUMANITY, is the SUPREME and ONLY GOD, since when this SAVIOUR saith, 
My words are SPIRIT, and are LIFE; and again, I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life, (John xiv. 6.) 
he must of necessity be understood to mean that he is the SUPREME GOOD and SUPREME TRUTH in 
indissoluble union. For that he is the SUPREME TRUTH, is evident from his own words, and that he is
also the SUPREME GOOD, is equally evident from his calling his words Life, and himself the Life, 
inasmuch as the life, on this occasion, as applied by the INCARNATE, GOD, must of course involve in
it all that is good, merciful, compassionate and benevolent in the divine mind. But if JESUS CHRIST 
be indeed the SUPREME GOOD and SUPREME TRUTH in indissoluble union, then it must follow as a 
sure and indisputable conclusion, that he is the GREAT and ONLY GOD, otherwise it must be 
maintained that two divine Beings exist, who are each of them the SUPREME GOOD and SUPREME 
TRUTH, which is the same thing as to insist that there are two independent Gods; for what is GOD, 
but the SUPREME GOOD and SUPREME TRUTH?

6

Having thus then established this essential point of Christian doctrine, and this by an evidence as 
manifold as it is incontrovertible, which no sophistry of man can elude, because grounded in and 
confirmed by the sure testimony of the inspired oracles throughout, the enlightened author of the 
Extracts next proceeds to shew, from the same distinction between the GOOD and the TRUE, what 
that rule of life is, which is obligatory on all Christians, as being alone conducive to purification, 
regeneration, and final salvation. Nothing can exceed the simplicity and consistency of this rule, 
except its admirable adaptation to the Being for whose use it is intended. For what shall we say is 
this being, and what is his proper quality and character? Is he is not born into evil and error of every
kind, loving himself and the world more than GOD and his neighbour, and calling nothing good or 
true but what tends to confirm him in such polluted love? How then is such a being to be reformed, 
purified, and finally saved? In other words, how is such a being to be made a lover of GOD and of 
his neighbour? How, (saith the enlightened author of the Extracts) but by first receiving heavenly 
truth from the Word of GOD in his understanding, and by next suffering the light of this truth to 
conduct him to the purity of heavenly good in his will, that so he also, like his DIVINE LORD, may 
attain, in his measure, the conjunction of those two divine principles in his mind and life, and may 
thus become a living image and likeness of his GREAT CREATOR, as by creation he was intended to 
be?

Behold here then the short, but sure and infallible rule of life, pointed out in the following extracts, 
as the direct path to holiness and to bliss! Man, it is there insisted on, can never become either Holy
or happy, but by conjunction of life and love with the adorable fountain of life and love, the LORD 
and SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST. But conjunction of life and love with Jesus Christ implies, first, that 
man knows what is good and true; and secondly, that he loves it; and thirdly, that from knowledge 
and love conjoined he performs, or practises it. It is necessary then that every man, who is desirous 
of attaining that blessed conjunction, should in the first place read diligently the Word of God, until 
his understanding be enlightened by the light of the Eternal Truth, and in the next place should 
suffer that truth to enter into his will or love, where it changes its name, and becomes the Supreme 
Good. But with this blessed view it is essentially necessary that he should suffer the truth to make 
manifest his natural evils, and when they are manifested, that he should enter manfully into the 
combat against them, otherwise the truth remaineth alone and unproductive, not being conjoined 
with its good, inasmuch as good cannot enter, until evil be first removed. It is further necessary that 
he should acknowledge, humbly and gratefully, that all truth and good are from Jesus Christ alone, 
and given to man for the blessed purpose of effecting eternal conjunction with that Great and Holy 
God. And lastly it is necessary, that he should give full and free operation to those heavenly 
principles, by fulfilling all the duties of his station in life, according to their just and reasonable 
acquirements. Thus it will be seen, that man's justification and salvation are not of himself but of 
the Great Saviour, because they are not of faith alone, nor of charity alone, nor of good works 
alone, but of all united, and not of all united, unless they are also united with Jesus Christ, by the 
humble and grateful acknowledgment, that all faith, which is of truth, and all charity which is of 
good, and all good works which, are the operation of faith and charity united, are from him alone, 
whilst man is merely a receiver of his Divine Spirit and Life, or of his Divine Truth and Good, and 
co-operates with him in the formation and fruitfulness of those heavenly principles, by ceasing to 
do evil, and learning to do good. Thus too it will be further seen how groundless, and therefore how
dangerous, is the modern doctrine of salvation by faith alone, which is the same thing as salvation 
by knowledge alone without the life of knowledge, or by light in the understanding whilst the will, 
or love, remains unchanged, and consequently defiled with every uncleanness and abomination.

7

Having thus then pointed out the design of the following pages both generally and particularly, it 
only remains for the translator to make a few remarks on his new translation of the Gospel from the
original Greek, and also on the internal sense as it is given in a series.

And first, in regard to the translation, the translator thinks it proper here to repeat what he some 
years ago observed concerning his translation of the Gospel according to Matthew, viz. "that he has 
endeavoured to make it as literal as possible, consistent with the different idioms of the two 
languages, and therefore the English reader will not be surprised at finding some deviations in this 
respect from the common version, especially where a regard to the internal sense made it necessary 
to adhere closely to the letter of the original. Nevertheless, the translator must still lament the 
imperfection of his translation, arising in some cases from the want of English terms to express the 
Greek ones, and in other cases from the undefined and indistinct sense of the English terms, which 
on that account are inadequate to express the distinct ideas suggested in the original Greek."

Secondly, as to the internal sense in a series, the translator perhaps is bound to make some apology 
for obtruding it on the public attention, especially as he has been informed, that a few respectable 
individuals of the New Church regarded such obtrusion as presumptuous, when it first made its 
appearance in the publication of the Gospel according to Matthew. The translator has not forgotten 
this charge, nor been unaffected by it, insomuch that he had nearly made up his mind never to incur
it again, in any future translation of any of the other Gospels. This purpose however has been over-
ruled by the opinion of several judicious friends, and particularly of the printing society in 
Manchester, whose sentiments were requested on the subject and who were unanimous in their 
wishes that the internal sense might be given in a series in the present volume, since it was their 
full conviction that many readers had derived very essential benefit from a similar series in the 
Gospel according to Matthew. The translator therefore has only to add on the occasion, that in 
giving the internal sense in the present translation, he has thought it his duty to be guided by the 
enlightened author of the Extracts, so far as his particular views were immediately discoverable, 
and in every other case to be directed by his general mode of interpreting the sacred Scriptures. 
Trusting therefore that he shall no longer be charged with presumption for doing what appears to 
him a duty, it now only remains for him to offer up his most devout prayers to the GOD of the 
church, that he will be pleased to give his divine blessing to every part of the following publication,
that so it may tend to the building of the walls of his New Jerusalem, and adding to the number of 
its blessed inhabitants, by announcing that the LORD JESUS CHRIST, in his DIVINE HUMANITY, is the 
true BRIDEGROOM and HUSBAND of the church, the ALPHA and OMEGA, the BEGINNING and the END,
the FIRST and the LAST, and that blessed are all they that do his commandments, that they may have
right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city. Rev. xxii. 13, 14.— AMEN.

8

Advertisement to the Second Edition.

THIS EDITION has been carefully revised, and many additional Extracts have been inserted.

Manchester, February 1838.

EXPLANATION

Of ABBREVIATED TITLES of the Works of Emanuel Swedenborg, from which the Extracts are made 
in the following Exposition:—

A. C.  

Arcana Coelestia.

Ap. Exp. or A. E.   Apocalypse Explained.

Ap. Rev. or A. R.   Apocalypse Revealed.

T. C. R.  

H. H.  

N. J. H. or Heav. 
Doct.  

True Christian Religion.  

Treatise concerning Heaven and Hell.

Heavenly Doctrine of the New Jerusalem.

D. L. W.  

Angelic Wisdom concerning Divine Love and Wisdom.

D. P.  

L. J.  

D. L.  

S. S.  

Angelic Wisdom concerning Divine Providence.

Last Judgment, or Babylon Destroyed.

Doctrine of the New Jerusalem concerning the Lord

Doctrine of the New Jerusalem concerning the Sacred Scripture.

Doct. Life.  

Doctrine of Life for the New Jerusalem.

D. F.  

C. L.  

Inf.  

Doctrine of the New Jerusalem concerning Faith.

Delights of Wisdom concerning Conjugial Love, &c.

Treatise concerning Influx.

9

John Chapter 1

Chapter 1

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

THAT the LORD, as to his Divine Human [principle], 
which is divine truth, existed from eternity, in 
undivided union with the divine good, which is 
JEHOVAH, verses 1, 2.

That by divine truth from the LORD was effected the 
all of creation, both natural and spiritual, thus the 
production of the all of outward nature, and likewise 
the regeneration of man, and the establishment of the
church, vs 3.

That divine truth is always in union with divine love,
and by virtue of that union is the source of all 
wisdom, intelligence, and rationality, amongst 
mankind, vs 4.

But that mankind had so immersed themselves in 
external and natural things, and thus in false 
principles, that they no longer acknowledged divine 
truth, vs 5.

That divine truth has its appointed representatives 
here on earth, amongst those who are principled in 
charity and faith, whose office it is to testify 
concerning the LORD'S Divine Humanity, and thus to 
lead mankind to acknowledge and receive it, as the 
only source of all wisdom, intelligence, and 
rationality, vs 6, 7, 8, 9.

1.

IN the beginning was the Word, 
and the Word was with GOD, and 
GOD was the Word.

2. The same was in the beginning 

with GOD,

3. All things were made by Him, and 
without Him was not any thing 
made that was made.

4.

In him was life, and the life was the
light of men.

5. And the light shines in darkness, 

and the darkness comprehended it 
not.

6. There was a man sent from GOD, 

whose name was John.

7. He came for a witness, that he 

might bear witness of the light, that
all might believe through him.

8. He was not the light, but that he 
might bear witness of the light.

9.

[That] was the true light, which 
enlightens every man that comes 
into the world.

10

That the LORD, by his divine truth, or the Word, was 
present with the Jewish church, but that he was not 
in general known and acknowledged, yet that all, 
who did know and acknowledge him, were made 
regenerate, and thus delivered from the guilt of doing
violence to charity, and of profaning truth, being 
cleansed from all the principles of evil and error, vs 
10, 11, 12, 13.

That the LORD, by assuming the human nature, and 
thus becoming a man, made himself divine truth in 
ultimates, as he had before been divine truth in first 
principles, and thus gained fuller access to man, by 
imparting a fuller measure of his divine love and 
wisdom, vs 14.

Therefore all, who are principled in charity and faith,
acknowledge from the heart, that the LORD in his 
Divine Humanity is the eternal GOD, and that all 
good and truth are from him, and that he came into 
the world to open those interior things of his Word, 
for the benefit of mankind, vs 15, 16, 17.

10. He was in the world, and the world 
was made by him, and the world 
knew him not.

11. He came to his own, and his own 

received him not.

12. But as many as received him, to 

them gave he power to become the 
sons of GOD, to them who believe 
in his name.

13. Who were born, not of bloods, nor 
of the will of the flesh, nor of the 
will of man, but of GOD.

14. And the Word was made flesh, and 
tabernacled amongst us, and we 
beheld his glory, the glory as of the 
Only-begotten of the FATHER, full 
of grace and truth.

15. John bare witness of him, and 

cried, saying, This was he of whom
I said, He that comes after me, was 
before me, because he was prior to 
me.

16. And of his fullness have we all 
received, and grace for grace.

17. For the law was given by Moses, 
but grace and truth came by JESUS 
CHRIST.

18. No one has seen GOD at any time; 
the Only-begotten Son, who is in 
the bosom of the FATHER, he has 
brought him forth to view.

They acknowledge also, that no right apprehension 
can be had of the invisible JEHOVAH, but by or 
through the visible humanity, which he assumed and 
glorified for that purpose, vs 18.

11

19. And this is the witness of John, 

when the Jews sent from Jerusalem
priests and Levites to ask him, Who
are you?

20. And he confessed, and denied not, 
and confessed, I am not the CHRIST.

Thus they testify concerning themselves, to those of 
the perverted church who are inquisitive about them, 
that they possess no truth or good of themselves, but 
only from the Word, and that from the Word all in 
the vastated church are admonished to prepare 
themselves to receive the LORD in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY, vs 19, 20, 21, 22, 23.

21. And they asked him, What then? 
Art you Elias? And he says, I am 
not. Art you the Prophet? And he 
answered, No.

22. Then they said to him, Who are 

you? that we may give an answer to
them who went us: What say you 
of yourself?

23. He said, I am the voice of one 
crying in the wilderness, Make 
straight the way of the LORD, as 
said Esaias the prophet.

24. And they who were sent were of 

the Pharisees.

25. And they asked him, and said to 

him, Why baptizest you then, if you
are not the CHRIST, nor Elias, nor 
the Prophet?

26. John answered them, saying, I 

baptize with water, but there stands 
one in the midst of you, whom you 
know not.

They testify further, that they can teach only external
truth, but that the truth itself is the LORD as to his 
Divine Humanity, who is yet unacknowledged, 
although he is the very central life of all truths, vs 
24, 25, 26.

27. He it is who, coming after me, was 
before me, whose shoe's latchet I 
am not worthy to unloose.

And has thus pre-eminence over all, since the lowest 
order of internal truth is above the highest of what is 
external, vs 27.

28. These things were done in 

Bethabara, beyond Jordan, where 
John was baptizing.

29. On the morrow John sees JESUS 
coming to him, and says, Behold 
the Lamb of GOD who takes away 
the sin of the world!

Such is the testimony of external truth, derived from 
the letter of the Word, which testimony presently 
conducts to a view of internal truth as it is in 
connection with the LORD'S Divine Humanity, by 
virtue of which internal truth confession is made that
the LORD in his Divine Humanity is the purest 
innocence, and that human disorder can never be 
removed, only so far as that innocence is implanted 
in human minds, vs 28, 29.

12

Confession is further made from internal truth, that 
the LORD, in his Divine Humanity, is the ETERNAL 
GOD, and that all good and truth are from him, and 
that he is to be made known to the church by the 
teaching of external truth from the Word, vs 30, 31.

Which truth testifies, that all the good and truth of 
faith, thus all purification and regeneration, are from 
the Divine Humanity of the LORD, and that 
consequently all internal truth is from the same 
source, vs 32, 33, 34, 35.

That they who are principled in charity, and in the 
faith of charity, have their spiritual sight opened to 
behold and to confess the LORD in his Divine 
Humanity, whom therefore they immediately 
acknowledge and obey as the only GOD, vs 35, 36, 
37.

And being led by an internal dictate in their own 
minds to explore and examine the end of all truth, or 
knowledge, they are led further to inquire after the 
good of love and charity, to which all truth and 
knowledge point, and thus attain conjunction with 
the LORD in that good, vs 38, 39.

30. He it is of whom I said, After me 

comes a man, who was before me; 
for he was prior to me.

31. And I knew him not, but that he 

should be made manifest to Israel, 
on which account I am come 
baptizing with water.

32. And John bare witness, saying, I 

saw the Spirit descending as a dove
from heaven, and it abode upon 
him.

33. And I knew him not, but he who 

sent me to baptize with water said 
to me, On whom you shall see the 
Spirit descending, and abiding 
upon him, he it is who baptizeth 
with the Holy Spirit.

34. And I saw and bare witness, that he

is the Son of GOD.

35. Again on the morrow, John stood 

and two of his disciples.

36. And looking upon JESUS as he 

walked, he says, Behold the Lamb 
of GOD!

37. And the two disciples heard him 

speaking, and they followed JESUS.

38. But JESUS turning, and seeing them 
following, says to them, What seek 
you? They said to him, Rabbi, 
(which is to say, being interpreted, 
Master) where abide you ?

39. He says to them, Come and see. 
They came and saw where he 
abode, and remained with him that 
day, and it was about the tenth 
hour.

13

That they who are principled in the good of charity 
instruct those who are principled in the good of faith,
concerning the LORD in his Divine Humanity, and 
thus conduct them to the INCARNATE GOD, by whom 
they are taught that they, who are principled in truth 
derived from good, ought to attach themselves to 
divine truth, or to truth proceeding from, and in 
conjunction with, the LORD'S Divine Humanity, vs 
40, 41, 42.

That they of the church, who are principled in 
intelligence, are next instructed to acknowledge all 
intelligence to be derived from the LORD'S Divine 
Humanity, and that when they are so instructed, they 
again instruct those who are principled in charity and
its faith, that the LORD is manifested in his Divine 
Humanity, as was predicted, vs 43, 44, 45.

Which instruction is received with doubt, until 
conviction is worked of the divine wisdom of that 
HUMANITY, by the distinction which it makes 
between spiritual good and natural good, and by 
setting the former above the latter, vs 46, 47, 48, 49.

40. Andrew the brother of Simon Peter,
was one of the two disciples who 
heard from John, and followed him.

41. He first finds his own brother 

Simon, and says to him, We have 
found the Messiah,—which is, 
being interpreted, the CHRIST.

42. And he led him to JESUS, and JESUS
looking on him, said, You are 
Simon the son of Jona: You shall be
called Cephas, which is, bring 
interpreted, a stone, (or Peter.)

43. On the morrow, JESUS willed to go 
forth into Galilee, and he finds 
Philip, and says to him, Follow me.

44. But Philip was from Bethsaida, of 
the city of Andrew and Peter.

45. Philip finds Nathaniel, and says to 
him, We have found him of whom 
Moses in the law, and the prophets 
did write, JESUS the son of Joseph 
of Nazareth.

46. And Nathaniel said to him, Can any
good thing be from Nazareth? 
Philip says to him, Come and see.

47. JESUS saw Nathaniel coming to 

him, and says of him, Behold, truly
an Israelite, in whom is no guile.

48. Nathaniel says to him, Whence 

know you me? JESUS answered, and
said to him, Before that Philip 
called you, when you were under 
the fig-tree, I saw you.

49. Nathaniel answered, and says to 
him, Rabbi, You are the Son of 
GOD, you are the King of Israel!

14

That this distinction, however, does not produce a 
conviction equal to that which arises in the course of 
regeneration, when the internal man is opened to see 
the several orders of truth in their connection with 
their divine source, by virtue of which man's ascent 
to GOD is first effected, and afterwards the descent of
GOD to man, vs 50, 51.

50. JESUS answered, and said to him, 
Because I said to you, I saw you 
under the fig-tree, believe you? You
shall see greater things than these.

51. And he says to him, Verily, verily, I
say to you, now on you shall see 
heaven open, and the angels of GOD
ascending and descending upon the
Son of Man.

Exposition.

WITHOUT a revelation from the Divine, man cannot know any thing concerning eternal life, nor 
even any thing concerning GOD, and still less any thing concerning love to, and faith in him: for 
man is born into mere ignorance, and must therefore learn every thing from worldly things, from 
which he must form his understanding: for he is hereditarily born into every evil which proceeds 
from the love of self and of the world; the delights from there prevail continually, and suggest such 
things as are diametrically contrary to the Divine: hence it is that man knows nothing concerning 
eternal life; wherefore there must necessarily be a revelation to communicate such knowledge.

That the evils of the love of self and of the world induce such ignorance concerning the things 
which relate to eternal life, appears manifestly from many within the church, who, although they 
know from revelation that there is a GOD, that there is a heaven and a hell, that there is eternal life, 
and that that life is to be acquired by means of the good of love and faith, still lapse into denial 
concerning those subjects, as well the learned as the unlearned. Hence it is further evident how 
great ignorance would prevail, if there were no revelation.

Since therefore man lives after death, and then lives to eternity, and a life awaits him according to 
his love and faith, it: follows that the Divine, out of love towards the human race, has revealed such
things as may lead to that life, and conduce to man's salvation. What the Divine has revealed, is 
with us the Word.

The Word, for as much as it is a revelation from the Divine, is divine in all and every particular 
part; for what is from the Divine cannot be otherwise. What is from the Divine descends through 
the heavens even to man, wherefore in the heavens it is accommodated to the wisdom of the angels 
who are there, and on earth it is accommodated to the apprehension of the men who are there: 
wherefore in the Word there is an internal sense, which is spiritual, for the angels, and an external 
sense, which is natural, for men: hence it is that the conjunction of heaven with man, is effected by 
means of the Word.

No others understand the genuine sense of the Word but they who are enlightened; and they only 
are enlightened who are in love to, and faith in, the LORD; for their interiors are elevated by the 
LORD into the light of heaven.

The Word in the letter cannot be understood, but by means of doctrine drawn from the Word by one
who is enlightened; for the literal sense thereof is accommodated to the apprehension even of 

15

simple men, wherefore doctrine drawn from the Word must serve them for a lamp. NJHD 249—
254.

Verse 1. In the beginning. The beginning is called the most ancient time; by the prophets 
throughout, the day of antiquity, and also the day of eternity. The beginning also involves the first 
time, when man is regenerating, for on this occasion he is born anew and receives life; regeneration
itself is hence called the new creation of man. AC 16.

Every state before man is instructed, is a commencement [initium] and when he begins to be 
instructed, it is a beginning [principium.] AC 1560.

Verses 1—14. In the beginning was the Word, &c. Few know what is here meant by the Word; that 
the LORD is meant, is manifest from singular the expressions here used: But the internal sense 
teaches, that the LORD as to the Divine Human is meant by the Word; for it is said, "that the Word 
was made flesh, and dwelt amongst us, and we saw his glory:" And inasmuch as the Divine Human 
is meant by the Word, every truth is also meant which is concerning him, and from him, in his 
kingdom in the heavens, and in his church on the earths; hence it is said, that "in him was life, and 
the life was the light of men, and the light shines in darkness:" and since truth is meant by the 
Word, by the Word is meant all revelation, thus likewise the Word itself, or Holy Scripture. AC 
2894.

Divine truth is called the Word, and the Word is the LORD, by reason that the LORD was divine truth 
itself when he was in the world, and afterwards, when he was glorified, he was made divine good, 
in which case all divine truth proceeds from him; this divine truth is light to the angels, which light 
also it is that enlightens our internal sight, which is the understanding; this sight, inasmuch as it 
does not see natural things but spiritual, has for its objects truth, in the understanding spiritual 
truths, which are called the truths of faith, but in the natural principle it has for its objects truths of 
civil life, which relate to what is just, and likewise truths of moral life, which relate to what is 
honest, and lastly natural truths, which are conclusions from the objects of the external senses, 
especially of the sight. From these considerations it may be seen, in what order truths follow each 
other, and that all and singular of them derive their origin from divine truths, which are the internal 
principles [or beginnings] of all things, their forms also hence derived their origin, for they were 
created to receive and contain: Hence it may be manifest what is meant by all things being created 
by the Word, for divine truth is the veriest essential [principle] and is the only substantial [principle]
by which are all things. AC 8861.

The Word is divine truth, which has been revealed to men, and because this could not have been 
revealed except by JEHOVAH as a man, that is, except by JEHOVAH in a human form, thus by the 
LORD, therefore it is said, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD, and GOD 
was the Word;" in the church it is a known thing that by the Word is meant the LORD, because this is
expressly said, "The Word was made flesh," &c. AC 9315.

He who understands the above words, "In the beginning was the Word," &c. as to their interior 
sense, and at the same time compares them with what is written in the DOCTRINE OF THE NEW 
JERUSALEM CONCERNING THE SACRED SCRIPTURE, and also with some things contained in the 
DOCTRINE OF THE NEW JERUSALEM CONCERNING THE LORD, may see that thereby is understood the 
very divine truth itself in the Word which had before been in this world, also which is in the Word 
which we have at this day, but not the Word viewed in the expressions and letters of languages, but 
viewed in its essence and life, which essence and life from the inmost principle are in the senses of 

16

its expressions and letters; in consequence of this essential life, the Word vivifies the affections of 
the will of man, who reads it under a holy influence, and from the light of that life enlightens the 
thoughts of his understanding, wherefore it is said, "in the Word was life, and the life was the light 
of men;" this the Word does, because the Word is from the LORD, and treats concerning the LORD, 
and thus is the LORD: every thought, speech and writing, derives its essence and life from him who 
thinks, speaks, and writes, the whole man with his quality being in those things but in the Word is 
the LORD alone. AR 200.

From these words, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD," &c. it is evident, 
that the LORD is from eternity GOD, and that he is that LORD, who was born in the world, for it is 
said, the Word was with God, and God was the Word; also that without him was not any thing made
which was made; and afterwards that the Word was made flesh, and they saw him. That the LORD is 
called the Word is little understood in the church; but he is called the Word, because the Word 
signifies divine truth or divine wisdom, and the LORD is divine truth itself or divine wisdom itself, 
wherefore also it is called light. Inasmuch as divine love and divine wisdom make one, and in the 
LORD have been one from eternity, therefore also it is said, in him was life, and the life was the light
of men; life is divine love, and light is divine wisdom. This one is what is meant by "In the 
beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD, and GOD was the Word;" with God denotes in
GOD, for wisdom is in love, and love in wisdom; in like manner in another passage in John, 
"Glorify me, you FATHER, with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before the world 
was," John 17:5; where with yourself denotes in yourself; wherefore also it is said, and God was the
Word; and in another place, that the LORD is in the Father, and the Father in him; also that the 
Father and he are one. Now whereas the Word is the divine wisdom of the divine love, it follows 
that it is JEHOVAH himself, thus the LORD, by whom all things were made which are made, for from 
the divine love by the divine wisdom all things were created. 

That it is the same Word, which was manifested by Moses and the prophets, and by the evangelists, 
which is here specifically understood, may manifestly appear from this consideration, that it is the 
divine truth itself, from which the angels have all wisdom, and men spiritual intelligence; for it is 
this same Word which is with men in the world, and also with the angels in the heavens; but in the 
world with men it is natural, whereas in the heavens it is spiritual. And inasmuch as it is the divine 
truth, it is also the divine proceeding, and this not only is from the LORD, but also is the LORD 
himself. Inasmuch as it is the LORD himself, therefore all and singular the things of the Word are 
written concerning him alone; from Isaiah even to Malachi, there is not a single expression which 
does not treat of the LORD, or in the opposite sense, of what is contrary to the LORD. That this is the 
case, no one has heretofore seen, but still every one may see it, if he only knows it, and whilst he 
reads, thinks it, and moreover knows, that in the Word there is not only a natural sense, but also a 
spiritual sense, and that in this latter sense by the names of persons and of places is signified 
somewhat of the LORD, and hence somewhat of heaven and the church from him, or something 
opposite. Inasmuch as all and singular the things of the Word are concerning the LORD, and the 
Word is the LORD, because it is divine truth, it is evident why it is said, "And the Word was made 
flesh, and dwelt in us, and we saw his glory:" Also why it is said, "Whilst you have the light, 
believe in the light, that you may be the sons of the light: I am come a light into the world; he who 
believes in me, does not abide in darkness;" light is divine truth, thus the Word. On this account 
every one, even at this day who goes to the Lord alone, whilst he reads the Word, and prays to him, 
is enlightened in it. LORD 1, 2.

In the original tongue, words denote things; and the reason is, because words in the internal sense 
signify truths of doctrine, wherefore all divine truth in general is called the Word, and the LORD 

17

himself is so called in the supreme sense, because all divine truth is from him; a further reason is, 
because nothing which exists in the universe is any thing, that is, is a thing, unless it be from the 
divine good by divine truth, as is evident from John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 
was with GOD, and GOD was the Word; all things were made by him," &c. AC 5075.

Such power has divine truth, which proceeds from divine good, that by it were created all things in 
the universe; the Word signifies that truth in John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word 
was with GOD, and GOD was the Word; all things were made by him;" hence it is that miracles were 
done by Moses, for Moses represents divine truth. It is believed by the generality that the Word or 
divine truth is only speech from JEHOVAH, and a command to do so and so, and nothing more; 
whereas it is the very essential principle from which and by which are all things. AC 7678.

The Word was made flesh, &c. That by fulfilling all things of the Word, the LORD was made divine 
truth or the Word even in ultimates, is meant by these expressions in John, "The Word was made 
flesh, and dwelt amongst us, and we saw his glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the Father, 
full of grace and truth;" to be made flesh is to be made the Word in ultimates. What his quality was 
as the Word in ultimates, he showed to his disciples when he was transfigured, Matt 17:2, and 
following verses; Mark 9:2, and following verses; Luke 9:28, and following verses; and it is there 
said, that Moses and Elias were seen in glory; by Moses and Elias is meant the Word. The LORD is 
also described as the Word in ultimates by John in the Apocalypse, Rev 1:13-16; where all parts of 
that description of him signify the ultimates of divine truth or of the Word. The LORD had 
heretofore indeed been the Word, but in first principles; for it is said, "In the beginning was the 
Word, and the Word was with GOD, and GOD was the Word: the same was in the beginning with 
GOD;" but when the Word was made flesh, then the LORD was made the Word also in ultimates: 
from this circumstance it is, that he is called the First and the Last, Rev 1:8, 11, 17; 2:8; 21:6; 
22:12, 13. By this circumstance of the LORD being made the Word in ultimates, the state of the 
church was altogether changed; for all the churches, which were before his coming, were 
representative churches, which could not see divine truth except in the shade; but after the coming 
of the LORD into the world, a church was established by him, which saw divine truth in the light: 
the difference is such as between evening and morning; the state of the church before his coming is 
also called evening, and the state of the church after his coming is called morning. The LORD, 
before his coming into the world, was indeed present with the men of the church, but mediately by 
[or through] heaven, but after his coming into the world he is present with the men of the church 
immediately: for in the world he put on also the Divine Natural [principle] in which he is present 
with men: the glorification of the LORD is the glorification of his Human [principle] which he 
assumed in the world; and the glorified Human [principle] of the LORD is the Divine Natural 
[principle.] How the LORD is the Word, is understood by few, for they think that the LORD can 
indeed enlighten and teach man by the Word, and yet that he cannot hence be called the Word: but 
let them know, that every man is his own love, and thence his own good and his own truth, man not
being a man from any other source, and nothing else belonging to him being man. From this 
consideration that man is his own good and his own truth, angels and spirits are also men; for every
good and truth proceeding from the Lord is in its form a man; but the LORD is divine good itself and
divine truth itself; thus he is the Man himself, from whom every man is a man. That every divine 
good and divine truth is in its form a man, may be seen in the work concerning HEAVEN and HELL, 
HH 460. Doct. concerning the Sacred Scripture, HH 98, 99, 100. See also True Christian Religion, 
TCR 261, 262, 263, 777. See also AE 850.

When man is conceived anew, he then first begins to know that his goods are not goods; and when 
he comes more to the light, he begins to know further, that the LORD is good itself and truth itself. 

18

That the LORD is good itself, or life, and truth itself, or light, and thus that there is no good and truth
but from the LORD, is also taught in John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with 
GOD, and GOD was the Word; in him was life, and the life was the light of men; he was the true 
light, which enlightens every man that comes into the world." AC 20.

That the LORD is the Word, he teaches in John in these words, "In the beginning was the Word and 
the Word was with GOD, and GOD was the Word: and the Word was made flesh, and dwelt amongst 
us." Inasmuch as this passage has been understood in no other way than to mean, that GOD taught 
man by the Word; therefore it has been explained by an expression of elevation, which involves that
the LORD is not the Word itself: the reason is, because it was not known, that by the Word is meant 
the divine truth of the divine good, or, what is the same thing, the divine wisdom of the divine love;
that these principles are the LORD himself, was shown in the treatise concerning the DIVINE LOVE 
AND THE DIVINE WISDOM, and that they are the Word, in the DOCTRINE OF THE NEW JERUSALEM 
CONCERNING THE SACRED SCRIPTURE, SS 1 to 86. In what manner the LORD is the divine truth of 
the divine good, shall here also be briefly shown: every man is not a man from his face and body, 
but from the good of his love, and from the truths of his wisdom; and whereas man is a man from 
these principles, every man likewise is his own truth and his own good, or his own love and his 
own wisdom, and without these he is not a man: but the LORD is good itself and truth itself, or, what
is the same thing, love itself and wisdom itself; and these are the Word, which in the beginning was 
with GOD, and which was GOD, and which was made flesh. Divine Providence, DP 172.

When the LORD was in the world, and glorified his Human [principle] he first made it divine truth, 
and by degrees divine good of the divine love; and afterwards from the divine good of the divine 
love, he is operative in heaven and in the world, and gives them life, which is effected by the divine
truth proceeding from the divine good of the divine love of his Divine Human [principle] for from 
it the heavens have existed, and from it they perpetually exist, that is, subsist. Such things are 
involved also in these words in John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD, 
and GOD was the Word. All things were made by him," &c.; the Word is divine truth; the first state 
is described by the expressions, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD, and 
GOD was the Word;" the second state is described, by all things being made by him. AC 10076.

That GOD is omnipotent, omniscient, and omnipresent, by the wisdom of his love, is also meant by 
these words in John, "In the beginning was the Word," &c. to verse 14; by the Word is there meant 
the divine truth, or what amounts to the same, the divine wisdom, wherefore also it is called life and
light, and life and light are nothing else than wisdom. TCR 50.

Scarcely any one knows at this day that there is any power in truth, for it is supposed that it is only 
a word spoken by some one who is in power, which on that account must be done, consequently the
truth is only as breathing from the mouth, and as sound in the ear; when yet truth and good are the 
principles of all things in both worlds, the spiritual and the natural, by which principles the universe
was created, and by which the universe is preserved; and likewise by which man was made; 
wherefore those two principles are all in all. That the universe was created by divine truth is plainly
said in John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD; all things were made by 
him; and in David, "By the Word of JEHOVAH were the heavens made," Psalm 33:6; by the Word in 
both cases is meant the divine truth. Inasmuch as the universe was created by divine truth, therefore
also the universe is preserved by it; for as subsistence is perpetual existence, so preservation is 
perpetual creation. The reason why man was made by the divine truth is, because all things of man 
have reference to understanding and will, and the understanding is the receptacle of divine truth, 
and the will of divine good; consequently the human mind, which consists of those two principles, 

19

is nothing else but a form of divine truth and divine good spiritually and naturally organized. From 
these considerations, it may now be manifest for what cause GOD as the Word came into the world, 
and was made Man, namely that this was for the sake of redemption; for on this occasion GOD by 
the Human [principle] which was divine truth, put on all power, and cast down, subdued, and 
reduced under his obedience the hells, which had grown up even to the heavens where angels were, 
and this not by an oral word, but by the Divine Word, which is divine truth; and afterwards he fixed
a great gulf between the hells and the heavens, which none from hell can pass over. From these 
considerations, it may be manifest that the power of divine truth is ineffable; and since the Word, 
which is in the Christian church, is the continent of divine truth in its three degrees, it is evident that
this is what is understood in John 1:3, 10. TCR 224. See also the "Treatise on Heaven and Hell," 
HH 137.

That creation in the Word signifies the reformation and establishment of the church, which is 
effected by the divine truth proceeding from the LORD, is evident from the words in John 1:1, 2, 3, 
4, 5, 9, 10, 14. By the Word is there understood the LORD as to divine truth; that all things were 
created by it, is understood by all things being made by him, and without him was not any thing 
made which was made, and by the world being made by him; inasmuch as by the Word is meant the
LORD as to divine truth, therefore it is said, in him was life, and the life was the light of men, that 
was the true light; light signifies divine truth, and life all intelligence and wisdom from the divine 
truth, for this constitutes the essential life of man, and also according to it is life eternal; the 
presence of the LORD with every one with his divine truth, from which is life and light, is 
understood "by the light shining in darkness, and enlightening every man that comes into the 
world; but that they, who are in the falses of evil, do not perceive, thus do not receive it, is meant 
by the darkness not comprehending, and by the world not knowing him, darkness signifying the 
falses of evil. That it is the LORD as to the Divine Human [principle], who is here understood by the 
Word, is very evident; for it is said, "And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt amongst us, and we 
saw his glory;" glory also signifies divine truth. Hence also it is evident that to make or to create, in 
the above passage, signifies to make man new or to reform; for in the above passage, in like manner
as in the book of creation, mention is immediately made of light, by which is signified the divine 
truth proceeding, whereby all are reformed. AE 294.

"In him was life," &c, The divine sphere which proceeds from the LORD, and which is called divine 
truth, is universal, and, as was said, fills the universal heaven, and constitutes the all of life therein; 
it appears there before the eyes as light, which not only illuminates the sight, but also the mind; it is
the same sphere likewise which constitutes the understanding belonging to man: this is meant by 
these words in John, "In him was life, and the life was the light of men; this was the true light, 
which illuminates every man that comes into the world, and the world was made by him;" the 
subject treated of in this passage is concerning divine truth, which is called the Word, and that 
divine truth or the Word is the LORD himself. This light, which is divine truth proceeding from the 
LORD, was described amongst the ancients by radiant circles of a golden colour around the head and
body of GOD represented as a man; for the ancients perceived GOD no otherwise than under a 
human form. When man is in good, and from good in truths, then he is elevated into that divine 
light, and more interiorly according to the quality and quantity of good. AC 9407.

By life in the above passage is meant the divine love of the LORD, and by light his divine wisdom. 
See the "Divine Love and Wisdom," DLW 38. See also AE 151.

Verse 5. And the light shined in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. The light in this 
passage is divine truth; and whereas men, from being internal men, were become so external or 

20

natural, that they no longer acknowledged divine truth, thus neither the LORD, therefore it is said, 
that the darkness did not comprehend the light, and that the world did not acknowledge him. AE 
151.

Darkness in the above passage denotes falsities within the church: falsities out of the church are 
also called darkness, but such as may be illuminated, concerning which it is thus written in 
Matthew, "The people sitting in darkness have seen a great light, and to them who have sat in the 
region and shadow of death, light has arisen," Matt 4:16, where darkness denotes the falses of 
ignorance, such as is the darkness of the Gentiles; and in John, "This is the judgement, that light is 
come into the world, but men loved darkness more than light, because their deeds were evil," John 
3:19, where light denotes truths, and darkness falses; and where light denotes the LORD, because 
from him is all truth, and darkness denotes the hells, because thence comes all that is false. AC 
1839.

Verse 6. There was a man sent from GOD, whose name was John. In the Word there are several who 
represent the LORD as to truth divine, or as to the Word; but the principal amongst them are Moses, 
Elias, Elisha, and John the Baptist; that John the Baptist has this representation, is manifest from 
this consideration, that he is "the Elias who was to come." He who does not know that John the 
Baptist represented the LORD as to the Word, cannot know what all those things involve and signify,
which are said concerning him in the New Testament. We will here quote and explain some 
passages which are written concerning John the Baptist, as in Matthew, "After that the messengers 
of John departed, Jesus began to speak concerning John, saying, what went you out into the 
wilderness to see, a reed shaken by the wind? but what went you out to see, a man clothed in soft 
clothing? behold they who wear soft things are in kings' houses: but what went you out to see, a 
prophet? yea, I say to you, and more than a prophet; this is he of whom it is written, behold I send 
my messenger before your face who shall prepare your way before you; verily I say to you, there 
has not arisen, among them that are born of women, a greater than John the Baptist; but he who is 
least in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he. All the prophets and the law prophesied until 
John, and if you are willing to receive [it] this is Elias which was for to come: he that has ears to 
hear let him hear," Matt 11:7-15, and Luke 7:24-28: how these things are to be understood, no one 
can know, unless he knows that John represented the LORD as to the Word, and unless he knows on 
this occasion from the internal sense, what is signified by the wilderness in which he was; also what
by a reed shaken with the wind, and likewise by soft clothing in the houses of kings; and next what 
is signified by his being more than a prophet, and by none amongst those that are born of women 
being greater than he, and yet the least in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he; and lastly 
by his being Elias: for all these things without a deeper sense, are mere sounds grounded in some 
kind of comparison, and not grounded in any thing of any weight: but it is altogether otherwise 
when by John is meant the LORD as to the Word, or the Word representatively; in this case by the 
wilderness of Judea, in which John was, is signified the state in which the Word was at that time, 
when the LORD came into the world, namely that it was in the wilderness, that is, in such obscurity, 
that the LORD was not at all acknowledged, neither was any thing known concerning his heavenly 
kingdom; when yet all the prophets prophesied concerning him, and concerning his kingdom, that it
was to endure for ever: that a wilderness denotes such obscurity, see AC 2708; the Word therefore 
is compared to a reed shaken by the wind, when it is explained at pleasure, for a reed in the internal 
sense is truth in the ultimate, such as the Word is in the letter: that the Word in the ultimate, or in 
the letter, before the view of men is as somewhat rude and obscure, but in the internal sense is soft 
and shining, is signified by their not seeing a man clothed in soft clothing, behold they who wear 
soft things are in kings' houses; that such things are signified by these words, is evident from the 
signification of of clothing or garments, as denoting truths, see AC 2132, 2576; and that on this 

21

account the angels appear clothed in garments soft and shining according to the truths derived from 
good belonging to them, AC 5248; also from the signification of the houses of kings, as denoting 
the abodes where the angels are, and in the universal sense the heavens, for they are called houses 
from good, AC 2233, 2234, and kings from truth, AC 1672; therefore the angels are called the sons 
of the kingdom, the sons of a king, and also kings, from the reception of truth from the LORD. That 
the Word is more than any doctrine in the world, and more than any truth in the world, is signified 
by what went you out to see, a prophet, yea I say to you and more than a prophet, and that there has
not arisen amongst those that are born of women a greater than John the Baptist, for a prophet in 
the internal sense is doctrine, AC 2534, 7269, and they that are born, or the sons of women, are 
truths, AC 489, 491, 533.

That the Word in the internal sense, or such as it is in heaven, is in a degree above the Word in the 
external sense, or such as it is in the world, and such as John the Baptist taught, is signified by the 
least in the kingdom of the heavens being greater than he; for the Word perceived in heaven is of 
such wisdom, that it transcends all human apprehension: that the prophesies concerning the LORD 
and concerning his kingdom, and the representatives of the LORD and of his kingdom ceased, when 
the LORD came into the world, is signified by all the prophets and the law, prophesying until John: 
that the Word was represented by John as by Elias, is signified by his being Elias who was to come;
also by these words in Matthew, "The disciples asked Jesus, why do the scribes say, that Elias must 
first come? He answering said, Elias indeed shall first come, and restore all things; I say to you, that
Elias has already come, and they did not acknowledge him, but did to him whatever they willed: so 
likewise shall the Son of Man suffer of them: and they understood that he spoke to them of John the
Baptist," Matt 17:10, 13; that Elias came, and they did not acknowledge him, but did to him 
whatever they willed, signifies that the Word indeed taught them that the LORD was to come, but 
that still they were not willing to comprehend, interpreting it in favour of self dominion, and 
thereby extinguishing the Divine principle which was in it: that they were about to do the like with 
Truth Divine itself, is signified by likewise so shall the Son of Man suffer of them; that the Son of 
Man is the LORD as to truth Divine, see AC 2803, 2813, 3704. From these considerations it is now 
evident what is meant by the prophecy concerning John in Malachi, "Behold, I send to you Elias 
the prophet, before the great and terrible day of JEHOVAH comes," Mal 4:5. 

The Word is also described in the ultimate, or such as it is in the external form which appears 
before man in the world, by the clothing and by the food of John the Baptist, as in Matthew, "John 
the Baptist preaching in the wilderness of Judea had clothing of camel's hair, and a leathern girdle 
about his loins, and his food was locusts and wild honey," Matt 3:1, 3, 4: in like manner as Elias in 
the second book of Kings, where it is written, "that he was a hairy man, and girded about the loins 
with a girdle of leather," 1, 8; by clothing or a garment, when concerning the Word, is signified 
Truth Divine therein in the ultimate form; by the hairs of a camel are signified scientific truths such 
as are there before man in the world; by a leathern girdle is signified the external bond connecting 
and keeping in order all interior things; by food is signified spiritual nourishment derived from the 
knowledges of truth and good from the Word; by locusts are signified ultimate or most common 
truths; and by wild honey their pleasantness: the reason why such things are signified by clothing 
and food, is grounded in representatives in the other life; where all appear clothed according to 
truths derived from good, and where food also is represented according to the desire of knowing 
and growing wise; from this ground it is that clothing or a garment denotes truth, see the quotations 
above; and that food or meat denotes spiritual nourishment, AC 3114, 4459; that a girdle denotes a 
bond, gathering together and containing interior things, see AC 9341; that leather denotes what is 
external, see AC 3540, thus a leathern girdle denotes an external bond; that hairs denote ultimate or 
most common truths, AC 3301, 5569 to 5573; that a camel denotes the scientific principle in 

22

general, AC 3048, 3071; that a locust denotes nourishing truth in the extremes, AC 3301; and that 
honey denotes its pleasantness, AC 5620; it is called wild honey [mel agreste, or honey of the field]
because by a field is signified the church, AC 2971, 3317. He who does not know that such things 
are signified, cannot in any wise know why Elias and John were so clothed; that those things 
signified something peculiar to those prophets, every one may think, who thinks well of the Word. 
Inasmuch as John the Baptist represented the LORD as to the Word, therefore also when he spoke 
concerning the LORD, who was the Word itself, he said of himself that he was not Elias, nor a 
prophet, and that he was not worthy to loose the latchet of the LORD'S shoe; from which words it is 
evident that John, when he spoke concerning the LORD himself, who was Truth Divine itself or the 
Word, said that he was not any thing, inasmuch as the shade disappears when the light itself 
appears, or the representative disappears when the effigy itself appears; that representatives had 
respect to holy things and to the LORD himself, and not at all to the person who represented, see AC 
665, 1097, 1361. He who does not know that representatives vanish away like shadows at the 
presence of light, cannot know why John denied that he was Elias and a prophet. AC 9372.

Verses 7, 8. He came for a witness, that he might bear witness of the light, &c. Light signifies the 
divine truth; wherefore the LORD is called the true light which illuminates every man, and to bear 
witness concerning the light signifies the acknowledgement of his Divine Human [principle] from 
which divine truth proceeds. This witness is in divine truth universally as may be manifest from this
consideration, that the angels of the interior heaven cannot think otherwise of the Divine [Being] 
than under a human form, thus of the Divine Human [principle], by reason that the Divine Human 
[principle] of the LORD fills the universal heaven, and forms it, and the thoughts of the angels are 
directed and now according to the form of heaven. Hence it is that the testimony [or witness] of 
JESUS CHRIST signifies the acknowledgement of the divinity of the LORD in his Humanity. AE 27.

Verse 9. That was the true light, which enlightens every man that comes into the world. The divine 
truth, which is from the LORD, continually flows in with man, and makes his intellectual principle; 
and if you are disposed to believe it, man, without the continual influx of truth divine proceeding 
from the LORD, cannot perceive and understand any thing at all: for the divine truth proceeding 
from the LORD is the light which illuminates the mind of man, and makes the internal sight, which 
is the understanding; and whereas that light continually flows in, therefore it adapts every one to 
receive; but they who receive, are they who are in the good of life; and they who do not receive, are
they who are in evil of life; nevertheless these latter, as well as the former, are in the faculty of 
perceiving and understanding, and likewise in the faculty of receiving, so far as they desist from 
evils. This is what is meant by these words in John, "That was the true light, which enlightens every
man that comes into the world: he was in the world, and the world was made by him: but the world 
knew him not." The subject treated of in this passage is concerning the Word, which is the divine 
truth proceeding from the LORD. That every man in the world, who is of sound reason, is in the 
faculty of understanding truth divine, and hence in the faculty of receiving, so far as he desists from
evils, has been given me to know by much experience; for all both evil and good, as many as are in 
the other life, are capable of understanding what is true and what is false, also what is good and 
what is evil, but they who are evil, although they understand what is true and good, are still not 
willing to understand; for the will is repugnant, and in the will is evil; wherefore when they are left 
to themselves, they still relapse into the falses of their own evil, and hold in aversion what is true 
and good, which they understood: hence it was made evident, that the divine truth proceeding from 
the LORD continually flows in into human minds, and adapts them to receive, and that it is so far 
received as man desists from the evils which are of self-love and the love of the world. AC 9399; 
see also AC 10196.

23

Verse 10. He was in the world, and the world was made by him, &c. None can form a just idea 
concerning the creation of the universe, unless the understanding be brought into a state of 
perception by certain universal knowledges first premised, such as the following: 

1. That there are two worlds, a spiritual world for angels and spirits, and a natural world for 

men. 

2. That in each world there is a sun, and that the sun of the spiritual world is pure love from 
JEHOVAH GOD, who is in the midst of it; and that from that sun proceed heat and light, the 
heat thence proceeding being in its essence love, and the light thence proceeding being in its
essence wisdom; and these two affect the will and understanding of man, the heat his will, 
and the light his understanding: but that the sun of the natural world is pure fire, and 
therefore that the heat and light thence proceeding are dead, and that they serve as clothing 
and aids to spiritual heat and light, by which they may be conveyed to man.

3. Further, that the heat and light proceeding from the sun of the spiritual world, and 

consequently whatever exists by their means in that world, are substantial, and are called 
spiritual; and that the heat and light proceeding from the sun of the natural world, and 
consequently whatever exists therein by their means, are material, and are called natural.

4. That in each world there are three degrees, which are called degrees of altitude, and 

consequently three regions, according to which the three angelic heavens are arranged; and 
that there is a similar arrangement in human minds, which thus correspond with the three 
angelic heavens; and that other things in each world have a like arrangement. 

5. That there is a correspondence between the things that exist in the spiritual world, and those 

that exist in the natural world. 

6. That there is an order, in and according to which all and every thing in both worlds was 

created. 

7. That unless a just idea on these subjects be first obtained, the human mind may, by mere 
ignorance, be easily betrayed into an idea of the creation of the universe by nature, and 
allow nature to be created by GOD only in compliance with the authority of the church; but 
because it knows not how this was effected, if it enters upon a deeper investigation of the 
subject, it falls into naturalism, which denies the being of a GOD. TCR 75.

The angelic idea concerning the universe created from the LORD is as follows, that GOD is the 
centre, and that he is a man, and that unless GOD was a man, creation would not have been possible,
and that the LORD from eternity is that GOD. Concerning creation they said, that the LORD from 
eternity, or GOD by his divine proceeding (principle), created the universe, and all things therein, 
and since the divine proceeding (principle) is also LIFE ITSELF, that all things were created from life
and by life; and that the proximate divine proceeding (principle) is what appears before the angels 
as a sun; that this sun before their eyes appears fiery and flaming; and that the divine proceeding 
(principle) is divine love and divine wisdom, of which such is the appearance afar off; they added, 
that that divine proceeding (principle) is what the ancients effigied by golden or lucid pure circles 
around the head of GOD, and which modern painters still retain from the ancient idea. They said that
from that sun as a great centre, proceed circles, one after another, and one from another, even to the 
last, where their end is, subsisting in rest; and that those circles, of which one is from another, and 
one after another, appearing as extended into what is broad and into what is long, are spiritual 
atmospheres, which the light and heat from their sun fill, and by which they propagate themselves 
to the ultimate circle; and that in the last, by means of those atmospheres, and afterwards by means 
of the natural atmospheres which are from the sun of the world, was effected the creation of the 
earth, and on it of all things which are for use, which creation is afterwards continued by 
generations from seeds, in wombs or in eggs. Those angels who knew that the universe so created 

24

was a continuous work from the Creator even to ultimates, and that, as being a continuous work, it 
depended upon, and was actuated and governed as one work linked together by, the LORD, who is a 
common centre, said, that the first proceeding (principle) was continued even to ultimates by 
discrete degrees, altogether as an end by causes into effects; or as something producing and its 
products in a continued series, and that the continuation was not only in, but also around, from the 
first (principle), and thence from every prior (principle) into every posterior one even to the 
postreme, and that thus the first (principle), and from it the posterior (principles) co-exist in their 
order in the postreme or last. From this continuity, as a one, they have an idea concerning the LORD,
that he is all in all, that he is omnipotent, omnipresent, and omniscient, that he is infinite and 
eternal; and also an idea what the order is, according to which the LORD, by his divine love and his 
divine wisdom, arranges, provides, and governs all things.

It was asked, whence then is hell? They said, from the freedom of man, without which man would 
not be man; that man, from that freedom broke continuity in himself, which being broken 
separation was effected, and the continuity, which from creation was in him, became as a chain, or 
a linked work, which falls to pieces through the breaking and plucking to pieces of the links above, 
and afterwards hangs from small threads. Separation or breach was effected, and is effected by 
denial of GOD. DLW 127.

Verse 11. He came to his own, &c. By his own are meant those who were at that time of the church, 
where the Word was. Doc. of the LORD, 18.

By his own who did not receive, are meant those who were of the church where the Word was, by 
which the LORD could be known to them, wherefore they who were of the Jewish church are here 
meant by his own. AE 745.

Verses 12 to 14. But as many as received him, to them gave he power, &c. That faith, whether it be 
called confidence, or trust, has no effect with the evil, the LORD himself teaches in these words in 
John, "As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of GOD, believing in 
his name; who were born not of bloods, nor of "the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of 
GOD;" where the born of bloods denote those who do violence to charity, also who profane truth; 
the born of the will of the flesh, denote those who are in evils derived from the love of self and of 
the world; the born of the will of man, denote those who are in the persuasions of what is false, for 
man [vir] signifies truth, and in the opposite sense what is false; the born of GOD, denote those who 
are regenerated by the LORD, and are thence in good; these latter are they who receive the LORD, 
and these latter are they who believe in his name, and these are they to whom he gives power to 
become the sons of GOD, but not to the former; from which considerations it is evident how little 
faith alone contributes to salvation. AC 5826. See also AE 745, 802, and Doc. of Life, 17.

The will of the flesh denotes the voluntary proprium, the will of man denotes the intellectual 
proprium, the sons of God denote the regenerate, and they who are regenerated are all vivified from
the LORD'S proprium, which is the flesh and body of the LORD, and is divine good itself. AC 8409.

Inasmuch as the principle of what is false, which results from the intellectual proprium of man, in 
the internal sense is blood, and the principle of evil, which is from his voluntary proprium, is flesh, 
therefore the LORD thus speaks of the man about to be regenerated, "As many as received him, to 
them gave he power to become the sons of GOD, believing in his name, who were born not of 
bloods, nor of. the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of GOD;" hence it is that by flesh in 
general is meant every man. AC 3813. See also AC 9454, 10283; see also Doc. of the LORD, 18.

25

To them that believe on his name. That the LORD gave to these the power to become the sons of 
God, signifies that he has given heaven to those who have received from him divine truths in soul 
and heart, or in faith and life: by believing in his name is signified to receive the LORD in faith and 
life; for by the name of the LORD is signified all by which he is worshiped. AE 745. See also AC 
6674, where it is further shown what is meant by asking the FATHER in the name of the LORD, that it
means to ask the LORD himself, inasmuch as there is no admission to the divine good, which is the 
FATHER, except by the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, as is likewise known in the churches;
wherefore to ask the LORD himself is according to the truths of faith, and whatever is asked 
according to those truths, is given; from which considerations it is evident that the LORD, as to the 
Divine Human [principle] is the name of JEHOVAH.

Born of God, are they who are principled in love, and thence in faith. AC 2531.

That divine truth proceeds from the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, but not from the Divine 
itself, is an arcanum hitherto not discovered; the case herein is this, before the LORD came into the 
world, the Divine [principle] itself flowed-in into the universal heaven, and because heaven at that 
time consisted for the most part of the celestial, that is, of those who were in the good of love by 
that influx, by the Divine Omnipotence, was produced the light which is in the heavens, and thence 
wisdom and intelligence; but after the human race had removed themselves from the good of love 
and charity, then that light could no longer be produced by [or through] heaven, consequently no 
wisdom and intelligence could be produced, which might penetrate even to the human race; 
wherefore the necessity of salvation required that the LORD should come into the world, and make 
the Human [principle] in himself divine, to the intent that he himself, as to the Divine Human 
[principle] might become divine light, and thereby might illuminate the universal heaven, and the 
universal world: he had been the light itself from eternity, for that light is from the Divine 
[principle] itself by [or through] heaven; and the Divine [principle] itself was what assumed the 
Human, and made this Divine, and when this was made Divine, then from it he could not only 
illuminate the celestial heaven itself, but also the spiritual heaven, and likewise the human race, 
which has received and receives divine truth in good, that is, in love to him, and in charity towards 
the neighbour, as is evident in John, "As many as received him, to them gave he power to become 
the sons of GOD, believing in his name, who were born not of bloods, nor of the will of the flesh, 
nor of the will of man, but of GOD." From what has been now said, it may be manifest what is 
signified by these words in John, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD, and 
GOD was the Word; the same was in the beginning with GOD: all things were made by him, and 
without him was not any thing made which was made: in him was life, and the light was the life of 
men: this was the true light, which illuminates every man that comes into the world." In this 
passage the Word signifies divine truth: but that the LORD as to each essence is divine good, yet that
divine truth proceeds from him, see AC 3704; for divine good cannot be received by man, not even 
by an angel, but divine truth can be received, yet of a quality according to that of a man who 
receives, in which truth divine good can dwell, with a difference according to reception. AC 4180. 
See also AC 1608, where it is shown that the will of the flesh and will of man are what disjoin, but 
that love and the faith thence derived are what conjoin; wherefore they, who are principled in love 
and the faith thence derived, are they who are born of God; and because they are born of God, they 
are called sons of God, and are his seed, to whom appertains the heavenly kingdom.

They are called sons of God, and said to be born of God, who are not in the proprium of their own 
will, and thence not in the proprium of their own understanding, that is, who are not in evil, and 
thence in the false, and that these are they who believe in the LORD, he himself teaches in John 
1:12, 13. The conclusion is, that with man there is not a grain of truth given more than good is 

26

given, thus not a grain of faith more than life is given: there is given indeed the thought that it is so 
in the understanding, but not the acknowledgement which is faith, unless there be given consent in 
the will. Thus faith and life keep pace together. Doc. of Life, 51, 52.

In heaven no other nativity or birth is understood than what is called regeneration, which is effected
by the truth of faith and the good of charity; by this nativity from sons of men they become sons of 
the LORD, or those who are said to be born of God, John 1:13. According to the varieties of good 
derived from truth, and of truth derived from good in that nativity, are fraternities or 
consanguinities and affinities in heaven; for in heaven there are perpetual varieties, but the varieties
are arranged by the LORD so as to have reference to families, in which are brothers, sisters, sons-in-
law, daughters-in-law, grandsons, grand-daughters, and so forth; nevertheless in general all are 
arranged into such a form, that together they make one; like the varieties in the human body, where 
no member is absolutely like another, nor one part in any member; still however all those various 
parts are arranged into such a form, that they act as one, and each concurs nearly or remotely to the 
action of the other. AC 5598.

Verse 14. And the Word was made flesh. That the LORD in the world fulfilled all things of the Word, 
and that by so doing he was made divine truth, or the Word even in ultimates, is understood by 
these words in John, And the Word was made flesh, &c. where, to be made flesh denotes to be made
the Word in ultimates. What the quality of the LORD was as to the Word in ultimates, he showed to 
his disciples when he was transfigured, Matt 17:2, and following verses; and it is there said, that 
Moses and Elias were seen in glory; for by Moses is meant the Word, which was written by him, 
and in general the historical Word, and by Elias the prophetical Word. The LORD, as the Word in 
ultimates, was also represented before John in the Apocalypse, Rev 1:13-16, where all things of the 
description of him signify the ultimates of divine truth or of the Word. The LORD indeed had before 
been the Word, or divine truth, but in first principles, for it is said, In the beginning was the Word, 
and the Word was with God, and GOD WAS THE WORD; but when the Word was made flesh, then the 
LORD was made the Word also in ultimates; it is from this circumstance that he is called the First 
and the Last, Rev 1:8, 11, 17. TCR 261.

It is said that the Word was made flesh, that is, a man, to the intent that the Divine [principle] itself 
under a human form might actually teach truth divine. That the LORD is the Divine [Being or 
principle] itself under a human form, see AC 9315. AC 9398.

That by flesh in a supreme sense is signified the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, is evident 
from this passage in John, The Word was made flesh, &c. from this flesh all flesh is vivified, that is,
from the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD every man is vivified, by the appropriation of his 
love, which appropriation is signified by eating the flesh of the Son of Man, John 6:51-58; and by 
eating bread in the holy supper, for bread is the body or flesh, Matt 26:26, 27. AC 3813.

The LORD came into the world, and assumed the Human [principle] that he might put himself into 
the ability of subduing the hells, and of reducing all things to order both in the heavens and on the 
earths. This Human [principle] he super-induced over his former Human [principle.] The Human 
[principle] which he super-induced in the world, was as the Human [principle] of man in the world, 
yet each was divine, and hence infinitely transcending the finite human [principles] of angels and 
men. And whereas he fully glorified the natural human [principle] even to its ultimates, therefore he
rose again with his whole body, otherwise than any man. By the assumption of this Human 
[principle] he put on the Divine Omnipotence, not only of subduing the hells, and reducing the 
heavens to order, but also of keeping the hells for ever subdued, and of saving men. His power is 

27

meant by his sitting at the "right hand of the power and virtue of GOD." For as much as the LORD, 
by the assumption of the natural Human [principle] made himself divine truth in ultimates, 
therefore he is called the Word, and it is said that the Word was made flesh, and divine truth in 
ultimates is the Word as to the sense of the letter; this he made himself by fulfilling all things of the 
Word concerning himself in Moses and the prophets. For every man is his own good and his own 
truth, man being a man from no other source; but the LORD, by the assumption of the natural 
Human [principle] is divine good itself and divine truth, or, what is the same thing, is divine love 
itself and divine wisdom, as well in first principles as in last: hence it is that in the angelic heavens 
he appears as a sun, since his coming into the world, in a stronger radiation and in greater 
splendour, than before his coming. Angelic Wisdom concerning the Divine Love, &c. DLW 221.

Verse 14. And we beheld his glory, &c. That glory is predicated of the divine truth which is from 
the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, and that it is attributed to the LORD as a king, is manifest
from these words in John, "The Word was made flesh, and dwelt amongst us, and we saw his glory,
the glory as of the Only-begotten of the FATHER, full of grace and truth; in which passage the Word 
denotes divine truth, which, since it proceeds from the LORD, is the LORD himself; hence glory is 
predicated of divine truth. AC 5922.

That glory and glorification, when predicated of the LORD, denotes the unification of his Human 
[principle] with the Divine itself which was in him, thus with JEHOVAH his FATHER, by which 
unification he made his Human [principle] also divine good, appears from the passages in the 
Word, where glory and glorification are named, in relation to JEHOVAH or the LORD; as in Isaiah, 
"The glory of Jehovah shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see together, because the mouth of the 
LORD has spoken," Is 40:5; again, "JEHOVAH I have called you in justice, to open the blind eyes, to 
bring out of prison him that is bound, I am JEHOVAH, this is my name, and my glory I will not give 
to another" Is 42:6, 7, 8; and again, "Upon you shall JEHOVAH arise, and his glory shall be seen 
upon you; the nations shall walk to your light," Is 60:2, 3; in these passages the LORD is treated of, 
and by the glory of Jehovah is meant the LORD as to divine truth, for divine truth proceeding from 
the LORD is the glory of JEHOVAH, see AC 9429. That the glory of Jehovah is the LORD as to divine 
truth proceeding from his divine good, which is JEHOVAH or the FATHER, the LORD himself teaches 
in John, "The Word was made flesh, and we saw his glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the 
Father." AC 10053. See also AR 897.

Verse 14. Full of grace and truth. Grace here denotes the delight of truth; the reason is, because 
there are two things which proceed from the LORD, both in their origin united; but with those who 
receive, a distinction is made, for there are some who receive divine truth more than divine good, 
and there are some who receive divine good more than divine truth; they who receive divine truth 
more than divine good, are in the LORD'S spiritual kingdom, and are hence called spiritual, but they 
who receive divine good more than divine truth, are in the LORD'S celestial kingdom, and are hence 
called celestial. To those who are in the spiritual kingdom, it is given by the LORD, to be in the 
affection of truth for the sake of truth, and this divine [principle] is what is called grace; hence it is,
that so far as any one is in that affection, so far he is in the divine grace of the LORD; nor is there 
any other divine grace given with man, spirit and angel, than to be affected with truth because it is 
truth, inasmuch as in that affection they have heaven and blessedness. Whether we speak of the 
affection of truth, or the delight of truth, it is the same thing; for affection without delight is not 
given. This is what is specifically meant in the Word by grace, as in John, "And the Word was made
flesh, and dwelt amongst us, and we saw his glory, the glory as of the Only-begotten of the FATHER,
full of grace and truth: of his fullness have we all received, grace for grace, because the law was 
given by Moses, grace and truth came by JESUS CHRIST," John 1:14, 16, 17; inasmuch as grace 

28

denotes the affection and delight of truth, therefore it is said, grace and truth; and in Luke, "After 
that the LORD explained the prophecy of Esaias in the synagogue concerning himself, thus the 
divine truth, all wondered at the words of grace that came forth from his mouth" Luke 4:22; the 
divine truths, which the LORD spoke, are called words of grace going forth from his mouth, because 
accepted, grateful, and delightful. In general, divine grace is all that which is given by the LORD, 
and whereas all that has reference to faith and love, and faith is the affection of truth from good, 
therefore it is specifically meant by divine grace, for to be gifted with faith and love, or with the 
affection of truth from good, is to be gifted with heaven, thus with eternal blessedness. AE 22.

Mercy and grace are distinguished in the Word, and indeed according to the difference of those who
receive: mercy is applied to those who are celestial, but grace to those who are spiritual; for the 
celestial acknowledge nothing else hut mercy, and the spiritual scarcely any thing else than grace; 
the celestial do not know what grace is, the spiritual scarcely know what mercy is, which they make
one and the same with grace; this is a consequence of the humiliation of each, which so differs; 
they who are in humiliation of heart implore the LORD'S mercy, but they who are in humiliation of 
thought ask for grace, and if they implore mercy, it is in a state of temptation, or with the mouth 
only, not with the heart. AC 598.

Inasmuch as there are two principles to which all things of the church have reference, namely love 
and faith; and whereas mercy is of love, and grace and also truth is of faith, therefore in the Word 
mention is made of mercy and grace when the LORD is implored, and of mercy and truth when the 
LORD is described, as in the following passages, "Your mercy is before mine eyes, and I walk in 
your truth" Psalm 26:3; again, "Your mercy, O JEHOVAH, is in the heavens, and your truth even to 
aethers," Psalm 36:6; again, "GOD shall send from the heavens his mercy and his truth: your mercy 
is great even to the heavens, and your truth even to the aethers," Psalm 57:11; again, "Mercy and 
truth shall meet together, justice and peace shall kiss each other," Psalm 85:11; and again, "The 
mercy of Jehovah I will sing for ever, to generation and generation, your truth with my mouth; 
since I have said, mercy shall be built for ever, in the heavens themselves you shall confirm your 
truth: justice and judgement are the support of your throne, mercy and truth shall stand before your 
face," Psalm 89:2, 3, 5; in which passages mercy denotes love, and truth denotes faith. AC 10577.

Verse 15. John bare witness of him, and cried, &c. Inasmuch as crying or shouting is an act, which 
corresponds to living confession or acknowledgement from a principle of faith, therefore also 
amongst the ancients the ritual of crying or shouting was in use, when such a thing was signified; 
and on this account, in the Word throughout, mention is made of crying or shouting, when the 
subject treated of is concerning confession and acknowledgement from a principle of faith, as it is 
said of John the Baptist, "That he witnessed concerning JESUS, and cried, saying, This was he of 
whom I spoke, who coming after me, was before me, because he was prior to me; I am the voice of 
one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the LORD," John 1:15, 23. AC 5323.

That the LORD was from eternity, is manifestly taught in these words, "This was he, who coming 
after me, was before me, because he was prior to me," John 1:15. AC 3704.

Verse 18. No one has seen God at any time; the Only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the 
Father, he has brought him forth to view. It is impossible for any thing of doctrine to proceed from 
the Divine itself, except by the Divine Human, that is, by the Word, which in the supreme sense is 
divine truth from the Divine Human of the LORD; what proceeds immediately from the Divine itself
cannot be apprehended even by the angels of the inmost heaven; the reason is, because it is infinite,
and thus transcends all comprehension, even such as is angelic; but what proceeds from the Divine 

29

Human of the LORD, this they are capable of comprehending, since it treats of GOD as of a Divine 
Man, concerning whom some idea may be formed from the human; and the idea which is formed 
respecting the Human is accepted, whatever it may be, provided that it flows from the good of 
innocence, and is in the good of charity; this is what is meant by the LORD'S words in John, "No one
has seen GOD at any time; the Only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the FATHER, he has 
brought him forth to view," John 1:18; again, "You have neither heard the voice of the FATHER at 
any time, nor seen his shape," John 5:37; and in Matthew, "No one knows the FATHER but the Son, 
and he to whom the Son shall be willing to reveal," Matt 11:27. AC 5321.

The Infinite itself, which is above all the heavens, and above the inmost principles belonging to 
man, cannot be manifested except by the Divine Human [principle] which appertains to the LORD 
alone; the communication of the Infinite with finite beings cannot be given from any other source; 
which also is the reason why, when JEHOVAH appeared to the men of the most ancient church, and 
afterwards to the ancient church, also to Abraham and the prophets, he was manifested to them as a 
Man, and that this Man was the LORD, he himself openly teaches in John, "Your father Abraham 
exulted to see my day, and he saw and rejoiced: verily, verily, I say to you, before Abraham was, I 
am," John 8:56, 58. Hence it may be evident, that the infinite Esse, which is JEHOVAH, cannot in 
any wise be manifested to man, except by the Human essence, thus by the LORD; and thus that he 
has been manifested to no one but to the LORD alone: to the intent also that he might be present with
and conjoined to man, after that man had removed himself altogether from the Divine [Being] and 
had immersed himself in filthy lusts, and thereby in mere corporeal and terrestrial things, he 
actually assumed by nativity the human essence, that thus he might still adjoin the infinite divine 
[principle] to man so far removed from it, who must otherwise have perished in the death of the 
damned to eternity. AC 1990.

The divine good cannot be received by man, not even by an angel, but only by the Divine Human 
of the LORD, which is meant by these words in John, "No one has seen GOD at any time; the Only-
begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the FATHER, he has brought him forth to view." But divine 
truth can be received, in which truth divine good can dwell, with a difference according to 
reception. AC 4180.

The conjunction of man with the LORD is not with his supreme Divine [principle] itself, but with his
Divine Human [principle] for man can have no idea at all concerning the supreme Divine 
[principle] of the LORD, inasmuch as it so transcends his idea, that it altogether perishes and 
becomes no idea; but concerning his Divine Human [principle] he can have an idea; for every one 
is conjoined by thought and affection, in cases where he can have an idea, but not in cases where he
can have no idea; when the Human [principle] of the LORD is thought of, if there be sanctity in the 
idea, the holy principle is also at the same time thought of, which from the LORD fills heaven, thus 
heaven is likewise thought of, for heaven in its complex resembles one man, and this from the 
LORD; hence it is that conjunction cannot be given with the supreme Divine [principle] of the LORD,
but with his Divine Human, and by the Divine Human with his supreme Divine; this is the reason 
why it is said in John, That no one has seen God at any time, except the Only-begotten Son, and that
no approach is given to the FATHER but by him; also that he is the Mediator. This may be manifestly
known from this consideration, that all they within the church, who say that they believe in a 
Supreme Being, and yet despise the LORD, are they who believe nothing at all, not even that there is
a heaven, nor that there is a hell, and who worship nature. AC 4211; see also AC 6887, 10067, 
10267.

30

The LORD is said to be rejected, when he is not approached and worshiped, and likewise when he is 
approached and worshiped only as to his Human [principle] and not at the same time as to the 
Divine; wherefore he is rejected at this day within the church, by those who do not approach and 
worship him, but pray to the FATHER to be merciful for the sake of the Son, when yet it is 
impossible for any man or angel to come to the FATHER, and worship him immediately, for he is the 
invisible Divine [Being] with whom no one can be conjoined by faith and love; for what is invisible
does not fall into the idea of thought, and therefore neither into the affection of the will, and what 
does not fall into the idea of thought is no object of faith, for the objects of faith must be thought of,
and likewise what does not enter into the affection of the will, does not enter the love, for the 
objects of love must affect the will of man, since in this principle resides all the love which man 
has. But the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD falls into the idea of thought, and thus into faith,
and thence into the affection of the will or love; hence it is evident that there is no conjunction with 
the FATHER, except from the LORD and in the LORD, as the LORD himself clearly teaches in the 
evangelists; thus in John, "No one has seen GOD at any time; the Only-begotten Son, who is in the 
bosom of the FATHER, he has brought him forth to view," John 1:18; again, "I am the way, the truth, 
and the life, no one comes to the FATHER but by me," John 14:6; again, "I am the vine, you are the 
branches, without me you cannot do any thing," John 15:5. AE 114.

GOD the FATHER cannot in any wise be approached, neither can he come to any man, because he is 
infinite, and in his Esse, which is JEHOVAH, from which if he was to come to man, he would 
consume him, as fire does wood, and reduce him to ashes; this is evident from the consideration of 
his saying to Moses, who was desirous to see him, that no one can see him and live, Exod 33:20; 
and the LORD says, that no one has seen God at any time, except the Son, who is in the bosom of the
Father, John 1:18, Matt 11:27; also that no one has heard the voice of the Father, nor seen his 
shape, John 5:37; it is written indeed that Moses saw JEHOVAH face to face, and spoke with him 
mouth to mouth, but this was done by an angel, in like manner in the case of Abraham and Gideon. 
Now whereas GOD the FATHER in himself is of such a quality, it pleased him to assume the Human 
[principle], and in this to admit men, and thereby to hear them, and speak with them; and this 
Human [principle] is what is called the Son of GOD, and this it is which mediates, intercedes, 
propitiates, and expiates. MEDIATION signifies that it is the intermediate, by which man can come to 
GOD the FATHER, and GOD the FATHER to man, and thus teach and lead him that he may be saved, 
wherefore the Son of GOD, by whom is meant the Human [principle] of GOD the FATHER, is called 
SAVIOUR, and in the world JESUS, that is, salvation. INTERCESSION signifies perpetual mediation, for 
love itself, of which is mercy, clemency and grace, perpetually intercedes, that is, mediates, for 
those who do his precepts, whom he loves. EXPIATION, or ATONEMENT, signifies the removal of 
sins, into which man would rush, if he approached the naked JEHOVAH. PROPITIATION signifies the 
operation of clemency and grace, lest man by sins should bring himself into damnation; in like 
manner protection, lest he should profane holiness; and this was signified by the propitiatory over 
the ark in the tabernacle. TCR 135.

The LORD our SAVIOUR is JEHOVAH the FATHER himself in a human form, for JEHOVAH descended, 
and was made man, that he might come to man, and man to him, and thus conjunction might be 
effected, and by conjunction man might have salvation and eternal life; for when GOD was made 
man, and thus also man was made GOD, then being accommodated to man, he could come to and be
conjoined to him as God-Man and Man-God. There are three things which follow in order, 
ACCOMMODATION, APPLICATION, and CONJUNCTION: accommodation must take place before 
application is given, and accommodation and application together must take place before 
conjunction is given; accommodation was on the part of GOD, in that he was made a man; 
application on the part of GOD is perpetual, so far as man applies himself on his part; and as this is 

31

effected, conjunction is also effected. These three things follow and proceed in their order, in all 
and singular the things which become one and co-exist. TCR 370.

Verses 19 to 24. And this is the record of John, &c. Concerning John the Baptist, see verse 6, 
Exposition.

Verse 23. I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, &c. Voice in this passage denotes what is 
announced from the Word concerning the LORD'S advent, thus also it denotes the divine truth which 
the Word announces; wilderness denotes the state of the church at that time, which was as in a 
wilderness, because the Word was no longer understood. AC 9926.

By the above words is signified that the church at that time was altogether vastated, so that there 
was no longer any good and any truth, which evidently appears from this consideration, that at that 
time no one knew that man has any internal principle, nor that there is any internal principle in the 
Word; thus it was also unknown that the MESSIAH or CHRIST was to come to save them to eternity. 
Hence also it is evident what is signified by John being in the wildernesses, even to the days of his 
appearing to Israel, Luke 1:80; and by his preaching in the wilderness of Judea, Matt 3:1, and 
following verses; and by his baptizing in the wilderness, Mark 1:4; for thereby he also represented 
the state of the church. AC 2708.

Verse 27. Whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose. In the Word, the sole of the foot and the 
heel signify the ultimate natural principle, and as the shoe is what clothes the sole of the foot and 
the heel, therefore the shoe signifies the natural principle still more remote, thus the corporeal 
principle itself; hence it became a customary form of speech, by which was signified the least and 
the vilest of all things, for the ultimate natural corporeal principle is the vilest of all principles 
belonging to man; and this was meant by John the Baptist, when he said, whose shoe's latchet I am 
not worthy to unloose. AC 1748.

Verse 28. Beyond Jordan. The ground and reason why Jordan denotes initiation into the 
knowledges of good and truth is, because it was a boundary of the land of Canaan; that all the 
boundaries of that land signified those things which are first and last of the LORD'S kingdom, also 
which are first and last of the church, thus which are first and last of things celestial and spiritual, 
which constitute the LORD'S kingdom and his church, see AC 1585, 1866; hence Jordan, as being a 
boundary, signified initiation into the knowledges of good and truth, for these are the first things, 
and at length, when man is made a church or the LORD'S kingdom, they become the last. That 
Jordan has this signification, may appear also from other passages in the Word, as in David, "My 
GOD, over me my soul bows itself; therefore will I remember you from the land of Jordan, and of 
the Hermonites from the mount of Littleness," Psalm 42:6; to remember from the land of Jordan 
denotes from what is last, thus from what is low; again, "Judah was made into his sanctuary, Israel 
his dominions; the sea saw and fled, Jordan turned itself away backward," Psalm 114:2, 3, 5, where
Judah denotes the good of celestial love, and Israel the good of spiritual love, see AC 3654; sea 
denotes the knowledges of truth, see AC 28; Jordan denotes the knowledges of good, which are 
said to turn themselves away backward, when the good of love obtains the dominion; for in such 
case knowledges are looked at from that good, but not good from them, according to what has been 
frequently shown above. So in the book of Judges, "Gilead dwelling in the passage of Jordan: and 
Dan why shall he fear ships?" 5:17; where Gilead denotes sensual good or what is pleasant, by 
which man is first initiated when he is regenerated, see AC 4117, 4124; to dwell in the passage of 
Jordan, denotes in those things which are initiaments, thus which are the first and last of the LORD'S
church and kingdom. These things were also represented by Jordan, when the sons of Israel entered

32

into the land of Canaan, Joshua 3:14 to the end 4:1 to the end; for by the land of Canaan was 
represented the LORD'S kingdom, see AC 1413, 1437, 1607; and by Jordan being divided, and their 
passing over on dry [ground] was signified the removal of evils and falses, and the admission of 
those who were principled in goods and truths. The like was signified by the waters of Jordan 
being divided by Elias, when he was taken up into heaven, 2 Kings 2:8; and by Elisha, when he 
entered upon the prophetic office in the place of Elias, verse 14 of the same chapter. Naaman's 
being healed of his leprosy by washing himself seven times in Jordan, according to the command of
Elisha, 2 Kings 5:1-14, represented baptism, for baptism signifies initiation into the church, and 
into those things which appertain to the church; thus it signifies regeneration and the things 
belonging to regeneration; not that by baptism any one is regenerated, but that it is a sign thereof, 
which should be remembered. And inasmuch as the things belonging to the church are signified by 
baptism, and the like by Jordan, as was said above, therefore the people were baptized in Jordan by
John, Matt 3:6; Mark 1:5; and also the LORD was willing to be there himself baptized by John, Matt
3:13-17; Mark 1:5. Whereas Jordan signifies those things which are first and last of the LORD'S 
kingdom and church, such are the knowledges of good and truth, for by these man is introduced, 
therefore also Jordan is mentioned as a boundary of the new earth, or holy land, in Ezekiel 47:18; 
that the new earth or holy land is the LORD'S kingdom, and also the new church, which is the LORD'S
kingdom in the earths, maybe seen, AC 1733, 1850. AC 4255.

Verse 29. Behold the Lamb of God. By a Lamb is signified innocence, and inasmuch as the LORD is 
the essential innocence, which is in his kingdom, for from him is the all of innocence, hence he is 
called a Lamb, as in the above passage, and also in the Apocalypse, "They shall fight with the 
Lamb, but the Lamb shall overcome them, because he is LORD of lords and King of kings," Rev 
17:14; and besides in other passages in the Apocalypse, as Rev 5:6; 6:1, 16; 7:9, 14, 17; 12:11; 
13:8; 14:1, 4; 19:7, 9; 21:22, 23, 26; 22:1, 3. That the paschal Lamb denotes the LORD in the 
supreme sense, is a known thing, for the passover signified the glorification of the LORD, that is, the
putting on of the divine [principle] as to the Human, and in the representative sense signifies the 
regeneration of man; and the paschal Lamb that which is the essential of regeneration, namely 
innocence; for no one can be regenerated but by charity in which is innocence. AC 3994.

Inasmuch as the LORD when in the world, as to his Human [principle] was innocence itself; and 
since the all of innocence proceeds from him, therefore he is called a Lamb, and the Lamb of God; 
as in Isaiah, "Send the Lamb of the ruler of the earth from the rock towards the wilderness to the 
mountain of the daughter of Zion," Is 16:1; again, "He has was afflicted, and was afflicted, yet he 
opened not his mouth, he is led as a Lamb to the slaughter," Is 53:7; and in the Apocalypse, "The 
Lamb who is in the midst of the throne shall feed them," Rev 7:17. AC 10132.

Verse 29. Which takes away the sin of the world. By taking away sins the like is meant as by 
redeeming man, and saving him; for the LORD came into the world that man might be saved, since 
without his coming no human being could be reformed and regenerated, thus saved; but this can be 
effected after that the LORD has taken away all power from the devil, that is, from hell, and glorified
his human [principle], that is, united it to the Divine [principle] of his FATHER. If these things had 
not been done, no man could have received any Divine truth abiding with him, and still less any 
Divine good, for the devil, who before had superior power, would have plucked those things out of 
his heart. From these considerations it is evident that the LORD, by the passion of the cross, did not 
take away sins, but that he takes them away, that is, removes them with those who believe in him, 
by living according to his precepts; as the LORD also teaches in Matthew, "Think not that I am come
to dissolve the law and the prophets. Whosoever shall break the least of these precepts, and shall 
teach men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of the heavens; but he who does and teaches the 

33

same, shall be called great in the kingdom of the heavens," Matt 5:17, 19. Every one may see from 
reason alone, if he be only in any illustration, that sins cannot be taken away from man, unless by 
actual repentance, which requires that man should see his sins, and implore the LORD'S help, and 
desist from them: to see, to believe, and teach otherwise, has no foundation in the Word, nor in 
sound reason, but is grounded in lust and a depraved will, which are the proprium of man, 
producing infatuation in the understanding. Doc. of the Lord, 17.

Verse 32. I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, &c. By a dove are signified the 
truths and goods of faith with the person about to be regenerated, as appears from the signification 
of a dove in the Word, especially from the dove which came upon JESUS when he was baptized, see 
Matt 3:16, 17; Mark 1:10, 11; Luke 3:21, 22; John 1:32; where a dove signified nothing else than 
the holy principle of faith, baptism itself signifying regeneration; hence with the new church, which
was to arise, it signified the good and truth of faith, which was to be received by regeneration from 
the LORD. Similar things were represented and involved by the young doves or turtles, which were 
offered in the Jewish church for sacrifice and for burnt-offering. AC 870.

It is written, that when Jesus was baptized, the heavens were opened, and John saw the Holy Spirit 
descending as a dove. This came to pass, because baptism signifies regeneration and purification, in
like manner a dove; who cannot perceive, that the dove was not the Holy Spirit, nor that the Holy 
Spirit was in the dove? In heaven there frequently appear doves, and as often as they appear, the 
angels know that they are correspondences of the affections and consequent thoughts respecting 
regeneration and purification, with some standing in the neighbourhood; wherefore as soon as they 
approach them, and discourse with them on some other subject than what occupied their thoughts 
during that appearance, the doves instantly vanish: in this respect the case is similar to many other 
things seen by the prophets, as where John saw a Lamb on Mount Zion, Rev 14:1; who does not 
know, that the LORD was not that Lamb, neither in the Lamb, but that the Lamb was a 
representation of his innocence; hence is discoverable the error of those, who from the dove which 
was seen over the LORD when he was baptized, and from the voice heard out of heaven on the 
occasion, This is my beloved Son, deduce the three persons of the Trinity. TCR 144. See also TCR 
164 of the same work.

Verse 33. The same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Spirit. John said that he baptizeth with 
water, but that the Lord baptizeth with the Holy Spirit and with fire, Luke 3:16; John 1:33; by which
is meant, that John only inaugurated them into knowledges from the Word concerning the LORD, 
and thereby prepared them to receive him, but that the LORD himself regenerates man by the divine 
truth and divine good proceeding from himself; for John represented the same thing as Elias, 
namely the Word; the waters with which John baptized signified introductory truths, which are 
knowledges concerning the LORD derived from the Word; the Holy Spirit signifies divine truth 
proceeding from the LORD, and fire signifies divine good proceeding from him, and baptism 
signifies regeneration by divine truths out of the Word from the LORD. The reason why washings 
were instituted in the ancient churches, and afterwards baptism in their place, which yet were only 
representative and significative ceremonies, was, that heaven might be conjoined with the human 
race, and specifically with the man of the church; for heaven is then conjoined to man, when man is
in ultimates, that is, in such things as are in the world as to his natural man, and in such things as 
are in heaven as to his spiritual man; otherwise conjunction cannot be given; it was for this reason 
that baptism was instituted, and likewise the holy supper; but he who believes that baptism 
contributes any thing to the salvation of man, unless he be at the same time in the truths of the 
church, and in a life according to them, is much deceived; for baptism is an external thing, which, 
without an internal principle, contributes nothing to salvation, but does contribute where what is 

34

external is conjoined to what is internal; the internal of baptism is, that by truths from the Word, 
and by a life according to them, falses and evils may be removed by the LORD, and thus man may 
be regenerated. AE 475.

From what has been said above, it is evident what was designed by baptism in Jordan by John; and 
what by these words of John concerning the LORD, that he baptizeth with the Holy Spirit and with 
fire, Luke 3:16; John 1:33; and concerning himself, that he baptizeth with water, John 1:26, namely 
that the LORD washes or purifies man by divine truth and divine good, and that John by his baptism 
represented those principles; for the Holy Spirit is divine truth, fire is divine good, and water is the 
representative of them; for water signifies the truth of the Word, which becomes good by a life 
according to it. AR 378. See also AC 9229.

Verse 36. Behold the Lamb of God. It is believed in the world that the LORD is called a lamb from 
this circumstance, that the continual burnt-offering, or what was offered every day, evening and 
morning, was from lambs, and especially on the days of the Passover, when a lamb was also eaten, 
and that the LORD suffered himself to be crucified. But this reason of his being so called, is for 
those in the world, who do not think beyond the sense of the letter of the Word; nevertheless in 
heaven no such thing is perceived, when a lamb is predicated of the LORD, but when the lamb is 
named or read in the Word, then the angels being all of them in the infernal or spiritual sense of the 
Word, perceive the good of innocence, and when the LORD is thus called, they perceive his Divine 
Human [principle] and at the same time the good of innocence which is from him. I know that this 
will with difficulty be believed, but nevertheless it is the truth. That lamb in the Word signifies the 
good of innocence, and when predicated of the LORD, signifies his Divine Human [principle] may 
appear from the following passages: as in Isaiah, "Behold the LORD JEHOVIH, comes in might, as a 
shepherd he shall feed his flock, he shall gather the lambs into his arm, he shall carry them in his 
bosom, he shall gently lead those that suck," Is 40:11; treating concerning the advent of the LORD; 
by the flock which he shall feed as a shepherd, are signified those who are in the good of charity; 
and by the lambs whom he shall gather into his arm, are signified those who are in love to him, 
which love viewed in itself is innocence, and therefore all who are principled in it are in the heaven 
of innocence, which is the third heaven; and inasmuch as that love is signified by lambs, it is 
therefore also said, he gently leads them that suck; by sucklings and infants in the Word are 
understood those who are in innocence, as may be seen in the work concerning HEAVEN AND HELL, 
HH 277, 280. AE 314.

Verse 41. We have found the Messias, &c. It is said that the kingdoms of the world should become 
the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, Rev 11:15; and by the Lord is there meant the same as 
by JEHOVAH in the Old Testament, and by FATHER in the New; namely, the LORD as to the Divine 
itself, and likewise as to divine good; and by Christ is meant the same as by GOD in the Old 
Testament, and by the Son of GOD in the New, namely the LORD as to the Divine Human, and 
likewise as to divine truth; for by Christ the like is signified as by Anointed, Messiah, and King; 
and by Anointed, Messiah, and King, is meant the LORD as to divine truth, and likewise as to the 
Divine Human when he was in the world, for at that time the LORD, as to his Human, was divine 
truth; the like therefore is signified by the Anointed of JEHOVAH, for the Divine itself, which is 
called JEHOVAH and the FATHER, and in its essence was the divine good of the divine love, anointed 
the Divine Human, which is called the Son of GOD, and which in its essence, whilst it was in the 
world, was divine truth; for anointing signified that the Divine Human of the LORD proceeded from 
his Divine itself, consequently divine truth from his divine good: hence it is evident that the LORD 
alone, as to the Divine Human, was essentially the anointed of JEHOVAH, and that kings and priests 
were called the anointed of JEHOVAH representatively, for the oil, by which anointing was effected, 

35

signified the divine good of the divine love. Now whereas divine truth belonging to the LORD was 
what was anointed by divine good, it hence follows that by Christ, and in like manner by Messiah 
and Anointed, and likewise by King, is signified the divine truth proceeding from the divine good of
the divine love of the LORD. That CHRIST is the Messiah or Anointed, is manifest from John, 
"Andrew found his brother Simon, and said to him, We have found the Messiah, which is, being 
interpreted, the Christ," John 1:42; and again, "The woman of Samaria said, I know that Messiah 
comes, who is called Christ," John 4:25; from which passages it is evident, that the LORD was 
called Christ from this circumstance, that he was the Messiah, whose coming was predicted in the 
Word of the Old Testament, for Anointed is called Christ in the Greek tongue, and Messiah in the 
Hebrew, and Anointed denotes King: hence it is that the LORD was called the King of Israel and 
King of the Jews, which he also confessed before Pilate, whence it was inscribed on the cross, King
of the Jews. AE 684. See also AC 3007, 3008, 3009, 3010, 9954.

Verse 42. You are Simon, the son of Jona; you shall be called Cephas, &c. Cephas signifies a rock 
in the Syriac language, wherefore also Peter in that text is every where called Cephas; and likewise 
Cephas denotes a rock in the Hebrew tongue, as is evident in Jeremiah 4:29; and in Job 30:6; where
rocks are mentioned in the plural, but Peter [Petrus] is not named rock [petrd] in the Greek and 
Latin tongue, because the name of a person was given him. The reason why the LORD said, Simon, 
son of Jona, and then that he should be called rock [petra] is, because Simon, son of Jona, signifies 
truth derived from good or faith derived from charity; and since truth derived from good, or faith 
from charity, is not given except with those who are in divine truth from the LORD, therefore he is 
called a rock [petra] not himself as to person, but the divine truth belonging to him from the LORD; 
that a dove which is signified by Jona, signifies spiritual good, may be seen in the ARCANA 
COELESTIA, AC 970, 1826, 1827; hence by Simon, son of Jona, is signified the truth of good, or 
truth from good. AE 411.

Verse 47. Behold truly an Israelite in whom is no guile, By an Israelite is signified one who is in 
the good of charity, and who from that good is in truths, thus who is in truths from good; and by 
having no guile is signified one who holds in aversion the thinking and persuading what is false 
from purpose, and thus from intention of the will to deceive and seduce. See further what is written 
in the Arcana Coelestia concerning guile or deceit, namely that guile destroys the all of spiritual and
interior life belonging to man, AC 9013. That guile, fraud, simulation, were accounted enormous by
the ancients, AC 3573. That the deceitful when viewed by the angels appear as serpents and vipers, 
AC 1433. That they are also meant by serpents and vipers in the Word, AC 9013. That poison in the
Word signifies deceit, AC 9013. Concerning the punishments of those who have ensnared others 
and deceived them by deceit, AC 831, 957, 958, 959, 960, 1273. Concerning their hells, AC 830, 
831, 947, 4951. AE 866.

Verse 51. Hereafter you shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending 
upon the Son of Man. By the angels of God ascending and descending is signified infinite and 
eternal communication, and thence conjunction, and that from the lowest principles there is, as it 
were, ascent, and afterwards, when the order is inverted, descent, appears from the signification of 
angels, as denoting somewhat divine of the LORD, which is understood by them when they are 
named in the Word, in this case as denoting divine truth, which appears from this consideration, 
that they are called angels of God, for the term God is applied when in the internal sense truth is 
treated of, but the term JEHOVAH when good is treated of: that by ascending and descending is 
signified in the supreme sense infinite and eternal communication, and thence conjunction, may 
appear without further explication. But how the case is with ascent and descent, may appear from 
what was said and shown above, AC 3539, 3548, 3556. But whereas this order, which is that of the 

36

regeneration of man, and is here described in the internal sense, is altogether unknown in the 
church, therefore it is allowed further to illustrate it as to its quality. It is a known thing that man is 
born into the nature of his parents, and his grandfathers, and likewise great-grandfathers from 
remote ages, thus into the hereditary evil of them all successively accumulated, insomuch that of 
himself he is nothing but evil; the consequence is, that both as to understanding and as to will he is 
altogether destroyed, and of himself wills nothing of good, and hence understands nothing of truth, 
consequently that what he calls good, yea, believes to be good, is evil, and that what he calls truth, 
yea, believes to be truth, is false; as for example, to love himself above others, to will better for 
himself than for others, to desire another's property, and live to himself alone, and not to others 
except for the sake of himself; these things he calls good, and likewise true, because of himself he 
desires them; and further, if any one injures him, or attempts to injure him, as to those goods and 
truths, as he calls them, he hates him, and also seeks revenge, and desires his destruction, and 
likewise attempts it, and in so doing perceives delight, and this in proportion as he actually 
confirms himself in those things, that is, the more frequently he brings them into act. Such a person,
when he comes into the other life, is instigated by similar desire, inasmuch as the nature, which by 
actual life he has contracted in the world, remains, and that principle of delight itself is manifestly 
perceived; wherefore he cannot dwell in any heavenly society, in which every one is inclined to 
favour others more than himself, but in some infernal society, which is principled in similar delight:
this nature is what ought to be extirpated during man's life in the world, which can only be effected 
by regeneration from the LORD, that is, by receiving altogether another will and another 
understanding thence derived, that is, by becoming new as to both those faculties. But for this 
purpose, he ought first of all to be re-born as an infant, and to learn what is evil and false, and also 
what is good and true; for without science or knowledge he cannot be imbued with any good, since 
of himself he acknowledges nothing else to be good but evil, and nothing to be true but what is 
false; with this view such knowledges are insinuated into him, as are not altogether contrary to 
those which he before had, as that all love begins from himself, that he must first consult his own 
good, and afterwards that of others, that he must do good to such as appear poor and miserable in 
an external form, whatever be their quality within, in like manner to widows and orphans, because 
they are so named, and lastly to enemies in general, whoever they are, and that thus he may merit 
heaven; these and similar knowledges are of the infancy of his new life, and are such as partake in 
some respects of the former life, or of the nature of the former life, deriving also something from 
the new life, into which he is thus introduced, and hence they are such as to admit into them the 
things which conduce to form the new will and the new understanding. 

These are the lowest goods and truths, from which they who are regenerating commence, and as 
these goods and truths admit into them interior goods and truths, or those nearer to divine truths, by
them also the falses may likewise be extirpated, which they had before believed to be true. But they
who are regenerating do not learn such things merely as sciences, but as life, for they do those 
truths; but the principle from which they do them is that of the new will, which the LORD insinuates 
whilst they are entirely ignorant of it, and in proportion as they receive from that new will, in the 
same proportion also they receive from those knowledges, and bring them into act, and believe; but 
in proportion as they do not receive from the new will, in the same proportion they can indeed learn
such things, but not bring them into act, because they study only science, and not lite. This state is 
the state of infancy and childhood as to new life, which is about to succeed in the place of the 
former life; but the state of the adolescence and youth of that life is, that they have not respect to 
any person, such as he appears in the external form, but such as he is as to good, first in civil life, 
next in moral life, and at length in spiritual life, and good is what man, in such case, begins to set in
the first place, and to love, and from good the person; and at length, when he is still more perfected,
he studies to do good to those who are in good, and this according to the quality of good belonging 

37

to them, and at length he perceives delight in doing them good, because delight in good, and also 
pleasantness in those things which confirm, acknowledges the things which confirm to be truths, 
and they are likewise the truths of his new understanding, which flow from the goods which are of 
his new will. In a similar degree in which he perceives delight in that good and pleasantness in 
those truths, he also feels what is undelightful in the evils of his former life, and what is unpleasant 
in its falses; hence now the things which are of the former will, and the things which are of the 
former understanding, are separated from those which are of the new understanding, and this not 
according to the affection of knowing those things, but according to the affection of doing them: 
consequently he then sees that the truths of his infancy were respectively inverted, and that the 
same are by degrees reduced into another order, namely, rendered subordinate to each other, so that 
those which at first were in the prior place, are now in the posterior place; thus that by those truths, 
which were of his infancy and childhood, the angels of God ascended as by a ladder from earth to 
heaven, but afterwards, by the truths which are of his adult age, the angels of God descend as by a 
ladder from heaven to earth. AC 3701.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 13. Who were born not of bloods, &c. What is here rendered bloods, in the plural number, is rendered 
blood, in the singular, in the common translation of the New Testament; hut it is to be noted, that in the 
original Greek it is expressed in the plural, and the reason why it is so expressed is thus given in the ARCANA
COELESTIA, "They are called bloods in the plural number, because all unjust and abominable things flow 
from hatred, as all good and holy things flow from love." AC 374.

Verse 16. And of his fullness have we all received, and grace for grace. The term fullness, in this passage, 
appears to have more respect to the divine love, and the term grace to the divine wisdom, thus both terms 
united seem intended to express the divine and heavenly marriage, which is so frequently marked in the 
letter of the HOLY WORD. Commentators are not agreed about the true meaning of the peculiar expression 
grace for grace, which may either signify, 1st, that grace is given according to man's use of it; or 2dly, that 
the grace operated in man is in correspondence with its original in the DIVINE BEING; or 3dly, (which is the 
most probable) that the grace imparted under the gospel dispensation is the antitype of what was given under
the Mosaic dispensation; and therefore it follows in the next verse, for the law was given by Moses, grace 
and truth was by JESUS CHRIST,

Verse 18. The only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he has brought him forth [to view.] What
is here rendered has brought him forth is expressed, in the common version of the New Testament, by has 
declared him; but the original term is exegesato, from the verb exegeomai, which properly signifies to 
expound, or make manifest.

38

John Chapter 2

Chapter 2

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. AND on the third day there was a 
marriage in Cana of Galilee, and 
the mother of JESUS was there.

2. And both JESUS was called and his 

disciples to the marriage.

3. And when the wine failed, the 

mother of JESUS says to him, They 
have no wine.

THAT in the fullness of time the church was 
established amongst the Gentiles, through the 
affection of good, and a desire thus enkindled to 
attain conjunction with the divine good in the LORD'S
DIVINE HUMANITY, and with all the holy truths 
thence derived, vs 1, 2.

That on this occasion it is perceived by the affection 
of good, that there is no longer any interior truth in 
the church, and application is accordingly made to 
the divine truth for the restoration of such truth, vs 3.

4.

JESUS says to her, What [is it] to me
and to you, woman? Mine hour is 
not yet come.

But this application is not immediately granted, 
because the church was not yet in a state to receive 
interior truth, vs 4.

5. His mother says to the servants, 

Whatsoever he shall say to you, do.

Therefore, in order to induce such a state, it is 
dictated by the affection of good to all the lower 
principles of the natural mind, to submit themselves 
to the control and government of the divine truth, in 
the LORD'S Divine Humanity, vs 5.

6. And there were set there six water-
pots of stone, after the manner of 
the purifying of the Jews, 
containing two or three firkins 
apiece.

And at the same time it is required of the divine 
truth, that those things of the WORD, which are 
representative of divine things, should be regarded as
containing in them all the divine and spiritual truths 
of heaven and the church, vs 6, 7.

7.

JESUS says to them, Fill the water-
pots with water. And they filled 
them up to the top.

8. And he says to them, Draw out 

now, and bear to the governor of 
the feast, and they bare [it.]

And that instruction should be given from the WORD,
according to this idea of its contents, to all those who
are principled in the knowledges of truth, vs 8.

39

9. But when the governor of the feast 
had tasted the water that was made 
wine, and knew not whence it was, 
but the servants which drew the 
water knew, the governor of the 
feast calls the bridegroom,

But when they, who were so principled, perceived 
internal truth in external, they perceived at the same 
time that every church commences from truths 
derived from good, but closes in truths not of good, 
on which occasion genuine truth is again opened by 
the LORD, vs 9, 10.

10. And says to him, Every man first 
sets forth good wine, and when 
they are drunken, then that which is
worse, but you have kept the good 
wine until now.

11. This beginning of miracles [signs] 
did JESUS in Cana of Galilee, and 
manifested his glory, and his 
disciples believed on him.

12. After this he went down to 

Capernaum, he, and his mother, 
and his brethren, and his disciples; 
and they remained there not many 
days.

13. And the passover of the Jews was 

near, and JESUS went up to 
Jerusalem;

14. And found in the temple those who 
sold oxen, and sheep, and doves, 
and the changers of money, sitting.

15. And having made a scourge of 

cords, he drove them all out of the 
temple, and the sheep, and the 
oxen; and poured out the money of 
the money-merchants, and 
overthrew the tables.

16. And to them who sold doves he 

said, Take these things hence; make
not my FATHER'S house a house of 
merchandize.

17. And his disciples remembered, that
it was written, The zeal of your 
house has eaten me up.

Which opening of genuine truth is of the divine 
operation, to the intent that mankind, being 
enlightened by the spiritual or internal sense of the 
HOLY WORD, may be led to acknowledge the LORD in
his DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 11.

That after this opening of genuine truth, the church is
brought into a state of consolation and refreshment, 
vs 12.

That the LORD initiated his Human [principle] into 
representative worship and the doctrine of the 
church, and at the same time purified that worship by
teaching, that all natural, spiritual, and celestial 
affections, together with the knowledges of what is 
good and true, were not to be confounded with 
divine things, but to be seen and kept distinct from 
the divine source from which they flowed, vs 13, 14, 
15, 16.

Thus teaching in agreement with the WORD, from the
ardency of his divine love, vs 17.

40

18. Then answered the Jews and said to
him, What sign show you, that you 
do these things?

That the glorification of the LORD'S Humanity is the 
grand confirming testimony of the truth of all that he 
said and did, and thus of his being the divine truth 
itself, which is GOD, vs 18, 19, 20, 21.

19. JESUS answered and said to them, 
Destroy this temple, and in three 
days I will raise it up.

20. Then said the Jews, Forty and six 
years was this temple in building, 
and will you raise it up in three 
days?

21. But he spoke of the temple of his 

body.

22. When therefore he was risen from 
the dead, his disciples remembered 
that he had said this to them; and 
they believed the Scripture, and the
word which JESUS had said.

23. But when he was in Jerusalem at 
the passover, in the feast, many 
believed in his name, seeing his 
miracles [signs] which he did.

24. But JESUS did not trust himself to 
them, because he knew all [men.]

25. And needed not that any should 
testify of man, for he knew what 
was in man.

Because this glorification is treated of in the Word 
throughout, and from it the Word derives its sanctity, 
and inspires man with a principle of heavenly faith, 
vs 22.

That a miraculous faith prevailed in the church, or a 
faith grounded in the evidence of miracles more than
in the affection of good and truth, which faith 
therefore is not receptive of good and truth from the 
LORD, who scrutinizes by his divine truth all the 
qualities and characters of man's faith, vs 23, 24, 25.

Exposition.

Verses 1 to 12. And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee, &c. It is to be noted that 
all the miracles worked by the LORD, as well as all the. miracles treated of in the Old Testament, 
which were worked by him, signified such things as relate to heaven and the church, that is, that 
they contained such things within, and that hence his miracles were divine, see the Arcana 
Coelestia, AC 7337, 8364, 9031. The case was the same with this miracle in Cana of Galilee, and 
by the marriage there is signified the church, as in other passages in the Word throughout; in Cana 
of Galilee denotes amongst the Gentiles; and by water is signified the truth of the external church, 
such as was the truth of the Jewish church, from the sense of the letter of the Word, and by wine is 
signified the truth of the internal church, such as is the truth of the Christian church; hence by the 
LORD making water wine is signified that he made the truths of the external church truths of the 
internal church, by opening the internal things which lay concealed in them; by six water-pots of 
stone set according to the cleansing of the Jews, are signified all those things in the Word, and 
thence in the Jewish church and its worship, which were representative and significative of divine 

41

things in the LORD and from the LORD, which contained internal things; wherefore also they were 
six of stone set for the cleansing of the Jews; the number six signifies all, and is predicated of 
truths; stone signifies truth, and the cleansing of the Jews signifies purification from sins, thus all 
things of the Jewish church, for the church regards purification from sins as all that belongs to it, 
since in proportion as any one is purified from sins, in the same proportion he is a church; by the 
ruler of the feast are meant those who are in the knowledges of truth: by his saying to the 
bridegroom, every man at first sets forth good wine, and when they have had enough, then that 
which is worse, you have reserved the good wine until now, is signified that every church 
commences from truths derived from good, but closes in truths not of good, and that even now in 
the end of the church, truth derived from good or genuine truth is given, namely from the LORD. AE
376.

As to what concerns miracles and signs, it is to be noted that they were performed amongst such, as
were in external worship, and were not willing to be acquainted with internal; they also who were 
in such worship, were to be driven by external means; hence it was, that miracles were performed 
amongst the Israelitish and Jewish people, for they were solely in external worship, and in no 
internal; and also external worship was what they ought to be in, when they were not willing to be 
in internal worship, to the intent that in externals they might represent holy things, and thereby 
communication might be given with heaven, as by somewhat of a church, for correspondences, 
representatives and significatives conjoin the natural world to the spiritual; hence now it was, that 
so many miracles were performed amongst that nation: but amongst those, who are in internal 
worship, that is in charity and faith, miracles are not performed, for they are hurtful to them, 
inasmuch as miracles compel to believe, and what is of compulsion does not remain, but is 
dissipated; the internal things of worship, which are faith and charity, are to be implanted in a free 
principle, for in such case they are appropriated, and the things which are so appropriated remain; 
but the things which are implanted in a state of compulsion, remain out of the internal man in the 
external; for into the internal man nothing enters except by intellectual ideas, which are reasons 
[rationes] for the ground which there receives, is the rational principle illustrated; hence it is, that 
no miracles are worked at this day: that they are also hurtful, may hence be manifest: for they 
compel [men] to believe, and fix ideas in the external man that it is so; if the internal man 
afterwards denies what miracles have confirmed, in such case an opposition and collision of the 
internal and external man takes place, and at length, when the ideas derived from miracles are 
dissipated, there is effected a conjunction of what is false and what is true, thus profanation; hence 
it is evident how hurtful miracles are at this day in the church, because the internals of worship are 
now discovered; these things are also signified by the LORD'S words to Thomas, "Because you have 
seen me, Thomas, you have believed, blessed are they who do not see, and believe," John 20:29; so 
also they are blessed who do not believe by miracles. But miracles are not hurtful to those who are 
in external worship without internal, for with such no opposition can exist between the internal and 
external man, thus no collision, consequently no profanation. That miracles do not contribute any 
thing to faith, may be sufficiently manifest from the miracles worked amongst the people of Israel 
in Egypt, and in the wilderness, in that they had no effect at all upon them; for that people, although
they so lately had seen so many miracles in Egypt, afterwards the Red Sea [mare suph] divided, 
and the Egyptians overwhelmed therein, the pillar of the cloud going before them by day, and the 
pillar of fire by night, the manna daily showered down from heaven, and although they saw Mount 
Sinai in smoke, and heard JEHOVAH thence speaking, with other miracles of a like kind, 
nevertheless in the midst of such things, they declined from all faith, and from the worship of 
JEHOVAH to the worship of a calf, Exodus 32:1 to the end; hence it is evident what is the effect of 
miracles; still less would be their effect at this day, when it is not acknowledged, that there is 
anything [or influence] from the spiritual world, and when every thing of the sort is denied, and is 

42

attributed to nature; for a principle of denial universally reigns against the divine influx and 
government on earth; wherefore at this day the man of the church, if he was to see the veriest divine
miracles, would first bring them down into nature, and there defile them, and afterwards would 
reject them as phantasms, and lastly would laugh at all who attributed them to the Divine [Being or 
principle] and not to nature; that miracles are of no effect, is also evident from the LORD'S words in 
Luke, "If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rose 
from the dead," Luke 16:31. AC 7290.

Verse 4. Jesus says to her, What [is it] to me and to you, woman? &c. It is to be noted that the LORD 
successively and continually, even to the last of life, when he was glorified, separated from himself 
and put off that which was merely human, namely what he derived from the mother, until at length 
he was no longer her son, but the Son of GOD, as well in regard to nativity, as in regard to 
conception, and thus one with the FATHER, and himself JEHOVAH. That he separated from himself 
and put off all the Human [principle] from the mother, so that he was no longer her son, is clearly 
evident from the LORD'S words in John, "When wine was wanted, the mother of JESUS said to him, 
They have no wine; JESUS says to her, What [is it] to me and to you, woman?" From which words it 
is evident, that the LORD did not call her mother, but woman, and that he transferred the name of 
mother to those who were signified by the disciple who stood near at his crucifixion, to whom he 
said, Behold your mother, John 19:26, 27. As to what further concerns the separation and putting off
of the maternal Human [principle] it is not comprehended by those who have merely corporeal 
ideas concerning the Human [principle of the LORD, and think of it as of the Human [principle] of 
another man; they do not know that such as the life is such is the man, and that the LORD had from 
conception the divine esse of life or JEHOVAH, and that a similar esse of life existed in his Human 
[principle] by union. AC 2649.

Verse 10. You have kept the good wine until now. By wine is signified the divine truth derived from 
the divine good of the LORD; and hence may appear what is signified by these words of the LORD, 
men do not put new wine into old bottles, but they put new wine into new bottles, and both are 
preserved, Matt 9:17; where new wine denotes the divine truth of the New Testament, thus of the 
new church, and old wine denotes the divine truth of the Old Testament, thus of the old church. The
like is signified by these words of the ruler at the marriage in Cana of Galilee, "Every man at first 
sets on good wine, and when they are drunken, then that which is worse; you have kept the good 
wine until now." AR 316.

Respecting marriage see the work entitled "Conjugial Love," from beginning to end.

Verses 14, 15, 16, 17. And found in the temple those that sold oxen, &c. What is here signified by 
temple, may be seen by consulting the extract from the AE at verse 19 below.

By those who sold and bought are signified those who make gain to themselves of things holy; by 
the tables of the money changers are signified from holy truths, and by the seats of them who sold 
doves, are signified those who do so from holy goods; wherefore it is afterwards said, that they 
made the temple into a den of thieves, for thieves are those who plunder the truths and goods of the 
church, and hence make to themselves gain. AE 840.

Verse 18. Then answered the Jews and said to him, What sign show you to us? &c. By a sign is 
understood that which declares, testifies, and persuades concerning a thing inquired after; but by a 
miracle is understood that which excites, strikes, and induces astonishment, thus a sign moves the 
understanding and faith, and a miracle the will and its affection, for the will and its affection is 

43

what is excited, is stricken, and amazed, and the understanding and its faith is what is persuaded, 
what a declaration is made to, and which admits of testification. That in the above words by 
showing a sign is signified to testify by somewhat stupendous, or by a voice from heaven, is 
evident, but whereas such a testification would have damned, rather than have saved them, 
therefore JESUS gave answer concerning the temple, by which he understood his body, that this 
would be dissolved, that is, would die, and would rise again glorified on the third day. AE 706.

Verse 19. Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. 
That temple in the Word signifies the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, and in a respective 
sense heaven and the church, consequently also the divine truth, may appear from the following 
passages, "The Jews said to Jesus, What sign show you to us that you do this? JESUS answered and 
said to them, Dissolve this temple, and I will raise it up again in three days; but he spoke of the 
temple of his body." That temple signifies the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, is here 
expressly said; for by the dissolution of the temple, and its being raised up again after three days, is
understood his death, burial, and resurrection; and in Malachi, "Behold I send mine angel, who 
shall prepare the way before me, and suddenly shall come to his temple the LORD, and the angel of 
the covenant whom you seek," 3:1; in this passage also by temple is meant the Divine Human 
[principle] of the LORD; for the subject there treated of is concerning the LORD'S advent, wherefore 
by coming to his temple is signified to his Human [principle;] and in the Apocalypse, "I saw not a 
temple in the New Jerusalem, for the LORD GOD Omnipotent is its temple, and the Lamb," Rev 
21:22; the subject here treated of is concerning the new heaven and the new earth, when they shall 
be in internals and not in externals; hence it is said that there shall not be a temple, but the Lord 
God Omnipotent and the Lamb; the Lord God Omnipotent is the essential Divine [principle] of the 
LORD, and the Lamb is his Divine Human [principle;] whence also it is evident that his Divine 
Human [principle] in the heavens is understood by temple. And in Isaiah, "I saw the LORD sitting on
a throne high and lifted up, and the borders of his garments filling the temple," Is 6:1; where by a 
throne high and lifted up, on which the LORD was seen to sit, is signified the LORD as to divine truth
in the superior heavens; but by the borders of his garments is signified his divine truth in the 
church; that the borders of the garments, when predicated of the LORD, signify his divine truth in 
ultimates, may be seen, AC 9917 in the Arcana Coelestia. "That the veil of the temple was rent into 
two parts from the top to the bottom after the LORD had suffered," Matt 27:51, signified the union 
of the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD with his Divine [principle] itself may be seen, AC 
9671 of the same work. By temple is signified the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, and at the
same time heaven and the church, in the following passages, "I will bow myself towards the temple
of your holiness, and will confess to your name," Psalm 138:2; and in Jonah, "I said, I am expelled 
from before your eyes, but yet I will again look back to the temple of your holiness. And my prayer 
came to you to the temple of your holiness," Jonah 2:5, 8; and in Habakkuk, "JEHOVAH is in the 
temple of his holiness," Hab 2:20; and in Matthew, "Woe to you blind guides, who say, whoever 
shall swear by the temple, it is nothing; but whoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, is guilty;
you fools and blind, for whether is greater, the gold or the temple which sanctifies the gold?" Matt 
23:16, 17; and in John, "JESUS said to them who sold in the temple, Take those things hence, make 
not the house of my FATHER a house of merchandize," John 2:16, 17. AE 220; see also AC 6426, 
9714, 10528.

Verse 19. And in three days I will raise it up. By the third day and three days is signified what is 
complete and the beginning of sanctification; for day in the Word signifies state, which is also 
signified by year, in general by all times, as an hour, a day, a week, a month, a year, an age, also by 
morning, mid-day, evening, night; likewise by spring, summer, autumn, winter; to which terms, 
when third is added, they signify the end of that state, and at the same time the beginning of a 

44

following state; the reason of the signification is, because the LORD, when he had fulfilled all 
things, rose again on the third day, for the things which were done by the LORD, whilst he lived in 
the world, were as it were done in the representatives of the church, as likewise in the internal sense
of the Word, for in GOD to be done and to be is the same thing, yea all eternity is present to him; 
hence the number three was representative, not only in the ancient church and in the Jewish, but 
also amongst various nations; see what was said concerning this number, AC 720, 901, 1825. AC 
2788.

Verse 21. But he spoke of the temple of his body. By the LORD'S body is signified the divine love, 
and by the temple of the body is signified the divine truth from the divine good; that temple denotes 
the LORD as to divine truth may be seen, AC 3720: and whereas body in the supreme sense denotes 
the divine good of the divine love of the LORD, hence all who are in heaven are said to be in the 
body of the LORD. That the body of the LORD denotes divine good, is manifest also from these 
words in Daniel, "I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, behold one man clothed in linen, whose loins were
girded with gold of Uphaz, and his body as tarshish," Dan 10:6, where by gold of Uphaz, with 
which the loins were girded, is signified the good of love; and by tarshish, as the rest of the body 
appeared, namely, the body in the midst between the head and the loins, is signified the good of 
charity and of faith, for tarshish is a precious stone glittering. AC 6135.

Verse 23. Many believed in his name, &c. By the name of the LORD is understood every thing of 
faith and of love, by which the LORD is to be worshiped, see extract above, chap. i. verse 12. They 
who were of the ancient church by name, did not understand name, but all the quality of a thing, see
AC 144, 145; thus by the name of GOD they understood every thing in one complex whereby GOD is
worshiped, consequently every thing belonging to love and faith: but when the internal principle of 
worship perished, and the external one remained, then by the name of GOD they began to 
understand nothing else but name, insomuch that they worshiped the very name itself, without any 
concern about the principle of love and of faith from which they worshiped: in consequence hereof 
nations began to distinguish themselves by the names of gods, and the Jews and Israelites preferred 
themselves before other nations on account of worshiping JEHOVAH, placing the essential of 
worship in mentioning and invoking a name, when yet the worship of a name only is no worship, 
being practicable with the worst of people, who thereby do but more profane the name. Inasmuch 
as by the name of GOD is signified the all of worship, that is, the all of love and of faith whereby he 
is worshiped, it is evident hence what is meant by these words in the LORD'S prayer, "Hallowed be 
your name," Matt 6:9; and by these words of the LORD, "You shall be hated of all for my name's 
sake," Matt 10:22; "If two shall agree in my name on earth, concerning any thing whatever they 
shall ask, it shall be done for them of my FATHER, who is in the heavens: where two or three are 
gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them," Matt 18:20. When the man of the 
church, as was observed, from internal became external, and began to make worship consist in a 
name only, then they no longer acknowledged one GOD, but several gods; for it was customary with
the ancients to add somewhat to the name of JEHOVAH, thereby to record some kindness or attribute 
of his, as in the present case, "He called on the name of the GOD of eternity;" and in the following 
chapter, "Abraham called the name of that place, JEHOVAH-JIREH, that is, he will see," verse 14; 
again, "Moses built an altar, and called the name thereof JEHOVAH-NISSI, that is, my standard," 
Exodus 17:15; again, "Gideon built an altar to JEHOVAH, and called it JEHOVAH-SHALOM, that is, of 
peace," Judges 6:24; besides other places; hence it came to pass, that they who made worship to 
consist in a name only, worshiped as many gods as there were names; and that amongst the gentiles,
especially in Greece and at Rome, so many gods were acknowledged and worshiped, when yet the 
ancient church, from which those epithets came, never worshiped any but one GOD venerated under
so many names, inasmuch as by name the men of that church understood quality. AC 2724.

45

Verses 24, 25. Because he knew all, &c. By knowing, when it is predicated of GOD, that is, of the 
LORD, is signified to gift with charity; for it is charity which conjoins the LORD with man, and 
makes the LORD to be present with him, consequently to know him; the LORD indeed knows all in 
the universe, but not as a father his sons, except those who are in the good of love and charity; 
therefore the LORD says of those who are in good, whom he calls his sheep, "I am the good 
shepherd, I know my own, and am known by my own; my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, 
and they follow me," John 10:14, 27. But of those who are in evil the LORD says, that he does not 
know them, Matt 7:22, 23; 25:11, 12; Luke 13:25, 26, 27; hence it is evident that to be known, when
it is said by the LORD, denotes to be in the good of charity, that is, denotes to be gifted with that 
good, because all the good of charity comes from the LORD; and that not to be known denotes to be 
in evil; to know involves conjunction, and man is said to be known by the LORD, so far as he is 
conjoined to him: the LORD also knows those who are not conjoined, yea the most singular things 
belonging to every one, but inasmuch as these latter are in evil, they are in another presence, which 
is as it were absence, although the LORD is not absent, but the man and spirit who is in evil. AC 
6806.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 3. And when the wine failed, &c. This is expressed in the common version of the New Testament by 
when they wanted wine, but the original Greek . . . evidently relates to a deficiency of wine, and not to any 
want of it expressed by the guests.

Verse 4. Jesus says to her, What [is it] to me and to you? In the common version of the New Testament this 
passage is rendered, What have I to do with you; but the original Greek . . . is literally What to me and to 
you, conveying a very different idea from what is suggested in the common version, which is harsh and 
repulsive, and thus not at all in agreement with the meekness and gentleness of the divine speaker.

Verse 10. And when they are drunken, not when men have well drunk, as it is expressed in the common 
version; for in the original Greek, which is fjuBvaQuai, no mention is made either of men, or of well, but 
only of being drunken, as the term implies, thus denoting that the guests have drunk to excess, rather than 
well.

Verse 11. This beginning of miracles [signs] did Jesus, &c. It may here be proper to observe, that the terms 
miracle, and miracles, whenever they occur in the Evangelists, and in the Revelations, are expressed in the 
original Greek by the terms sumeion and simeia, signifying a sign, or signs, except in one instance, Mark 
9:39, where the original Greek is dunamig, which properly signifies a power. But occasionally the word 
a^fnuov is rendered a sign, as Matt 16:3, 24:24; Mark 16:17, 20; Luke 21:25, and in other places.

Verse 15. And poured out the money of the money-merchants. It is remarkable that it is not here said 
moneychangers, as before, but in the original Greek another expression is used, which yet is not noticed in 
the common version, namely kollubigstwn, whereas what is rendered moneychangers, is expressed in the 
original by the term KEp^anorae. What the distinction between the two terms properly is, and what the 
distinct ideas which they were intended to convey, may perhaps be difficult to discover, since all that is 
known concerning the terms is, that the former is derived from the Greek substantive Ko\\vffoe, which 
signifies a piece of money, and the latter from the Greek substantive kerma, which also signifies a piece of 
money. There is likewise reason to believe that the nep/Mri-rat gave change for the high foreign gold and 
silver coins, to furnish those that came up to the temple with small money for the temple duties, whilst the 
KoXXw/3iTeu were probably more especially engaged in the exchange, or the agio, between the respective 
countries. There is, however, every reason to believe, that the two terms were intended to convey distinct 
ideas as to their internal meaning, and therefore it is proper to preserve a distinction as to their external 
expression.

46

John Chapter 3

Chapter 3

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. BUT there was a man of the 

Pharisees named Nicodemus, a 
ruler of the Jews.

2. He came to JESUS by night, and 

says to him, Rabbi, we know that 
you are a teacher come from GOD, 
for no one can do these miracles, 
which you do, except GOD be with 
him.

3.

JESUS answered and said to him, 
Verily, verily, I say to you, except a
man [any one] be born from above,
he cannot see the kingdom of GOD,

4. Nicodemus says to him, How can a
man be born, being old? Can he 
enter a second time into the womb 
of his mother, and be born?

5.

JESUS answered, Verily, verily, I say
to you, except a man [any one] be 
born of water and the spirit, he 
cannot enter into the kingdom of 
GOD.

6. That which is born of the flesh is 

flesh; and that which is born of the 
spirit is spirit.

7. Marvel not that I said to you, You 

must be born from above.

8. The wind blows where it wills, and 
you hearest the sound thereof, but 
you know not whence it comes, or 
whither it goes: so is every one that
is born of the spirit.

9. Nicodemus answered and said to 
him, How can these things be?

10. JESUS answered and said to him, 
Art you a teacher of Israel, and 
know not these things?

THAT some in the perverted church, in consequence 
of the miracles which the LORD worked, seek 
conjunction with him, and acknowledge his doctrine 
to be divine, vs 1, 2.

To whom it is taught, that man cannot attain any 
perception of heavenly good and truth, except by 
regeneration, vs 3.

This however is understood by those of the perverted
church, according to a natural idea, and not 
according to a spiritual idea, and therefore they are 
further instructed, that regeneration is effected by a 
reception of the truths of faith in man's 
understanding, and by a love and life in conformity 
with those truths, vs 4, 5.

Because man is at first born merely natural, but has 
the capacity of afterwards becoming spiritual, by a 
life according to truths derived from the Word, and 
therefore he ought not to regard regeneration as a 
strange, or irrational operation, vs 6, 7.

Yet that scarcely any of the innumerable arcana of 
regeneration come to the knowledge and perception 
of man, vs 8.

This cannot be comprehended by those of the 
perverted church, who are in the knowledges of 
external truth, when yet those knowledges ought to 
have conducted them to the apprehension of internal 
truth, vs 9, 10.

47

11. Verily, verily, I say to you, we 
speak that which we know, and 
testify that which we have seen, 
and you receive not our testimony.

12. If I have told you earthly things, 

and you believe not, how will you 
believe if I tell you heavenly 
things?

13. And no one has ascended up to 

heaven except he who came down 
from heaven, the Son of Man, who 
is in heaven.

14. And as Moses lifted up the serpent 
in the wilderness, so must the Son 
of Man be lifted up;

15. That whoever believes in him 

should not perish, but have eternal 
life.

For the literal or external sense of the Word proceeds
from, and is filled with, the interior things of the 
divine truth and wisdom, which things are rejected 
by those who remain in the love of mere natural 
things, and who, on that account, cannot comprehend
celestial and spiritual things, vs 11, 12.

For celestial and spiritual things can only be 
comprehended by those who receive into their minds
and lives the divine truth, inasmuch as the divine 
truth alone comes down from heaven, and therefore 
is alone capable of elevating any into the things of 
heaven, vs 13.

That this divine truth therefore assumed a sensual 
corporeal principle here on earth, to the intent that 
sensual corporeal men might have a divine object of 
faith presented to them, and being thus elevated to 
conjunction with that object, might be preserved 
from the defilement and death of merely sensual and 
corporeal life, vs 14, 15.

16. For GOD so loved the world, that he
gave his only-begotten Son, that 
whoever believes on him should 
not perish, but have eternal life.

That this was effected from the divine love, to the 
intent that mankind might no longer continue 
immersed in mere natural love, but might be raised 
into the sphere of celestial and spiritual love, vs 16.

17. For GOD sent not his Son into the 
world to judge the world, but that 
the world through him might be 
saved.

18. He that believes in him is not 

judged, but he that believes not is 
judged already, because he has not 
believed in the name of the only-
begotten Son of GOD.

Wherefore GOD assumed the Human [nature] to the 
intent that mankind might conjoin goodness and 
truth in their minds and lives, since a right faith in 
the Divine Humanity of the LORD leads to such 
conjunction, whereas a want of that faith leads to 
separation, vs 17, 18.

19. And this is the judgement, that the 
light is come into the world, and 
men loved darkness rather than 
light, for their deeds were evil.

For the Divine Humanity of the LORD is divine truth, 
and if divine truth be rejected in consequence of evil 
love, then nothing appertains to man but the false 
principle of evil, vs 19, 20.

20. For every one who does evil hates 
the light, and comes not to the 
light, lest his deeds should be 
reproved.

48

21. But he who does the truth, comes 
to the light, that his deeds may be 
made manifest, that they are 
worked in GOD.

22. After these things JESUS came, and 
his disciples, into the land of Judea;
and there he tarried with them, and 
baptized.

23. And John also was baptizing in 

Enon, near to Salim, because many 
waters were there; and they came 
near, and were baptized.

24. For John was not as yet cast into 

prison.

25. Then there was a question from the 
disciples of John with the Jews 
about purifying.

26. And they came to John, and said to 
him, Rabbi, he that was with you 
beyond Jordan, to whom you bear 
witness, behold, he baptizeth, and 
all [men] come to him.

27. John answered and said, A man can
receive nothing, except it be given 
him from heaven.

28. You yourselves bear me witness 

that I said, I am not the CHRIST, but 
that I am sent before him.

29. He that has the bride is the 

bridegroom, but the friend of the 
bridegroom, who stands and hears 
him, rejoices with joy because of 
the bridegroom's voice: this my joy
therefore is fulfilled.

On the other hand, if divine truth be loved and 
obeyed, man is conducted to the LORD'S DIVINE 
HUMANITY, because he is willing to acknowledge 
that all the good which he wills and does is from that
divine source, vs 21.

That when the LORD had finished these sayings, he 
instructs the perverted church in the truths of 
purification, which truths also were taught in 
abundance by those who were principled in charity 
and faith, whilst they were in a state of freedom, vs 
22, 23, 24.

Nevertheless these truths are received with doubt by 
those of the perverted church, and therefore it is 
taught that all purifying truth is from the Divine 
Truth, and thus that all wisdom, intelligence, reason, 
and science, are not of man, but of the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 25, 26, 27.

And that the design of all representative truth is only 
to prepare mankind for the reception of the Divine 
Truth, that thus good and truth may be conjoined in 
the church, and the church may rejoice in being 
instructed concerning the precepts of faith, and in 
receiving them in faith and obedience, vs 28, 29.

49

30. He must increase, but I must 

decrease.

Thus the Divine Truth becomes all in all in the 
church, as being inmost truth, and all other good and 
truth only administer externally, vs 30, 31.

31. He who comes from above is above
all: he that is of the earth is of the 
earth, and speaks of the earth: he 
who comes from heaven is above 
all.

32. And what he has seen and heard, 
this he testifies, and no one 
receives his testimony.

33. He that has received his testimony 

has sealed, that GOD is true.

34. For he whom GOD has sent speaks 
the words of GOD; for GOD gives 
not the Spirit by measure [to him.]

35. The FATHER loves the Son, and has 
given all things into his hand.

36. He that believes in the Son has 

eternal life; but he that disobeys the
Son shall not see life, but the wrath 
of GOD abides on him.

For the Divine Truth testifies concerning the LORD, 
both as to his divine wisdom and divine love, and 
notwithstanding its being rejected by the generality 
of mankind, brings conviction along with it to those 
who receive it, vs 32, 33.

Which truth is from the LORD'S Divine Humanity, 
whose intelligence and wisdom are infinite, being in 
eternal union with the divine good, and thus 
possessing the all of that good, vs 34, 35.

Whosoever therefore receives truth from that DIVINE 
HUMANITY with a right faith, is made partaker also of
the divine good, but whoever rejects it, can have no 
apprehension of that good, but remains in his own 
natural evils, vs 36.

Exposition.

Verse 3. Verily, verily, I say to you, except a man be born from above, he cannot see the kingdom of 
God. Every ( man ought to be reformed, and to be born anew or regenerated, that he may come into 
heaven, for no one can see the kingdom of God unless he be born again, John 3:3, 5, 6; man is born
into sin, which has been increased in a long series from parents, grandfathers, and great 
grandfathers, and has become hereditary, and is thus transferred to the offspring; every man born 
into the world is born into so many evils, which have thus successively grown up, and hence it is 
that he is nothing but sin; wherefore unless he be regenerated, he remains wholly in sin. But to the 
intent that he may be regenerated, he ought first to be reformed, and this by the truths of faith; for 
he must learn from the Word, and from doctrine thence derived, what good is; the knowledges of 
good from the Word, or from doctrine thence derived, are called truths of faith, for all truths of faith
spring forth from good, and flow to good, for they respect good as the end; this is the first state, and
is called a state of reformation; into this state several, who are in the church, are introduced from 
infancy even to youth, but still few are regenerated, for several in the church learn the truths of 
faith, or the knowledges of good, with a view to reputation and honour, and also with a view to 
gain, as ends; when therefore the truths of faith have been introduced by those loves, man cannot be
born again or regenerated, until those loves have been removed; to the intent therefore that they 
may be removed, man is let into a state of temptation, which is effected in this manner; those loves 
are excited by the infernal crew, for this crew is willing to live in them, but on this occasion are 
excited by the angels the affections of truth and good, which have been insinuated from infancy, in 

50

a state of innocence, and were afterwards interiorly stored up and preserved for this use; hence 
arises combat between evil spirits and angels, which combat is felt by man as temptation; and 
whereas on this occasion the contest is concerning truths and goods, the truths themselves, which 
had been before insinuated, are as it were exterminated by falses injected from evil spirits, so that 
those truths no longer appear; and as man in such case suffers himself to be regenerated, there is 
insinuated from the LORD by an internal way the light of truth from good into the natural principle, 
into which light truths are remitted in their order. Thus it is with the man who is regenerating, but 
few at this day are admitted into that state. AC 5280.

The man of the church believes at this day, that any one may be received into heaven out of mercy, 
and there enjoy eternal blessedness, whatever his life has been, because it is supposed that nothing 
is necessary for the purpose except the act of admission; but he is much deceived, for no one can be
admitted and received into heaven, unless he has received spiritual life, and no one can receive 
spiritual life, unless he be regenerated, and no one can be regenerated except by good of life 
conjoined to truth of doctrine, hence he has spiritual life; that no one can come into heaven, unless 
he has received spiritual life by regeneration, the LORD manifestly declares in John, "Verily, verily, I
say to you, except a man be born from above, he cannot see the kingdom of GOD;" and again, 
"Verily, verily, I say to you, except a man be generated of water and the spirit, he cannot enter into 
the kingdom of GOD;" water denotes the truth of doctrine, and spirit denotes the good of life. By 
baptism no one enters in, but baptism is significative of regeneration, which the man of the church 
ought to remember. AC 5342.

In the church it is indeed known, that man must be born again, that is, regenerated, that he may 
enter into the kingdom of GOD; this is known, because the LORD has expressly said it in John 3:3, 5;
still however it is known to few what it is to be born again, the reason is, because few know what 
good is and what evil; the reason why it is not known what good is and what evil, is, because it is 
not known what charity towards the neighbour is, for if this was known, it would also be known 
what good is, and from good what evil is, since all that is good, which comes from genuine charity 
towards the neighbour. But no one can be in this good from himself, for it is the very celestial 
principle which flows in from the LORD; this celestial principle is continually flowing in, but its 
reception is opposed by evils and falses; to the intent therefore that it may be received, it is 
necessary that man remove evils, and as far as he is able falses also, and thereby dispose himself to 
receive influx; when man, on the removal of evils, receives influx, he then receives a new will, and 
a new intellectual principle, being made sensible from the new will of delight in doing good to his 
neighbour without any view to himself, and apperceiving from the new intellectual principle, 
delight in learning what is true and good for their own sake and for the sake of life; inasmuch as 
this new intellectual principle and new will principle exist by influx from the LORD, therefore he 
who is regenerated, acknowledges and believes that the good and truth with which he is affected are
not from himself, but from the LORD, also that whatever is from himself, or from the proprium, is 
nothing but evil. From these considerations, it is evident what it is to be born again, also what the 
new will-principle is and the new intellectual principle; but regeneration, by which man receives a 
new intellectual principle and a new will-principle, is not effected in a moment, but is effected from
earliest infancy even to the last period of life, and afterwards in the other life to eternity, and this by
divine mediums innumerable and ineffable; for man of himself is nothing but evil, which is 
continually exhaling as from a furnace, and continually attempting to extinguish the nascent good; 
to remove such evil, and in its place to inroot good, cannot be effected but through the whole 
course of man's life, and by divine mediums which are innumerable and ineffable; of these 
mediums scarcely any are known at this time, by reason that man does not suffer himself to be 
"regenerated, neither does he believe that regeneration is any thing, because he does not believe in a

51

life after death; the process of regeneration, which contains things ineffable, for the most part 
constitutes angelic wisdom, and is such, that it cannot be fully exhausted by any angel to eternity; 
hence it is, that in the internal sense of the Word it is the subject principally treated of, AC 5354.

There are two states, into which man must enter, and through which he must pass, during the 
process of becoming spiritual; the first state is called REFORMATION, and the second 
REGENERATION; man in the first state from his natural principle looks to a spiritual one, and desires 
it; in the second state he becomes spiritual-natural; the first state is formed by truths, which must be
truths of faith, by which he looks to charity; the second state is formed by the goods of charity, and 
from these he enters into the truths of faith; or what is the same thing, the first state is of thought 
from the understanding, but the second is of love from the will; when this latter state commences 
and advances, there is effected a change in the mind, for as much as a turning is effected, because in
such case the love of the will flows in into the understanding, and acts upon and leads it to think in 
agreement and concord with its love: wherefore so far as the good of love in such case is the 
primary agent, and the truths of faith the secondary, in the same proportion man is spiritual, and is a
new creature, and on this occasion acts from charity, and speaks from faith, and is sensible of the 
good of charity, and perceives the truth of faith, and is then in the LORD, and in peace, and thus 
regenerated. The man, who in the world has entered upon the first state, may be introduced after 
death into the second; but he who has not entered into the first state, during his abode in the world, 
cannot after death be introduced into the second, thus cannot be regenerated. These two states may 
be compared with the progression of light and heat in the day during the time of spring, the first 
with twilight or the cock-crowing, the second with morning and day-dawn, and the progression of 
this state with the progression of the day to mid-day, and thereby into light and heat. They may also
be compared with a crop of corn, which at first is grass, next grows into ears and. spikes, and 
afterwards produces grain in them. They may also be compared with a tree, which first grows out of
the earth from a seed, afterwards becomes a stem, from which shoot forth branches, which branches
are adorned with leaves, and next it bears blossoms, and from the inmost principle of these 
blossoms forms the rudiments of fruits, which, as they ripen, produce new seeds, as new offsprings.
The first state, which is that of reformation, may also be compared with the state of a silkworm, 
when it extracts from itself and unfolds the stamina of silk, and after its industrious labour flies 
forth into the air, and nourishes itself not from leaves as before, but from juices contained in the 
flowers. TCR 571. In the same work are also proved the following articles:— 

1. That unless a man be born again, and as it were created anew, he cannot enter into the 

kingdom of GOD, TCR 572 to 576. 

2. That new generation or creation is effected of the LORD alone by charity and faith, as two 

mediums, whilst man cooperates, TCR 576 to 579. 

3. That inasmuch as all are redeemed, all may be regenerated, every one according to his state,

TCR 579 to 583. 

4. That the work of regeneration resembles that of man's conception, of his being carried in the

womb, being born and educated, TCR 583 to 587. 

5. That the first act of new generation is called reformation, which act is of the understanding, 
and that the second act is called regeneration, which act is of the will, and thence of the 
understanding, TCR 587 to 591. 

That the internal man is first to be reformed, and by this the external, and that man is thus 
regenerated, TCR 591 to 596. That whilst this is effecting, combat arises between the internal and 
external man, and in this case he who conquers rules over the other, TCR 596 to 601. That the 
regenerate man has a new will and a new understanding, TCR 601 to 607. That the regenerate man 

52

is in communion with the angels of heaven, and the unregenerate man is in communion with the 
spirits of hell, TCR 607 to 611. That so far as man is regenerated, so far sins are removed, and that 
this removal is what is meant by the remission of sins, TCR 611 to 615. That there can be no 
regeneration without free-will in spiritual things, TCR 615 to 618. That there can be no 
regeneration without truths, by which faith is formed, and with which charity conjoins itself, TCR 
618 to 621; see also the Heavenly Doctrine of the New Jerusalem, 173 to 187.

Verse 4. Nicodemus says to him, How can a man be born when he is old? &c. That Nicodemus 
understood natural generation instead of the spiritual generation of which the LORD spoke, is 
evident, wherefore the LORD teaches him concerning regeneration, that it is effected by truths from 
the Word and by a life according to them, which is signified by being generated of water and the 
spirit, for water, in the spiritual sense, denotes truth from the Word, and spirit denotes life 
according to truth; that man is born natural, and is made spiritual by a life according to truths from 
the Word, is signified by that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is generated of the 
spirit is spirit; that the natural man, unless he be made spiritual, cannot be saved, is understood by 
these words, unless a man be born of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of 
the heavens. AE 710.

In other passages of the Word, where mention is made of being with child, of bringing forth, of 
begetting and generating, the spiritual sense of the terms is not explained, and yet by them is 
understood spiritual parturition, birth, nativity, and generation, inasmuch as the Word in the letter is 
natural, but in its bosom is spiritual; the reason why to bring forth, signifies to bring forth 
spiritually, is, because the man who is regenerating, is in like manner as it were conceived, carried 
in the womb, born and educated, like a man conceived of his father, and carried in the womb and 
born of the mother, and afterwards educated. AE 721.

Verse 5. Except a man be generated of water and of the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of 
God. By water is here meant the spiritual principle of faith, and by spirit its celestial principle, thus 
baptism is a symbol of man's regeneration from the LORD by the truths and goods of faith; not that 
regeneration is effected by baptism, but by the life signified in baptism, into which life Christians 
must enter, who have the truths of faith, because they have the Word. AC 2702.

To be generated of water denotes by the truth of faith; and to be generated of spirit denotes by the 
good of love. AC 9454.

By water in this passage, as in other passages in the Word, is signified truth in the natural or 
external man, and by spirit truth derived from good in the spiritual or internal man. TCR 144.

The reason why no one can enter into the kingdom of GOD, unless he be generated again is, because
man hereditarily from his parents is born into evils of every kind, with the faculty that by the 
removal of those evils he is capable of becoming spiritual, and unless he become spiritual, he 
cannot come into heaven; from natural to become spiritual is to be re-born or regenerated. But that 
it may be known in what manner man is regenerated, these three things are to be considered, 
namely what the quality of his first state is, which is a state of damnation; what the quality of his 
second state is, which is a state of reformation; and what the quality of his third state is, which is a 
state of regeneration. 



The first state, which is a state of damnation, appertains to every man hereditarily from his 
parents, for man is born from an hereditary principle into the love of self and into the love 

53

of the world, and from these loves, as fountains, into evils of every kind; the delights of 
these loves are the delights by which he is led, and they have this effect, to make him 
ignorant that he is in evils; for every delight of love is no otherwise felt than as a good; 
wherefore also man, unless he be regenerated, knows no otherwise than that to love himself 
above all things is essential good, and that to rule over all, and that to possess the wealth of 
all others, is the highest good: hence also comes all evil, for a man in such case regards no 
one else from love but himself only, and if he regards another from love, it is as a devil 
regards a devil, and as a thief a thief, when they act in unity. They who confirm those loves, 
and the evils thence flowing, from a principle of delight in themselves, remain natural, and 
become sensually corporeal. These after death, when they become spirits, cannot have any 
other delight than that which they had in their spirit in the world, and this delight is the 
delight of infernal love, which is turned into what is undelightful, painful, and direful, 
which in the Word is meant by infernal torment and fire. From these considerations it is 
evident, that the first state of man is a state of damnation, and that they are in that state who 
do not suffer themselves to be regenerated. 
The second state of man, which is the state of reformation, is, when man begins to think of 
heaven from the joy which prevails there, and thus of GOD, from whom is the joy of heaven;
but this he thinks at first from the delight of self-love, that delight being to him the joy of 
heaven; but so long as the delight of that love, together with the delights of the evils therein 
originating, predominates, he cannot understand any otherwise, than that admission into 
heaven consists in pouring out prayers, in hearing preachings, in celebrating the holy 
supper, in giving to the poor, in assisting the needy, in endowing churches, in contributing to
hospitals, and in other similar things; neither does man in this state know any otherwise, 
than that merely to think the things which religion teaches is saving, whether such thought 
be what is called faith, or what is called faith and charity: the reason why he thinks thus is, 
because he thinks nothing of evils in the delights of which he is, and so long as their 
delights remain, evils also remain, in which case there is neither faith, charity, piety, nor 
worship, except only in externals, which appear before the world to be real, but still they are
not so. So long as man is in this state, to think of heaven and of GOD from religion, and to 
think nothing about evils as sins, he is still in the first state; but he comes into the second 
state, or the state of reformation, when he begins to think that there is such a thing as sin, 
and especially when he thinks of some particular sin, and when he explores it in some 
degree in himself, and does not will it. 
The third state of man, which is the state of regeneration, succeeds to, and is a continuation 
of the former state, commencing when man desists from evils as sins, and advancing as he 
shuns them, and being perfected as he fights against them, in which case, as he conquers 
from the LORD, he is regenerated. With the man who is regenerating, the order of life is 
inverted, and from natural he becomes spiritual; for the natural principle separate from the 
spiritual is contrary to order, and the spiritual is according to order; wherefore the 
regenerate man acts from charity, and makes that the principle of his faith which is the 
principle of his charity. Nevertheless he does not become spiritual in any further degree than
as he is in truths; for every man is regenerated by truths, and by a life according to them; for
by truths he knows what life is, and by life he does them; thus he conjoins good and truth, 
which is the spiritual marriage, in which is heaven. DP 83.





He who does not know that the LORD, both in the prophetical books and in those of the evangelists, 
spoke by correspondences, consequently that in the Word there is an internal sense, cannot in any 
wise know what is understood by the LORD'S words in John, "Verily, verily, I say to you, except any
one be generated of water and the spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of GOD; that which is 

54

born of the flesh is flesh; but that which is generated of the spirit is spirit. The wind blows where it 
wills, and you hearest its voice; but you know not whence it comes, and whither it goes: so is every 
one that is generated of the spirit," John 3:5, 6, 8. If these words be unfolded by correspondences, it
is evident what their sense is; for they contain the arcana of heaven. From correspondence water 
denotes the truth of faith, which in the natural man comes to manifest perception. Spirit denotes the 
divine truth, which flows in from the LORD through man's internal principle into his external or 
natural principle, whence the man who is regenerating has the life of faith; flesh denotes the 
proprium of man, which is nothing but evil; the wind blowing where it wills signifies that the LORD,
by divine truth derived from mercy, gives new life; hearing its voice signifies that those things 
come to perception in the external or natural man; voice denotes what is announced from the Word; 
by not knowing whence it comes and whither it goes is signified, that man does not know in what 
manner regeneration is effected, for it is effected by innumerable and ineffable arcana from the 
LORD. AC 10240.

Verse 6. That which is born of the flesh, &c. By flesh in the supreme sense is signified the divine 
proprium of the LORD, which is his Divine Human [principle] thus the good of his love towards the 
universal human race; hence flesh, in a sense relating to man, denotes the proprium vivified from 
the proprium of the LORD, that is, the proprium of the LORD belonging to man, thus the good of love
to him: but in the opposite sense, flesh denotes the proprium of man, thus the evil of self-love, and 
hence the lusts or cravings of that love. It is from this ground that flesh and spirit in the Word are 
opposed to each other, as in John, "That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is 
generated of the spirit is spirit," John 3:6; again, "It is the spirit which vivifies, the flesh profits 
nothing," John 6:63; in which passages flesh denotes the proprium of man. AC 8409. By spirit is 
signified life from the LORD, and by flesh life from man; life from the LORD is the life of love and of
faith to him from him, and life from man is his proprium. AC 10283.

Verse 8. The spirit [or wind] blows where it wills, &c. Inasmuch as man is regenerated by a life 
according to divine truth, and all divine truth, by which man is regenerated, proceeds from the 
LORD, and flows in with man when he is ignorant of it, hence it is said, the wind blows where it 
wills, and you hearest its voice, but knows not whence it comes and whither it goes. Thus is 
described the life of the spirit of man which he has by regeneration; wind denotes the divine truth 
by which that life is produced; in what manner it flows in from the LORD, man is altogether 
ignorant during his abode in the world, inasmuch as he then thinks from the natural man; he only 
perceives somewhat which flows in from the spiritual man into the natural; this therefore is what is 
understood by the words, you hearest its voice, and know not whence it comes and whither it goes. 
AE 419. See also AC 6686, 8286.

Verse 8. The wind blows where it wills, &c. That the arcana of regeneration are innumerable, 
inasmuch as regeneration continues during the whole life of man, but that scarcely any of those 
arcana come to the knowledge and perception of man. This is understood by the LORD'S words, 
"The wind blows where it wills, and you hearest the sound thereof, but know not whence it comes 
and whither it goes; so is every one that is born of the spirit." Heavenly Do100:186.

Verse 12. If I have told you earthly things and you believe not, how shall you believe if I tell you of 
heavenly things? The case herein is this: Divine truth is not received by any one unless it be 
accommodated to the apprehension, consequently unless it appear in a natural form and aspect; for 
human minds at first only comprehend terrestrial and worldly things, and nothing at all of spiritual 
and celestial things; wherefore if spiritual and celestial things were nakedly exposed, they would be
rejected as if they were nothing, according to the LORD'S words in John, "If I have told you earthly 

55

things and you believe not, how should you believe if I told you of heavenly things?" Still less did 
they believe who lived before the LORD'S coming, and who at length were in such blindness, that 
they knew nothing, because they desired to know nothing, concerning a life after death, concerning 
the internal man, concerning charity and faith, and concerning any thing celestial; they rejected 
those things, because they held them in aversion; for they who regard terrestrial and worldly things 
as ends of life, that is, who love them above all other things, hold spiritual things in aversion, and 
almost abhor the very name of them; the case is nearly similar at this day. The learned men of the 
world indeed believe, that they would more willingly receive the Word, if heavenly things had been
nakedly exposed, and if it had not been written in such simplicity; but they are very greatly 
deceived, for in such case they would have rejected it more than the simple, and would have seen in
it no light, but mere thick darkness; for such darkness is induced by human erudition with those 
who trust to their own intelligence, and extol themselves on that account above others. AC 8783; 
compare also what is said on the subject at AC 2553.

Verse 13. And no one has ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, the Son of 
Man, who is in heaven. From these words it is evident that the Son of Man is the divine truth in the 
heavens; for this divine truth descends and thus ascends, since no one can ascend into heaven, 
unless the divine truth descended into him from heaven, for influx is divine, but not contrariwise; 
inasmuch as the LORD is that truth, therefore he calls himself the Son of Man who is in the heavens. 
AC 9807.

Verses 14, 15. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be 
lifted up, that every one who believes in him may not perish, but have eternal life. That the brazen 
serpent represented the LORD as to the external sensual, or natural principle, may be seen in the 
Arcana Coelestia, AC 197; that faith in the LORD was represented by the revival of those who saw 
or looked upon that serpent, the LORD himself teaches in John, "As Moses lifted up the serpent in 
the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that every one who believes in him may not 
perish, but have eternal life." AC 3863.

That the brazen serpent represented the LORD may be seen, John 3:14, 15; that it also represented 
protection, is evident; for healing by looking on the serpent, which was on the sign, signified 
healing from evils of the false by looking on the LORD from a principle of faith. AC 8624.

The Divine Natural [principle] of the LORD was signified by the brazen serpent commanded to be 
set up by Moses in the wilderness, by looking on which all were healed who were bitten of 
serpents, Numb 21:6, 8, 9; that it signified the Divine Natural [principle] of the LORD, and that they 
are saved who look to that principle, the LORD himself teaches in John, As Moses lifted up the 
serpent in the wilderness, so must the SON OF MAN be lifted up, &c. The reason why that serpent 
was made of brass is, because brass signifies the natural principle as to good. AR 49. That brass 
signifies natural good may also be seen in Isaiah 60:17; Jer 15:20, 21; Ezek 27:13; Deut 8:7, 9; 
33:24, 25. AR 775.

The sensual things, which are the ultimates of the life of man, are signified by the fiery flying 
serpents sent amongst the people, who were desirous to return into Egypt; but healing from the bite 
of such serpents, by the Divine Sensual [principle] of the LORD, is signified by the brazen serpent 
set upon a sign, at the sight of which they revived, Num 21:5-9: it is called the Divine Sensual 
[principle] of the LORD, because the LORD, when he was in the world, glorified, that is, made his 
whole Human [principle] divine, as may be manifest from this consideration, that he left nothing in 
the sepulchre, and that he said to the disciples, A spirit has not flesh and bones as you see me have, 

56

Luke 24:39, 40. The ultimate sensual principle, which the LORD also glorified or made divine, is 
signified by the brazen serpent set on a sign; by such a sign the LORD was represented before the 
Israelitish and Jewish people, because they were merely sensual, and the sensual man cannot 
elevate his thought, when directed to the LORD, beyond and above the sensual principle; for every 
one looks at the LORD according to the elevation of his understanding, the spiritual man to the 
Divine Rational [principle] and so forth. From these considerations it is evident, that by the brazen 
serpent is also signified the sensual principle, but the sensual principle glorified, or the Divine 
[principle] of the LORD. AE 581.

Verses 15, 16. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Inasmuch as 
acknowledgement of the LORD is the first of all principles of spiritual life, and the most essential 
principle of the church; and inasmuch as without it no one can receive from heaven any thing of the
truth of faith and of the good of love, therefore the LORD also often says, that he who believes in 
him has eternal life, and he who does not believe has not life, as John 3:14, 15, 16, 36; 5:39, 40; 
6:28, 29, 30, 34, 35, 40, 47, 48; 7:37, 38; 8:24; 11:25, 26; 20:30, 31. But he also teaches at the same
time, that they have faith in him, who live according to his precepts, thus that life thence derived 
should enter faith. AC 10083.

That the acknowledgement of the essential Divine [principle] in the Human [principle] of the LORD 
is an essential of the church, and hence an essential of its worship, is grounded on this 
consideration, that the salvation of the human race depends on the union of those principles; to 
effect that union also the LORD came into the world; therefore the whole Word in its inmost sense 
treats of that union, and the rituals of the church established amongst the sons of Israel represented 
and signified it. That the salvation of the human race is from that source, consequently that that 
acknowledgement is an essential of the church and its worship, the LORD teaches in many passages,
as in John, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life, 3:15, 16. AC 
10370.

Verse 18. He that believes not is judged already, because he. has not believed in the name of the 
only-begotten Son of God. By the name of God is signified every thing in one complex by which 
GOD is worshiped, consequently the all of faith and love. See Exposition of chap. 2:23.

Verses 17, 19. For God sent not his Son into the world to judge the world, but that the world by him
may be saved. This is the judgement, that light is come into the world, &c. As to what concerns 
judgement, it is twofold, namely from good, and from truth; the faithful are judged from good, but 
the unfaithful from truth; that the faithful are judged from good, is manifest in Matthew 25:34-40; 
and that the unfaithful are judged from truth, is manifest from verses 41 to 46 of the same chapter; 
to be judged from good is to be saved, because they who are so judged have received good; but to 
be judged from truth is to be damned, because they who are so judged have rejected good; good is 
of the LORD, and they who acknowledge this in life and faith are of the LORD, wherefore they are 
saved; but they who do not acknowledge in life, consequently not in faith, cannot be of the LORD, 
thus neither can they be saved: therefore they are judged according to the actions of their life, and 
according to thoughts and ends, and when according to these, they must needs be damned, for the 
truth is, that man of himself does, thinks, and intends nothing but evil, and of himself plunges into 
hell, only so far as he is withheld thence by the LORD. So the case is in respect to judgement from 
truth, the LORD in no case judges any one except from good, for he is willing to lift up all men 
whatever into heaven, yea, if he was able, even to himself; for the LORD is mercy itself and good 
itself; mercy itself and good itself cannot in any wise damn any one, but it is man who damns 
himself, because he rejects good; in proportion as man, during his life in the body, has shunned 

57

good, in the same proportion he shuns it in the other life, consequently he shuns heaven and the 
LORD; for the LORD cannot dwell except in good; he dwells indeed in truth, but not in truth separate 
from good. That the LORD does not damn any one, or judge him to hell, he himself says in John 
3:17, 19. AC 2335. See also the Treatise on the LORD, 25.

By judgement is signified arrangement, the reason of which signification is, because divine truth 
does not judge any one, but flows in and arranges that it may be received; from reception 
judgement is afterwards effected according to the laws of order, and this is meant by the judgement 
of the LORD, Matt 25:31 to the end; John 5:22, 26, 27, 30; 9:39. That this is meant, is manifest from 
the LORD'S words, where he says that he judges no one, John 3:17-21. AC 8685.

Few at this day know what is meant by the Last Judgement. It is generally supposed that it is to be 
accompanied with the destruction of the world; and it is hence conjectured, that this terrestrial 
globe is to perish by fire, together with all things that exist in the visible world; and that then, for 
the first time, the dead shall rise again, and shall undergo their judgement; when the wicked are to 
be cast into hell, and the good to ascend into heaven. These conjectures are grounded in the 
prophetical parts of the Word, where mention is made of a new heaven and a new earth, and also of 
the New Jerusalem; mankind not being aware, that the prophetical parts of the Word, in their 
internal sense, have a totally different signification from what appears in the literal sense; and that 
by heaven, or the sky, is not meant heaven or the sky, nor by earth the earth, but the church of the 
LORD in general, and with every individual in particular. By the last judgement is meant the last 
time of the church; and also, the last time of every one's life. To speak of it, first, as denoting the 
last time of the church. It was the last judgement of the most ancient church, or that before the 
flood, when their posterity perished, whose destruction is described by the flood. It was the last 
judgement of the ancient church, or that after the flood, when almost all who belonged to that 
church became idolaters, and were dispersed. It was the last judgement of the representative church 
which succeeded among the posterity of Jacob, when the twelve tribes were carried away into 
captivity, and dispersed amongst the nations; and afterwards when the Jews, after the coming of the
LORD, were driven out of the land of Canaan, and scattered over the face of the whole earth. The 
last judgement of the present church, which is called the Christian church, is what is meant, in the 
Revelation of John, by the new heaven and the new earth. 

That the last time of the life of every man, when he dies, is to him the last judgement, is not 
unknown to some, but still few believe it. Nevertheless it is a certain truth, that every man rises 
again after death into another life, and undergoes his judgement. This judgement is thus 
accomplished. As soon as his corporeal organs grow cold, which happens a few days after his 
decease, he is raised again of the LORD by celestial angels, who are at first attendant on him; but in 
case he be such that he cannot remain with them, he is then received into the care of spiritual 
angels; and successively afterwards into the care of good spirits. For all who come into the other 
life, be they who they may, are welcome guests who meet a kind reception. But as every one's 
desire follows him, he who has led a wicked life cannot abide long with the angels and good spirits,
but successively separates himself from them, repeating these separations till he comes among 
spirits whose life is similar and conformable to that which he had while in the world. It then 
appears to him as if he was in his former bodily life, and, in fact, his present life is a continuation of
his past. From this life his judgement commences. They who have led a wicked life, in process of 
time descend into hell: and they who have led a good life, are by degrees elevated by the LORD into 
heaven. Such is the last judgement of every individual person; of which we have spoken from 
experience in the first part of this work: see AC 168—189. As to what the LORD spoke concerning 
the last times, saying, that then the sea and the waves shall roar, the sun shall be darkened, the 

58

moon shall not give her light, the stars shall fall from heaven, nation shall rise against nation, and 
kingdom against kingdom, with several other particulars; Matthew 24:7, 29; Luke 21:25; they all, 
both in general and in particular, signify the state of the church, in regard to what it would be at the 
time of the Last Judgement. By the sea and the waves roaring, nothing else is signified, than that 
heresies and controversies, in general within the church, and in particular in every individual, 
would be thus noisy and outrageous: by the sun nothing else is meant than love to the LORD and 
towards our neighbour; by the moon, faith; and by stars, the knowledges of faith; which in the last 
times would thus be darkened, would not give light, and would fall from heaven, that is, would 
vanish away. The like is said by the LORD in Isaiah 13:10, Also, by nation rising up against nation 
and kingdom against kingdom, nothing else is meant than evils rising against evils, and falsities 
against falsities, &c. There are reasons, replete with arcana, why the LORD thus spoke in this style. 
That seas, the sun, the moon, the stars, nations, and kingdoms, have such a signification, I know of 
a certainty; and it was shown in the first part of this work.1 AC 2117—2120.

Verse 19. And men loved darkness rather than light, &c. The LORD calls himself the light, because 
he was the divine truth itself when in the world; hence by light is signified the LORD as to divine 
truth, and also divine truth from the LORD; and whereas darkness is opposed to light, by the 
darkness which men loved more than light is signified the infernal false principle, which is the false
of evil; that it is the false of evil which in this passage is signified by darkness, is manifest from its 
being said, because their works were evil, since from evil works or from evils of life exists the false
of evil; for as good conjoins to itself truth, so evil conjoins to itself the false, inasmuch as one is of 
the other. AE 526.

Light denotes truths, and darkness denotes falses; light also denotes the LORD, because from him is 
all truth; darkness denotes the hells, because thence is every thing that is false. AC 1839.

Verse 21. But he that does truth comes to the light, &c. Charity alone does not produce good works,
still less faith alone, but charity and faith together do produce; the reason is, because charity 
without faith is not charity, neither is faith without charity faith; wherefore charity alone is not 
given, nor faith alone, hence neither can it be said that charity by itself produces any good works, 
nor faith by itself; the case herein is similar as with will and understanding, for will alone is not 
given, consequently neither does it produce any thing; nor is understanding alone given, nor is it 
productive, but all production is effected by both together, and thus by understanding grounded in 
the will; the reason why the case is similar is, because the will is the habitation of charity, and the 
understanding is the habitation of faith; the reason why faith alone is still less productive is, 
because faith is truth, and its operation is to do truths, and these illuminate charity and its exercises;
that they illuminate, the LORD teaches, where he says, "He who does truth comes to the light, that 
his works may be made manifest, inasmuch as they are worked in GOD," John 3:21; wherefore 
when man does good works according to truths, he does them in light, that is, intelligently and 
wisely. TCR 377.

From these considerations it is evident, that truths are the means by which the good of love exists, 
and becomes something; consequently, that good loves truths that it may exist. Hence in the Word 
by doing truth is understood to make good to exist. This is meant by doing truth, John 3:21; by 
doing the Lord's sayings, Luke 6:47; by doing his precepts, John 14:24; by doing his words, Matt 
7:20; by doing the Word of God, Luke 8:21; and by doing statutes and judgements, Levit 17:5. This 

1 But concerning the Last Judgement see the work, expressly on that subject, entitled the "Last Judgement, and 

Babylon Destroyed."

59

also is meant by doing good and producing fruit, for good and fruit is that which exists. Doc. of 
Life, 39.

Verse 27. John answered and said, A man cannot take any thing, except it be given him from 
heaven. That wisdom, intelligence, reason, and science, are not of man, but of the LORD, is clearly 
manifest from the things which the LORD taught, as in Matthew, where the LORD compares himself 
to a householder, who planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and let it out to husbandmen,
Matt 21:33; and in John, "The Spirit of Truth shall lead you into all truth, for he shall not speak of 
himself, but whatever things he shall hear, he shall speak; he will glorify me, because he will take 
of mine, and will announce it to you," John 16:13, 14; again, "A man cannot take any thing, unless 
it be given him from heaven," 3:27. AC 124.

In the church there is not any other truth given than what is of the LORD; the truth which is not from
him is not truth, as is also manifest from the Word, and thence from the doctrine of faith; from the 
Word in John, "A man cannot take any thing, unless it be given him from heaven," John 3:27; and 
in another place, "Without me you cannot do any thing," John 15:5; and from the doctrine of faith, 
teaching that the all of faith, that is, all truth is from the LORD. AC 2904.

That man cannot do good, which in itself is good, except from the LORD, he himself teaches in 
John, "Abide in me, and I in you, for without me you cannot do any thing," John 15:4, 5; and again,
"A man cannot take any thing, unless it be given him from heaven." TCR 439.

Verse 29. He that has the bride is the bridegroom, &c. The bride denotes the truth which is of the 
faith of the church, and the bridegroom denotes the good which is of the love of the church, each 
from the LORD; thus they denote the man of the church, with whom good is conjoined with truths. 
AC 9182.

But the friend of the bridegroom which stands and hears him, &c. By hearing is signified to receive
in the memory and to be instructed, also to receive in the understanding and to believe, and likewise
to receive in obedience; and to hear a voice denotes to be instructed concerning the precepts of 
faith, and to receive them in faith and obedience. A. C. 9311.

Verse 32. And what he has seen and heard that he testifies, &c. The divine truth proceeding from 
the LORD is called a testimony from this circumstance, that it testifies concerning the LORD, as 
appears from the words of the LORD himself in John, "He who comes from heaven is above all; 
what he has seen and heard, this he testifies." AC 9503.

Verse 34. For he whom God has sent, &c. In the Word it is sometimes said of the LORD, that he was
sent by the FATHER, but in all cases by being sent is signified in the internal sense to go forth, as in 
John, "They have received and known truly, that I came forth from you, and they have believed that 
you have sent me" John 17:8; the same is the signification of being sent in this passage. AC 2397.

For God gives not the spirit by measure, By the spirit which GOD gives, is signified the divine truth,
and thence intelligence and wisdom; by not giving it by measure is signified above all quantity and 
quality of men, consequently what is infinite, for the infinite belonging to the LORD has not quantity
and quality, inasmuch as quantity and quality are properties of what is finite, for quantity and 
quality determine what is finite, and terminate it; but what is without termination is infinite; from 
which consideration it follows, that measure also here signifies quality, since not by measure 
signifies without predication of quality. AE 629.

60

Spirit here denotes intelligence and wisdom; to speak the words of God denotes divine truths. AC 
9818.

Verse 35. The Father loves the Son, and has given all things into his hand. That the things which 
are in the heavens and in the earths are the LORD'S, is manifest from very many passages in the 
Word, as well from those which are in the Old Testament, as from these in the evangelists, Matt 
11:27; Luke 10:22; John 3:34, 35; 17:2; Matt 28:18; and whereas the LORD rules the universal 
heaven, he rules likewise all the things which are on the universal earth, for he who rules one rules 
all, inasmuch as from the heaven of angels depends the heaven of angelic spirits, from this the 
world of spirits, from this again the human race; and in like manner all things which are in the 
world and nature are dependent on the heavens, for without influx from the LORD through the 
heavens, nothing at all would exist and subsist which is in nature and her threefold kingdom. AC 
2026.

That in the heavens no other Divine [Being or principle] is acknowledged and worshiped, but the 
LORD as to the Divine Human [principle] may be manifest from the LORD'S words in the 
evangelists, as from the following, "All things are delivered to me by the FATHER," Matt 11:27; 
"The FATHER has given all things into the hand of the Son," John 3:34, 35; "The FATHER has given 
to the Son power over all flesh," John 17:2; see also John 15:5; 17:11; Matt 28:16. AC 10067; see 
also AC 3704.

Verse 36. He that believes on the Son has eternal life, &c. The very essence and life of faith is the 
LORD alone, for he who does not believe in the LORD cannot have life, as it is written in John, "He 
who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who believes not the Son, shall not see life, but the 
wrath of GOD abides on him." AC 30.

Hence may appear what the lot of those is in the other life, who are born within the church, and still
in heart deny the LORD, whatever may be their quality as to moral life; by abundant experience also 
it has been given to know, that such cannot be saved, as the LORD likewise openly teaches in John 
3:36. AC 10112.

The reason why an acknowledgement of the divine [principle] itself in the Human [principle] of the
LORD is an essential of the church, and hence an essential of its worship, is, because the salvation of
the human race depends solely on that union; for the sake of effecting that union also the LORD 
came into the world; therefore likewise the whole Word in the inmost sense treats of it, and the 
rituals of the church established among the sons of Israel represented and signified it. That the 
salvation of the human race is from that source, the LORD teaches in several passages, as in John, 
"He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who believes not the Son, shall not see life," 
where the Son denotes the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD. The reason why they have not 
eternal life who do not acknowledge the LORD from a principle of faith, is, because the whole 
heaven is in that acknowledgement. AC 10370.

They who are born within the church ought to acknowledge the LORD, his Divine [principle] and 
his Human, and to believe in him and love him, for from the LORD is all salvation: this the LORD 
teaches in John 3:36. AC 10817; see also the Treatise on the LORD, 55.

The anger of God abides on him. When anger is attributed in the Word to JEHOVAH, it does not 
denote anger, but the opposite to anger, thus mercy. That JEHOVAH has not any anger, is evident 
from this consideration, that he is love itself, good itself, and mercy itself, and anger is an opposite, 

61

and also is an infirmity, which cannot be predicated of GOD; wherefore when anger in the Word is 
predicated of JEHOVAH, or the LORD, the angels do not perceive anger but either mercy, or the 
removal of evil from heaven. The reason why anger is attributed to JEHOVAH or the LORD in the 
Word, is, because it is a most general truth that all things come from GOD, thus both evils and 
goods; but this most general truth, which is intended for infants, for children, and the simple, ought 
afterwards to be illustrated, namely by showing that evils are from man, but that they appear as if 
they were from GOD, and that it is so said to the intent that they may learn to fear GOD, and not 
perish by the evils which they do, and that afterwards they may love him, for fear must precede 
love, to the intent that in love there may be holy fear; for when fear is insinuated into love, it 
becomes holy from the holy principle of love, and in such case it is not a fear of the LORD'S anger 
and punishment, but lest they should act against essential good, because this will torment the 
conscience. Moreover the Israelites and Jews were driven to observe the statutes and precepts in the
external form by punishments, and hence they believed that JEHOVAH was angry and punished, 
when yet they themselves induced such things by their idolatry; hence by anger, wrath, fury, fire, 
are meant the punishments and damnations into which man casts himself, when into evils. That 
punishment and damnation are signified by anger, appears from John 3:36. AC 6997.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 3. Except a man be born from above, &c. What is here rendered from above is expressed, in the 
common version of the New Testament, by the term again, but in the original Greek the term is arudtv, 
which means literally from above, and thus expresses the important and edifying idea, that man's new birth is
from a principle or power superior to himself.

Verse 5. He cannot enter into the kingdom of God. It was said at verse 3, "He cannot see the kingdom of 
GOD;" but here it is said, "He cannot enter into the kingdom of GOD;" plainly pointing out a distinction 
between seeing and entering into, seeing having relation to the birth of truth in the understanding, and 
entering into having relation to the good of truth, or the conjunction of truth with its good, in the will and 
life.

Verse 11. We speak that which we have known, and testify that which we have seen. It is remarkable that in 
this verse the LORD speaks in the plural number, whereas in the next verse he speaks in the singular. In this 
verse therefore he makes a distinction between speaking and testifying, also between knowing and seeing, 
because speaking and knowing relate more to the good of his divine love, whilst testifying and seeing relate 
more to the truth of his divine wisdom, thus both expressions taken together relate to the divine and 
heavenly marriage, which is manifested in every part of the sacred volume. But to show that this marriage 
existed in himself, and thus that in speaking in the plural number he had respect to those two divine 
principles existing in himself, he in the next verse speaks in the singulAR number, If I have told you earthly 
things, &c.

Verse 34. for God gives not the spirit by measure. In the common version of the New Testament, it is here 
added in italics to him, as if the immeasurable gift of the spirit was confined to the ONLY-BEGOTTEN SON, but
in the original Greek there is no such limitation, and therefore we may conclude that every gift of the Divine 
Spirit to every one is immeasurable.

Verse 36. He that believes on the Son has eternal life, but he that disobeys the Son, &c. What is here 
rendered disobeys is rendered believes not in the common version of the New Testament, but the original 
Greek is apeithei, which properly signifies to disobey, or to be disobedient to, thus inculcating the edifying 
lesson, that it is not simply unbelief, or a mere dissent in the understanding, which condemns man, but a 
disobedient will, or a will not inclined to accede to divine testimony, by loving and doing what it requires.

62

John Chapter 4

Chapter 4

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

THAT the LORD perceived from his Divine principle 
in what manner the perverted church was offended at
his teaching internal truths, and their prevalence over
external, and that thus purification was effected by 
the truths derived from good, therefore he again 
applies himself to plant the church amongst the 
Gentiles, vs 1, 2, 3, 4.

And first amongst those who are principled in 
interior truths, in connection with interior spiritual 
good, thus with the Word, from which instruction is 
given in the things of love and charity, after a state of
spiritual labour, vs. 5, 6.

That on this occasion, they who are principled in the 
affection of good in that church seek instruction in 
truth, and this from divine dictate, to the intent that 
from the doctrine of truth they might appropriate 
good, vs 7, 8.

They are therefore inquisitive concerning the divine 
dictate and its requirements, not being aware of the 
operation of such a dictate, and are accordingly 
instructed that it is from the DIVINE HUMANITY of the
LORD, who is the source of every truth of good, and 
who imparts such truth to those who apply to him for
it, vs 9, 10.

1. WHEN therefore the LORD knew 
that the Pharisees had heard, that 
JESUS made and baptized more 
disciples than John,

2. Though JESUS himself baptized not,

but his disciples,

3. He left Judea, and departed again 

into Galilee.

4. But he must needs go through 

Samaria.

5. Then he comes to a city of Samaria
called Sichar, near to the parcel of 
ground which Jacob gave to his son
Joseph.

6. But the fountain of Jacob was 
there. JESUS therefore, being 
wearied with the journey, sat thus 
at the fountain. It was about the 
sixth hour.

7. There comes a woman of Samaria 
to draw water. JESUS says to her, 
Give to me to drink.

8. For his disciples were gone away 

into the city to buy meat.

9. Then says the Samaritan woman to 
him, How is it that you being a Jew
ask to drink of me, who am a 
Samaritan woman? For the Jews 
have no dealings with the 
Samaritans.

10. JESUS answered and said to her, If 
you knew the gift of GOD, and who 
it is that says to you, Give me to 
drink, you would have asked of 
him, and he would have given you 
living water.

63

11. The woman says to him, LORD, you
have no vessel to draw with, and 
the well is deep; whence then have 
you that living water?

12. Art you greater than our father, 

Jacob, who gave us the well, and 
drank thereof himself, and his sons,
and his cattle.

13. JESUS answered and said to her, 
Whosoever drinks of this water 
shall thirst again;

14. But whoever drinks of the water 

which I shall give him, shall never 
thirst; but the water which I shall 
give him, shall be in him a fountain
of water springing up into eternal 
life,

This however appears incredible to those, who 
believe only in the letter of the Word, and who 
therefore do not see that all the Jewish patriarchs 
were representative of the LORD, and that all the 
instruction they received from the Word was in 
consequence of its connection with his DIVINE 
HUMANITY, vs 11, 12.

Therefore they are further instructed, that the truths 
of the Word can never become full and living and 
eternal truths in man, until they are seen and received
as one with the divine truth, which is the same thing 
as the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 14.

15. The woman says to him, LORD, 

give me this water, that I thirst not, 
neither come here to draw.

And in consequence of this instruction, they are led 
earnestly to desire the knowledge of the interior 
truths of the Word, vs 15.

But are further taught that such interior truths cannot 
be apprehended, until conjunction of good and truth 
be formed in the intellectual principle, which 
conjunction was at present not genuine or legitimate,
vs 16, 17, 18.

16. JESUS says to her, Go, call your 

husband, and come here.

17. The woman answered and said, I 
have not a husband. JESUS said to 
her, You have well said, I have not 
a husband.

18. For you have had five husbands, 

and he whom you now have is not 
your husband; in this you said truly.

64

19. The woman says to him, LORD, I 
perceive that you are a prophet.

20. Our fathers worshiped in this 
mountain; and you say that in 
Jerusalem is the place where it is 
expedient to worship.

21. JESUS says to her, Woman, believe 
me that the hour comes, when 
neither in this mountain, nor in 
Jerusalem, you shall worship the 
FATHER.

22. You worship what you do not 
know; we worship what we do 
know; for salvation is of the Jews.

23. But the hour comes, and now is, 
when the true worshipers shall 
worship the FATHER in spirit and 
truth, for the FATHER seeks such 
that worship him.

24. GOD [is] Spirit; and they that 

worship him, must worship in spirit
and in truth.

25. The woman says to him, I know 

that Messias comes, who is called 
CHRIST; when he is come, he will 
tell us all things.

26. JESUS says to her, I am, that speaks 

to you.

Hence they perceive that the LORD in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY is the source of all truth, and hence they 
are further instructed that representative worship is 
to cease, because it is a worship unattended with 
intellectual light, and that it is to be supplanted by a 
worship grounded in love, and enlightened by 
wisdom, which worship leads to conjunction with the
SUPREME GOOD, vs 19, 20, 21, 22, 23.

Because GOD is divine love and wisdom in a human 
form, or in a DIVINE HUMANITY, and therefore none 
can worship him acceptably but from that love and 
according to that wisdom, vs 24.

That it is revealed to those of the church who are in 
the affection of good, that divine truth will be 
manifested on earth in a bodily form, to impart 
instruction, and they are further taught from the 
Word, that the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY is that 
truth, in union with the DIVINE GOOD, vs 25, 26.

27. And upon this came his disciples, 
and wondered that he talked with 
the woman; yet no one said, What 
seek you? or what speak you with 
her?

That with those who are principled in truth, the 
establishment of the church amongst the Gentiles 
appears strange, and they are afraid to inquire into 
the purpose intended by it, or the manner of its 
accomplishment, vs 27.

28. The woman then left her water-pot,
and went away into the city, and 
says to the men,

29. Come, see a man who has told me 
all things whatever I have done: Is 
not this the CHRIST?

But they who are in the affection of good, when they 
have received instruction in truth, form their lives 
accordingly, and testify by doctrine that the divine 
truth is manifested as a man, who is thus omniscient, 
and acquainted with all the purposes and thoughts of 
man, vs 28, 29.

65

Which testimony is received in the church, and thus 
the LORD is approached in his DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 
30.

For to the end that he might be so approached, he 
from divine love glorified his Humanity, or made it 
divine, by submitting it to the government of the 
divine good in himself, until divine truth in himself 
became divine good, vs 31, 32, 33, 34.

And thus a spiritual church was established which 
was in the affection of truth, and by virtue of that 
affection, in heaven, and thus conjoined with the 
LORD in his joy, vs 35, 36.

For the LORD dispenses truth and its affection, to the 
intent that the church may thereby attain to the 
heavenly good of love and charity, vs 37.

And may thus appropriate to itself all the good things
of heaven and of the LORD, himself, vs 38.

They therefore, who are principled in spiritual good, 
acknowledge the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY, 
from a belief in his omniscience, and Seek and attain
conjunction of life with him, vs 39, 40.

30. Then they went out from the city, 

and came to him.

31. In the meantime the disciples asked

him, saying, Rabbi, eat.

32. But he said to them, I have meat to 

eat which you know not of.

33. Then the disciples said one to 

another, Has any one brought him 
to eat?

34. JESUS says to them, My meat is to 
do the will of him that sent me, and
to finish his work.

35. Say not you, that there are yet four 

months, and harvest comes? 
Behold, I say to you, lift up your 
eyes, and look upon the fields, for 
they are white already to harvest.

36. And he who reaps receives 

compensation, and gathers fruit to 
eternal life, that both he that sows 
and he that reaps may rejoice 
together.

37. And in this is the saying true, that 
one sows, and another reaps.

38. I sent you to reap that on which 
you bestowed no labour; others 
have laboured, and you have 
entered into their labours.

39. But many of the Samaritans of that 
city believed in him, on account of 
the saying of the woman who 
testified, He told me all things 
whatever I have done.

40. So when the Samaritans were come
to him, they asked him to remain 
with them, and he remained there 
two days.

66

And are thus taught) not by external teaching only, 
but by the testimony of the divine good and truth in 
their own minds, that the LORD in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY was the predicted Redeemer and Saviour 
of mankind, vs 41, 42.

That the Gentiles are again instructed in the truth, 
which is rejected by those of the perverted church; 
and that they receive instruction, and become a 
church, being convinced of the omnipotence of truth,
vs 43, 44, 45.

And that thus their natural ideas of truth become 
spiritual, but as yet not fully conjoined with good, vs 
46.

Therefore supplication is made to the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY for assistance, and that they may 
be preserved from the influence of evil love, vs 47.

This supplication, however, does not proceed from a 
genuine but from a miraculous faith, nevertheless it 
is granted, and thus a genuine faith is implanted, vs 
48, 49, 50.

41. And many more believed, because 

of his own word;

42. And said to the woman, We no 
longer believe because of your 
saying, for we have heard him 
ourselves, and know that this is 
truly the Saviour of the world, the 
CHRIST.

43. But after two days he departed 
thence, and went into Galilee.

44. For JESUS himself testified that a 
prophet has no honour in his own 
country.

45. When therefore he came into 

Galilee, the Galileans received him,
having seen all things which he did 
in Jerusalem at the feast; for they 
also went to the feast.

46. Then JESUS came again into Cana 
of Galilee, where he made the 
water wine. And there was a certain
courtier, whose son was sick at 
Capernaum.

47. He hearing that JESUS was come 
out of Judea into Galilee, went to 
him, and besought him that he 
would come down and heal his son;
for he was about to die.

48. Then said JESUS to him, Unless you
see signs and wonders, you will not
believe.

49. The courtier said to him, LORD, 

come down before my child dies.

50. JESUS says to him, Go your way, 
your son lives. And the man 
believed the word which JESUS said
to him, and went his way.

67

51. And as he was now going down, 
his servants met him, and told, 
saying, Your son lives.

52. Then inquired he of them the hour 
when he began to amend. And they 
said to him, Yesterday at the 
seventh hour the fever left him.

53. Then the father knew that [it was] 
at the same hour in which JESUS 
said to him, Your son lives. And 
himself believed, and his whole 
house.

54. This is again the second miracle 

[sign] that JESUS did, when he was 
come out of Judea into Galilee.

And its conjunction with charity is acknowledged in 
all the lower principles of life, and seen to be the 
effect of the reception of the divine truth proceeding 
from the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, which is the 
source of genuine faith, vs 51, 52, 53.

Thus the church amongst the Gentiles was confirmed
in the faith, not only by observing that their natural 
ideas of truth were become spiritual, but by 
experiencing also the conjunction of truth with good,
or of faith with charity, resulting from their belief in 
the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 54.

Exposition.

Verse 5. Then comes he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sichar, &c. This city was formerly 
called Sechem, and by it is signified interior truth. AC 4430.

Verse 6. Now Jacob's fountain [or well] was there, &c. The fountain of Jacob denotes the Word, 
and the doctrine of truth thence derived, and it was on this account that, when the LORD came to the
fountain of Jacob, he discoursed with the woman of Samaria, and taught what is signified by a 
fountain and by water, as described in John 4:5, 6, 7, 10, 13, 14. Inasmuch as the fountain of Jacob 
signified the Word, water truth, and Samaria the spiritual church, as appears abundantly from the 
Word, therefore the LORD discoursed with the woman of Samaria, and taught that the doctrine of 
truth is from himself, and that when it is from himself, or, what is the same thing, from his Word, it 
is a fountain of water springing up into eternal life, and that the truth itself is living water. AC 
2702.

That the words which the LORD himself spoke in the evangelists, are life, is taught in John 4:6, 10, 
11; where by the fountain of Jacob is signified the Word, as likewise Deut 33:28; therefore also the 
LORD sat there, and discoursed with the woman; and by water is signified the truth of the Word. SS 
2.

The reason why the LORD discoursed with the woman of Samaria at Jacob's fountain [or well] was, 
because by the woman of Samaria was understood the church about to be established amongst the 
Gentiles, and by the Samaritans, who were also mentioned in another place, are understood the 
Gentiles who were about to receive doctrine from him and concerning him; by that fountain [or 
well] is signified doctrine from the Word, by water the truth of doctrine, and by the LORD sitting at 
that fountain [or well] the Word or divine truth; that there is salvation by divine truth out of the 

68

Word from the LORD, is signified by the LORD'S words, the water which I shall give him shall 
become a fountain of water springing up into eternal life. AE 537.

That the Word of the LORD is such, that it gives life to him who is thirsty, that is, to him who desires
life, and that it is a fountain whose waters are living, the LORD teaches in John 4:10, 14. The ground
and reason why the Word is alive, and thus gives life, is, because in the supreme sense the LORD is 
there treated of, and in the inmost sense his kingdom is treated of in which the LORD is all in all; 
hence it is that the LORD calls himself, as to the Word which is from himself, a fountain of water 
springing up into eternal life. AC 3424.

Verse 10. Jesus said to her, If you knew who it is that says to you, Give me to drink, &c. By 
drinking is signified to be instructed in goods and truths, and to receive them. AC 3069.

That waters signify the truths of faith, see AC 10238.

Verse 14. Whosoever shall drink of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst, &c. Water in 
this passage manifestly denotes the truth of faith from the Word, thus from the LORD; not to thirst 
denotes that truth will no longer be wanting. AC 8568.

Verse 23. The true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. Spirit is the life of 
man; and that it specifically denotes the life of truth, which is the life of the intellectual part in man,
and is called intelligence, is clear from John 4:23, 24. AC 9818.

Verse 24. God is a Spirit, &c. In all the heavens there is no other idea of GOD but the idea of a man; 
the reason is, because heaven in the whole and in part is in form as a man, and the divine [principle]
which is with the angels, makes heaven. It is owing to this circumstance of GOD being a man, that 
all angels and all spirits are in a perfect human form. GOD is called a spirit, and GOD, as a spirit, is 
the spiritual principle proceeding from him. DIVINE LOVE AND WISDOM, DLW 11, 100.

Verse 32. I have meat to eat that you know not of. By meat is signified celestial good; and the 
reason is, because the meats of the angels are nothing else but the goods of love and charity, by 
which they are not only vivified, but are also recreated; those goods in act, or their exercises, are 
principally a recreation to the angels, for they are their desires; and that desires, which are obtained 
by act, are conducive to recreation and life, is a known thing. In the Word, in many passages, 
mention is made of meats or food; he who is unacquainted with the internal sense cannot know 
otherwise than that common [or bodily] meats are there understood, when yet spiritual meats are 
meant; hence it is evident how the interiors and exteriors of the Word, or the things which are of the
spirit and the things which are of the letter, correspond to each other, so that whilst man 
understands them according to the sense of the letter, the attendant angels understand the same 
thing, according to the spiritual sense; thus the Word is written that it may not only serve the human
race, but also heaven, on which account, all the expressions therein are significative of celestial 
things, and all the things therein are representative of them, and this even to the least iota. That 
meat in the spiritual sense denotes good, the LORD also manifestly teaches in John 6:27, 55; 4:32, 
33, 34. AC 5147.

Verse 34. My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, &c. To do the will of the Father, and to 
perform his work, is divine good in act, or exercise, which in the genuine sense is meat, as was said 
above. AC 5147.

69

Food [or meat] in the internal sense properly signifies these things which nourish the soul of man, 
that is, which nourish him after the life of the body, for he then lives a soul or spirit, and no longer 
has need of material food, but of spiritual food, which food is all that which is of use, and all that 
which conduces to use; what conduces to use is to know what is good and true; what is of use is to 
will and do them; these are the things by which the angels are nourished, and which therefore are 
called spiritual and celestial food. The mind of man, where his interior understanding and interior 
will are, or where his intentions or ends are, is also not nourished by any other food when he lives 
in the body; material food does not penetrate thither, but only to those things which are of the body,
which that food supports, to the end that the mind may enjoy its food when the body enjoys its. The
reason why food in the spiritual sense denotes every thing which is of use, is, because all man's 
science, and all his intelligence and wisdom, and thus all his faculty of willing, ought to regard use 
as their end, hence according to the quality of use is the quality of man's life. That meat, or food, in 
the internal sense, denotes every thing which is of use, is evident from these words of the LORD, I 
have meat to eat which you know not of; my meat is to do the will of him who sent me, and to 
perform his work. AC 5293.

Verses 35, 36, 37. Say not you, There are yet four months, and then comes harvest? Behold, I say to
you, lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, for they are white already to harvest, &c. These words
relate to a new church from the LORD; that it is at hand, is signified by the fields which are white 
already to harvest; they of that church who are in the spiritual affection of truth, and thence in 
heaven, are understood by the words, he who reaps receives wages, and gathers fruit to eternal life;
and the LORD himself, from whom that affection of truth and heaven are, is signified by him who 
sows rejoicing together. AE 695.

These words were spoken by the LORD concerning a new church about to be established by him; 
that the establishment of that church is now at hand, is understood by the words, lift up your eyes, 
and look on the fields, that they are white already to harvest; to teach those who are about to be of 
that church, and as the LORD says elsewhere, to collect and gather them together into the garner, is 
signified by reaping; that they who teach, thus who collect and gather together, are not themselves, 
but the LORD, since whom the disciples have converted to the church, the LORD has prepared to 
receive by the angels, that is, by divine truths from the Word, these things are understood, by one 
sowing and another reaping. I sent you to reap that for which you have not laboured; others have 
laboured, but you are entered into their labours. AE 911.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 6. But the fountain of Jacob was there. Jesus therefore being weary with the journey, sat thus at the 
fountain. In the common version of the New Testament, what is here rendered fountain is called well, but the
original Greek is pege, which properly signifies a fountain, or water springing or bubbling up, whereas a 
well is expressed by the term phrear, which occurs at verses 11 and 12, and denotes water in a state of mere 
stagnation. A fountain therefore, or pege, in its internal sense, is expressive of an order of truth more 
connected with good, than what is expressed by the term well, or phrear, on which account the two terms 
ought not to be confounded together, but kept distinct.

Verse 26. Jesus says to her, I am, that speaks to you. In the common version of the New Testament, the latter
words of this verse are thus expressed, I that speak to you am [he] but in the original Greek they are thus 
expressed, Ego eimi, o lalon soi, which literally is, in the English language, I am that speaks to you. Thus the
blessed JESUS, on this, as on other occasions, asserts his supreme divinity, by taking to himself the 
emphatical appellation of I AM, so peculiarly characteristic of ESSENTIAL DEITY.

70

Verse 29. Come, see a man who has told me all things whatever I have done. Is not this the Christ? These 
words, it is plain, cannot be understood literally, since it is impossible to suppose that the BLESSED JESUS 
literally told the Samaritan woman all that she had ever done. But the case appears to be this, that the words 
of the BLESSED JESUS had so operated on the mind of the woman, as to bring to her recollection the whole of 
her past life, not only in regard to its external form in words and deeds, but likewise as to its internal form in 
motives and ends, and consequently it appeared to her as if JESUS had told her all. Well therefore might she 
exclaim, Is not this the Christ.

Verse 35. Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes, and look on the fields. These words are remarkable, and by 
their internal sense and meaning demonstrate the divinity of the speaker, inasmuch as they point to distinct 
degrees of spiritual light, and at the same time to the proper object on which it ought to be exercised. For 
when it is said, Behold, I say to you, the words are designed to excite attention to the DIVINE SPEAKER; and 
when it is said further, lift up your eyes, the necessity is urged of an elevation of the spiritual eye, or the 
understanding, before any spiritual object can be properly seen and contemplated; and when it is added 
lastly, look on the fields, the state of the church, in regard to its reception of heavenly seed, or the eternal 
truth, is announced as the important spiritual object, towards which spiritual light ought to be directed, and 
in the contemplation of which it ought to be employed. Thus we are instructed, that our first and principal 
duty is to regard JESUS CHRIST, or the INCARNATE GOD, as the great and only fountain of all truth; and our 
second is, to elevate our understandings, by raising them out of and above the perishable objects of time and
sense; whilst the third is, to consider seriously and attentively the state of the church generally, and of our 
own hearts individually, as to the insemination, the growth, the fruitfulness and harvest of the eternal truth.

Verse 46. And there was a certain courtier, &c. The original term here rendered courtier is basilikos, which 
is derived from the substantive basileus, (a king), and thus denotes a person employed about a king, or in a 
king's business.

Verse 48. Then said Jesus to him, Except you see signs and wonders, &c. The Greek term here rendered 
signs is semeia, and the Greek term rendered wonders, is terata, from teras, which properly signifies a 
prodigy or miracle, and is accordingly rendered by the Latin term miraculum, where it is translated in the AE
706, on which occasion the enlightened author points out the internal distinction between a sign and a 
miracle, showing that the former denotes a testification which applies more to the conviction of the 
understanding, whilst the latter is a testification which applies more to the excitement of the will.

71

John Chapter 5

Chapter 5

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

THAT the LORD, as to his humanity, initiated himself
into the doctrine of the church, which was in 
connection with the knowledges of good and truth 
derived from the Word, thus with truths introductory 
to good, vs 1, 2.

Which truths are imparted to all those who are made 
sensible of their natural infirmities and disorders, 
whether arising from a defect, of intelligence, or 
from intelligence not yet formed into life, or from 
faith separate from charity, and thus produce 
vivification through acknowledgement and faith, vs 
3.

And this in consequence of divine influx, so that 
whoever receives the knowledges of good and truth 
with his supreme affection, or love, experiences 
purification from evil, and restoration of spiritual 
life, vs 4.

Yet some, by reason of the unsettled state of their 
wills, make slower progress in purification than 
others, until they are excited to exploration of their 
secret purposes and intentions, and have their 
affections and thoughts thereby elevated, so as to live
according to the truth, vs 5, 6, 7, 8.

1. AFTER these things there was a 
feast of the Jews; and JESUS went 
up to Jerusalem.

2. But there is in Jerusalem at the 
sheep [market or gate] a pool, 
which is called in Hebrew 
Bethesda, having five porches.

3.

In these lay a great number of the 
impotent, the blind, the halt, the 
withered, waiting for the moving of
the water.

4. For an angel at a certain season 
went down into the pool, and 
disturbed the water: whoever then 
first went in after the disturbance of
the water, was made whole of 
whatever disease he had.

5. But there was a certain man there 
who had an infirmity thirty and 
eight years.

6.

JESUS seeing him lying, and 
knowing that he had been now a 
long time [there] says to him, Will 
you be made whole?

7. The impotent man answered him, 
LORD, I have no man, when the 
water is disturbed, to put me into 
the pool, but whilst I am coming, 
another steps down before me.

8.

JESUS says to him, Arise, take up 
your bed, and walk.

72

9. And immediately the man was 

made whole, and took up his bed, 
and walked; but the sabbath was on
that day.

10. The Jews therefore said to him that 
was cured, It is the sabbath; it is not
lawful for you to take up the bed.

11. He answered them, He who made 
me whole, the same said to me, 
Take up your bed, and walk.

12. Then they asked him, Who is the 

man who said to you, take up your 
bed, and walk?

13. But he that was healed knew not 
who it was; for JESUS silently 
conveyed himself from the 
multitude that was in the place.

14. After these things JESUS finds him 
in the temple, and said to him, 
Behold, you are made whole; sin 
no more, lest a worse thing come 
upon you.

In which case they also are restored to the life of 
heaven, whilst the doctrine, in which they believe, is 
elevated to that life, so as to influence their lives, and
thus introduce them into a state of eternal rest and 
peace, vs 9.

That they, who are of the perverted church, are 
offended on this occasion, and are instructed that all 
elevation of doctrine to conjunction with the life of 
heaven is an effect resulting from the divine love of 
the LORD, in his DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 10, 11.

Hence they are led to seek knowledge concerning 
that DIVINE HUMANITY, but are not permitted, by 
reason of the evils and falses in which they are 
principled, to attain such knowledge, vs 12, 13.

That they, who are purified from evils and falses, are 
cautioned against the danger of profanation, which 
consists in turning back again to such evils and 
falses, vs 14.

15. The man departed, and told the 
Jews, that it was JESUS who had 
made him whole.

Being therefore thus cautioned, they bear testimony 
to the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, as being the only 
source, of all spiritual and eternal life, vs 15.

16. And on this account the Jews 

persecuted JESUS, and sought to kill
him, because he did these things on
the sabbath.

But are opposed in this testimony by those of the 
perverted church, who abide in representative 
worship, and do not discern how all representatives 
had reference to the union of the Divine and Human 
nature in the LORD, vs 16.

17. But JESUS answered them, My 

FATHER works hitherto, and I work.

Wherefore these latter are instructed, that the union 
of the two natures is effected reciprocally, vs 17.

18. Therefore the Jews sought the more
to kill him, because he not only 
break the sabbath, but said also that
GOD was his FATHER, making 
himself equal to GOD.

But this instruction only excites more of evil, being 
perversely interpreted as tending not only to destroy 
all representative worship, but also to confound 
divinity with humanity, and humanity with divinity, 
vs 18.

73

19. Then answered JESUS, and said to 
them, Verily, verily, I say to you, 
the Son can do nothing of himself, 
but what he sees the FATHER doing; 
for what things soever he does, 
these also does the Son in like 
manner.

20. For the FATHER loves the Son, and 
shows him all things that himself 
does; and he will show him greater 
works than these, that you may 
wonder.

21. For as the FATHER raises up the 

dead, and makes alive, so the Son 
makes alive whomsoever he wills.

22. For the FATHER judges no one, but 
has given all judgement to the Son.

23. That all may honour the Son, as 
they honour the FATHER. He that 
honours not the Son, honours not 
the FATHER who sent him.

24. Verily, verily, I say to you, that 
whoever hears my word, and 
believes on him that sent me, has 
eternal life, and shall not come into
judgement, but is passed from 
death into life.

25. Verily, verily, I say to you, that the 
hour comes, and now is, that the 
dead shall hear the voice of the Son
of GOD, and they who hear shall 
live.

Therefore they are further instructed, that divine 
truth can do nothing of itself, but from the divine 
good, and thus divine truth in the LORD'S humanity 
always operates in conjunction and agreement with 
divine good in his divinity, vs 19.

And this in consequence of the divine love, which 
manifests to its humanity all its purposes, until its 
humanity is fully glorified, or made divine, that so 
mankind may be led to adoration, vs 20.

And also to the discovery, that by virtue of such 
glorification, the humanity receives from the divinity
the power of imparting spiritual life, and thus of 
delivering man from the power of evil, vs 21.

Also the power of arranging the several principles of 
the human mind, and thus of separating the evil from
the good, which cannot be effected by the divine 
good alone without the divine truth, vs 22.

To the intent that thus the Humanity of the LORD may
always be seen in union with his divinity, and 
regarded as an equal object of worship and 
adoration, since otherwise the divinity itself cannot 
be worshiped and adored, vs 23.

They therefore, who obey the divine truth, and 
approach the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY, are 
admitted into heaven, and never separating truth 
from good, are raised from a state of damnation to a 
state of salvation, vs 24.

For since the assumption of the Human [principle] 
by the Divine, all who are in ignorance may learn the
truths of faith, and may thus be gifted with spiritual 
life, vs 25.

26. For as the FATHER has life in 

himself, so has he given also to the 
Son to have life in himself.

Inasmuch as the internal of the LORD being JEHOVAH,
his Humanity has independent and underived life, 
alike with his divinity, vs 26.

27. And has given him power to do 

judgement also, because he is the 
Son of Man.

And has also the power of separating evil from good,
and thus of arranging all goods and truths, as being 
itself the supreme truth, vs 27.

74

28. Wonder not at this, for the hour 

comes in which all who are in the 
sepulchres shall hear his voice;

29. And shall come forth, they who 
have done good things, to the 
resurrection of life; but they who 
have done evil things, to the 
resurrection of judgement.

30. I can of my own self do nothing; as
I hear, I judge; and my judgement 
is just, because I seek not mine 
own will, but the will of the 
FATHER, who sent me.

31. If I bear witness of myself, my 

witness is not true.

32. There is another who bears witness 
of me, and I know that the witness 
is true which he bears of me.

33. You sent to John, and he bear 

witness to the truth.

34. But I receive not witness from 

man; but these things I say that you
might be saved.

35. He was a burning and shining 

lamp, and you were willing to be 
glad for an hour in his light.

36. But I have a greater witness than 
John; for the works which the 
FATHER has given me that I may 
finish them, the same works that I 
do, bear witness of me that the 
FATHER has sent me.

37. And the FATHER himself who sent 
me has borne witness of me; you 
have neither heard his voice at any 
time, nor have seen his shape.

So that at his appearing even natural men shall be 
instructed in the divine truth, and if they obey it, 
shall attain spiritual life; but if they be disobedient, 
shall immerse themselves in spiritual death, vs 28, 
29.

For the Humanity of the LORD operates solely from 
the divinity in itself, and is thus in divine truth from 
divine good, because in all things it exalts the divine 
good, vs 30.

Therefore divine truth claims no authority to itself 
separate from divine good, but only in union with 
that good, vs 31, 32.

Neither does it claim authority from human 
testimony, but from its own divine power of 
communicating spiritual life, vs 33, 34.

Yet the testimony of man in favour of the divine truth
is grounded both in good and truth, and has a 
tendency to impart to others those heavenly 
principles, vs 35.

Nevertheless the glorification of the LORD'S 
Humanity, the subjugation of the hells, and the 
consequent redemption of mankind, are the fullest 
proofs that the LORD is one with JEHOVAH, vs 36.

Thus the divine good, which in itself is invisible, 
testifies that it is made visible in the DIVINE 
HUMANITY, which it assumed for that purpose, vs 37.

38. And you have not his word abiding 
in you, because whom he has sent, 
him you do not believe.

But this is not believed by those, who are not 
enlightened and enlivened by the truth of that good, 
vs 38.

75

Therefore all such are exhorted to explore the Holy 
Word which contains that truth, and which testifies 
throughout concerning the assumption and 
glorification of the LORD'S Humanity, vs 39.

Nevertheless they, who are of the perverted church, 
will not draw near to and abide in that Humanity, 
although there is no other source of good and of 
truth, vs 40.

Which Humanity testifies that it is purely Divine, 
and that they who reject it have no genuine affection 
of truth, vs 41, 42.

Therefore they do not approach the ETERNAL in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY, because they believe the truth to 
be unconnected with that its divine source, vs 43.

And this in consequence of exalting human authority
above the authority of divine truth, vs 44.

So that even the truth of the Word, which they 
profess to believe, condemns them, since that truth 
testifies concerning the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, 
and therefore if its testimony be not admitted, the 
LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY cannot be acknowledged, 
vs 45, 46, 47,

39. Search the Scriptures, for in them 
you think you have eternal life, and
they are they who testify of me.

40. And you will not come to me, that 

you may have life.

41. I receive not glory from men.

42. But I know you that you have not 
the love of GOD in yourselves.

43. I am come in the name of my 

FATHER, and you do not receive me:
if another shall come in his own 
name, him you will receive.

44. How can you believe, who receive 
glory one of another, and seek not 
the glory which is from GOD alone?

45. Think not that I will accuse you to 
the FATHER; there is one who 
accuses you, [even] Moses, in 
whom you trust.

46. For if you had believed Moses, you
would have believed me; for he 
wrote of me.

47. But if you believe not his writings, 
how shall you believe my sayings?

Exposition.

Throughout this chapter it is proved in general that the LORD is one with the FATHER, for by the 
FATHER is every where understood the divine good, and by the Son the divine truth, each in the 
LORD; from the divine good, which is the FATHER, nothing can proceed or go forth but what is 
divine, and that which proceeds or goes forth is the divine truth, which is the Son. AC 3704.

Verses 2 to 7. There is at Jerusalem a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, where 
lay a great number of impotent folk, waiting for the moving of the water; for an angel went down at
a certain season and disturbed the water, &c. By moving or disturbing is here signified to vivify or 
to give divine life, and this is from correspondence, for all motion corresponds to a state of thought;
hence progressions, journeyings, and the like, which are acts of motion, in the Word signify states 
of life; by moving the water therefore, in the above passage, was in like manner signified 
vivification by acknowledgement and faith, thus also purification by truths; and by healing was 
represented the restoration of spiritual life. AC 10083.

76

Verse 8. Jesus says to him, Rise, take up your bed and walk, &c. By healing of the sick is signified 
the purification of man from evils and the falses of evil; by bed is signified doctrine, and by 
walking, life. That all healings of diseases by the LORD involve purifications from evils and falses, 
or restorations of spiritual life, may be seen, AC 8364, 9086; that to walk denotes life, see AC 519, 
1744, 8420; that bed denotes doctrine, is manifest from the passages in the Word where bed is 
named, and likewise from representatives in the other life, where, when a bed appears and one lying
in it, the doctrine is signified in which he is principled; hence beds appear there most highly 
ornamented for those who are principled in truths derived from good; but that such things are 
signified by the above words of the LORD, no one can know unless by the internal sense; for the 
LORD spoke by correspondences, thus by significatives, because from the Divine [Being or 
principle]. AC 10360.

By the LORD saying to the sick, Arise, take up your bed and walk, is signified doctrine and a life 
according to doctrine; bed signifies doctrine, and to walk signifies life, and the sick signify those 
who have transgressed and sinned, wherefore the LORD said to the sick man at the pool of Bethesda,
Behold, you are made whole, sin no more lest a worse thing come upon you. They who know 
nothing of the internal sense of the Word, may believe that the words which the LORD spoke involve
nothing more than what is extant in the letter, when yet singular the things, which the LORD spoke, 
have a spiritual sense, because he spoke from the Divine [Being or principle] thus before heaven at 
the same time as before the world. AE 163.

Verse 9. And on the same day was the sabbath. By the sabbath was represented in the supreme 
sense the union of the Divine and of the Divine Human [principle] in the LORD, and in the 
respective sense the conjunction of the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD with the human race; 
hence the sabbath was most holy; and because it represented those things, it also represented 
heaven as to the conjunction of good and truth; which conjunction is called the celestial marriage. It
was by reason of this representation that so many cures were performed by the LORD on the sabbath
days; for the diseases, which were cured by the LORD, involved spiritual diseases, which come from
evil. AC 8495.

All diseases belonging to man have correspondence with the spiritual world; for whatever in 
universal nature has not correspondence with the spiritual world, it has not existence, having no 
cause from which it can exist, consequently from which it can subsist; the things which are in 
nature, are nothing but effects, their causes are in the spiritual world, and the causes of those 
causes, which are ends, are in the interior heaven. An effect cannot subsist, unless the cause be 
continually in it, for on the cessation of the cause the effect ceases; an effect considered in itself is 
nothing but the cause, but the cause so extrinsically clothed, as may serve to enable it to act as a 
cause in an inferior sphere; and as the case is with an effect in respect to the cause, so also is it with 
the cause in respect to the end; unless the cause also exist from its cause, which is the end, it is not 
a cause, for a cause without end is a cause in no order, and where there is no order, there is not any 
thing effected. Hence then it is evident, that an effect considered in itself is a cause, and that a cause
considered in itself is an end, and that the end of good is in heaven, and proceeds from the LORD, 
consequently that an effect is not an effect unless the cause be in it, and be continually in it, and that
a cause is not a cause, unless the end be in it, and be continually in it; and that an end is not an end 
of good, unless the Divine [principle] which proceeds from the LORD be in it. Hence also it is 
evident, that all and singular things in the world, as they have existed from the Divine [Being or 
principle] exist also from the Divine [Being or principle.] AC 5711.

77

These observations are made in order that it may be known, that diseases also have correspondence 
with the spiritual world, not correspondence with heaven, which is the grand man, but with those 
who are in the opposite, thus with those who are in the hells. By the spiritual world in the universal 
sense is meant both heaven and hell, for man, when he dies, passes out of the natural world into the 
spiritual world. The reason why diseases have correspondence with those who are in the hells is, 
because diseases correspond to the lusts and passions of the mind (animus), these therefore are the 
origins of diseases; for the origins of diseases in common are intemperance, luxuries of various 
kinds, pleasures merely corporeal, also envyings, hatreds, revenges, lasciviousness, and the like, 
which destroy the interiors of man, and when these are destroyed, the exteriors suffer, and draw 
man into disease, and thereby into death; that man is subject to death by reason of evils, or on 
account of sin, is a thing known in the church, thus also he is subject to diseases, for these are of 
death. From these considerations it may be manifest, that diseases also have correspondence with 
the spiritual world, but with unclean things there, for diseases in themselves are unclean, inasmuch 
as they originate in things unclean, according to what was said above. AC 5712.

All the infernals induce diseases, but with a difference, by reason that all the hells are in the lusts 
and cravings of evil, consequently contrary to those things which are of heaven, wherefore they act 
upon (or into) man from an opposite principle; heaven, which is the grand man, contains all things 
in connection and safety; hell, as being in the opposite principle, destroys and rends all things to 
pieces; consequently if the infernals are applied, they induce diseases, and at length death. But it is 
not permitted them to flow in even into the solid parts of the body, or into the parts which constitute
the viscera, the organs, and members of man, but only into the lusts and falsities: only when man 
falls into disease, they then flow in into such unclean things as appertain to the disease; for, as was 
said, nothing in any wise exists with man, unless the cause also be in the spiritual world; the natural
principle belonging to man, if it was separated from a spiritual principle, would be separated from 
all cause of existence, thus also from every principle of life. Nevertheless this is no hindrance to 
man's being healed naturally, for the Divine Providence concurs with such means of healing. That 
the case is thus, has been given to know by much experience, and this so frequently and of so long 
continuance, as not to leave a doubt remaining; for evil spirits from such places have been often 
and for a long time applied to me, and according to their presence they induced pains, and also 
diseases; it was shown me where they were, and what was their quality, and it was also told me 
whence they were. AC 5713.

There were three reasons why faith in the LORD healed the sick in the gospel, the first was, their 
acknowledging his Divine Omnipotence, and that he was GOD: the second was, because faith is 
acknowledgement and from acknowledgement contemplation, and all contemplation from 
acknowledgement causes another to be present, which is a common thing in the spiritual world, in 
this case, therefore, contemplation from the acknowledgement of the LORD'S Omnipotence, which 
was the acknowledgement from which they were first to view the LORD, when a new church should 
be established by him; hence it may appear, what is there understood by faith: the third reason was, 
that all the diseases which the LORD healed, represented and thence signified spiritual diseases, to 
which natural diseases correspond, and spiritual diseases cannot be healed except by the LORD, and 
indeed by looking to his Divine Omnipotence, and by repentance of the life, wherefore also he 
sometimes said, your sins are remitted you, go and sin no more; this faith also was represented and 
signified by their miraculous faith: but the faith whereby spiritual diseases are healed by the LORD, 
can only be given by truths from the Word, and by a life according to them, the truths themselves 
and the life according to them constituting the quality of the faith. AE 815.

78

Verse 14. Sin no more, lest a worse thing come upon you. By the worse thing is here meant 
profanation, the worst kind of which consists in first acknowledging divine truths, and living 
according to them, and afterwards receding from and denying them, in which case holy things are 
mixed with profane in such a manner that they cannot be separated, and yet they must be separated,
before the spirit can be either in heaven or in hell; and inasmuch as this cannot be effected, every 
intellectual and voluntary human principle is destroyed, and they who are guilty of this kind of 
profanation become no longer men. This kind of profanation is understood by these words in John, 
Sin no more, lest a worse thing come to you. DP 231; see also NJHD 172.

Verses 19 to 27. The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father do, &c. From the 
words of this and the following verses, three arcana appear bright to those who are in the internal 
sense, first, that the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD existed from the Divine [principle] 
itself; secondly, that the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD was not only conceived, but also 
born of JEHOVAH, hence the LORD as to the Divine Human [principle] is called the Son of GOD and 
the Only-begotten; thirdly, that the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD is the name of JEHOVAH, 
that is, his quality. AC 2628.

The divine truth, which proceeds from the LORD, does nothing from itself, but from the divine 
good, which is the Divine [principle] itself, for divine good is the esse, but the divine truth is the 
existere thence derived, wherefore the esse must be in the existere, that the latter may be something,
and hence something may be done. The LORD, when he was in the world, was divine truth, and in 
this case the divine good in him was the FATHER; but when he was glorified, then he was made 
divine good even as to the Human [principle;] the divine truth which then proceeded from him, is 
called the Comforter, or Spirit of truth. He who is acquainted with these two arcana, if he be in 
illustration from the LORD, when he reads the Word, may be able to comprehend several things, 
which the LORD himself spoke concerning the FATHER and concerning himself, which otherwise 
would be incomprehensible mysteries, as what is said in John, "The Son cannot do any thing of 
himself, unless he sees the FATHER do it; for whatever things he does, these also in like manner does
the Son: as the FATHER has life in himself, so has he given to the Son to have life in himself," verses
19 to 26. AC 8724; see also AC 2798.

Verse 21. As the Father raises up the dead, and vivify, even so the Son vivify whom he will. By 
vivification and vivifying is signified spiritual life, or new life by regeneration, as may appear from 
this consideration alone, that the spirituality of the Word cannot be any thing else; there is natural 
life and there is spiritual life; natural life is understood in the sense of the letter, but spiritual life in 
the internal sense, and likewise in many passages, by vivifying and by life, spiritual life itself is 
understood in the sense of the letter, as in John, As the Father raises up the dead, and makes alive, 
so likewise the Son makes alive whomsoever he wills. AC 5890.

By raising up the dead and vivifying, is not only understood resurrection into life by natural death, 
but also by spiritual death; resurrection into life is effected by reformation and regeneration, and 
these by the removal and separation of evils which damn man, which is spiritual death. AE 899.

Verse 22. For the Father judges no man, but has committed all judgement to the Son. It is manifest 
from the Word that judgement appertains to the Divine Human [principle] and the holy proceeding 
of the LORD; that it appertains to the Divine Human [principle] is evident from John, vs 22, where 
by the Son is meant the Divine Human [principle.] AC 2320.

79

By judging is signified arrangement, the reason is, because divine truth does not judge any one, but 
flows in and arranges that it may be received; from reception afterwards is effected judgement 
according to the laws of order; this is understood by the LORD'S judgement, Matt 25:31 to the end; 
John 5:22, 26, 27, 30; 9:39; that this is understood, is manifest from the LORD'S words, where he 
says that he judges no one, John 3:17-21. AC 8685.

That divine good does not judge any one, but divine truth, is understood by these words of the 
LORD, The Father does not judge any one, but has given judgement to the Son, where by the Father
is meant divine good, and by the Son divine truth. Nevertheless it is to be understood, that the LORD
does not judge any one by divine truth, but divine truth considered in itself judges the man who 
does not receive, but rejects it, as may be manifest from these words of the LORD, "JESUS said, If 
any one hear my words, yet believes not, I judge him not, for I came not to judge the world, but to 
save the world; he who despises me, and receives not my words, has one who judges him; the word 
which I have spoken shall judge him in the last day," John 12:47, 48; also John 3:17.

He who is unacquainted with the spiritual sense of the Word, and at the same time with the genuine 
truths of the church, may believe that when the last judgement shall come, the LORD will sit on a 
throne, and around him other judges also upon thrones, but he who is acquainted with the spiritual 
sense of the Word, and at the same with the genuine truths of the church, knows that the LORD will 
not then sit on a throne, nor other judges around him, yea, that the LORD will not judge any one to 
hell, but will cause that the Word shall judge every one whilst he moderates that all things may be 
done according to justice; the LORD indeed says, that "The FATHER does not judge any one, but has 
given all judgement to the Son, and has given him power to do judgement, because he is the Son of 
Man," John 5:22, 27. But he says in another place, "I came not to judge the world, but to save the 
world; the Word which I have spoken it shall judge him in the last day," John 12:47, 48; these two 
passages are in agreement, when it is known that the Son of Man is the LORD as to the Word; 
wherefore the Word is about to judge, whilst the LORD moderates. AR 233.

Verse 24. He that hears my word, and believes on him that sent me, has everlasting life, and shall 
not come into judgement, but is passed from death to life. Heaven is here called eternal life, in other
passages simply life, by reason that the LORD is life itself, and whoever receives his life, is in 
heaven. AC 2658. By death in the above passage is meant spiritual death, or damnation. AC 6119. 
By hearing the word of the Lord, and believing on him who sent him, are meant similar things as 
above, for the LORD by the FATHER understood the divine [principle] which was in himself by 
conception, thus himself; not to come into judgement, signifies not to be damned; to pass from 
death into life, signifies resurrection and life in heaven; from death not only signifies from natural 
death into eternal life, thus resurrection, but also from spiritual death, which is damnation, into life 
eternal, thus also resurrection, for in the Word, there is a natural sense, and a spiritual sense. AE 
899.

Verse 25. The dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they who hear shall live. The dead 
denote those, who from ignorance of the truth of faith have not as yet attained spiritual life; to hear 
the voice of the Son of God denotes to be instructed in the truths of faith, and to obey them; to live 
denotes to be gifted with spiritual life by those truths. AC 9311.

Voice in this passage is the divine truth of the LORD from his Word. AR 37.

To hear the voice of the Son of God denotes to have faith in the words of the LORD, and to will 
them; they who have will-faith receive life, wherefore it is said, they who hear shall live. AC 3869.

80

By the dead are here signified those who are in evils and thence in falses, but are liberated from 
them by reformation; that they are to rise again, is understood by the above words; for in such case 
they are no longer dead, but alive, being such as hear the voice of the Son of God, thus who live 
according to his precepts. AE 899.

Verse 26. As the Father has life in himself, so has he given to the Son to have life in himself. The 
internal of the LORD was JEHOVAH himself, inasmuch as he was conceived of JEHOVAH, who cannot 
be divided and become another's, as of a son who is conceived of a man father; for the Divine 
[Being or principle] is not divisible as the human, but is one and the same, and remains; with this 
internal the LORD united the human essence: and because the internal of the LORD was JEHOVAH, it 
was not a form recipient of life, as the internal of man, but the life itself; his human essence 
likewise by unification in like manner was made the life, wherefore the LORD so often said that he 
is the life, as in John 5:26; 1:4; 6:33, 35, 48. So far therefore as the LORD was in the human 
[principle] which he received hereditarily from the mother, so far he appeared distinct from 
JEHOVAH, and adored JEHOVAH, as another from himself; but so far as he put off this human 
[principle] so far the LORD was not distinct from JEHOVAH, but one with him; the former state was 
the state of the LORD'S humiliation, but the latter the state of his glorification. AC 1999. See also 
AC 1607, 2658.

By the above words is meant, that as the Divine [principle] itself, which was from eternity, lives in 
itself, so likewise the human [principle] which it assumed in time, lives in itself: life in itself is the 
real and only life, from which all angels and men live. Human reason can see this from the light 
which proceeds from the sun of the natural world, that this light is not creatable, but that forms 
receiving it are created, for the eyes are its recipient forms, and the light flowing in from the sun 
causes them to see; the case is similar with life, which is the light proceeding from the sun of the 
spiritual world, that this is not creatable, but that it flows in continually, and as it illuminates, it also
vivifies the understanding of man. Let every one therefore take heed to himself, how he persuades 
himself to believe that he lives from himself, also that he is wise, believes, loves, perceives truth, 
and wills and does good from himself; for in proportion as any one so persuades himself, in the 
same proportion he casts his mind down from heaven to earth, and from spiritual becomes natural, 
sensual, and corporeal, for he closes up the superior regions of his mind. TCR 40. See also TCR 
718.

Verses 28, 29. All that are in the graves shall hear his voice, &c. It is not meant by these words that
the graves shall be opened, and all shall come forth in the day of the last judgement, but by the 
graves which shall be opened, are understood the places in the lower earth, where they are reserved 
and kept by the LORD, who have heretofore lived the life of charity, and have acknowledged the 
Divine [principle] of the LORD, and on the day of the last judgement, and after it, were elevated into
heaven. These places are signified by graves in the spiritual sense; that it is not meant that graves in
the earth shall be opened, and that the dead shall come forth from them in the day of the last 
judgement, is evident from this consideration, that all men immediately after death come into the 
spiritual world, and there live in a human form in like manner as in this world, thus that every one 
comes into resurrection immediately after death, they who have done good into the resurrection of 
life, and they who have done evil into the resurrection of judgement. AE 899.

By the resurrection of the dead is not only meant the resurrection of those who die naturally, for 
these rise again immediately after death, but also of those who [die] spiritually, and have been 
vivified by the LORD. AE 899.

81

Salvation or damnation is here signified by judgement. AC 9857.

That man does not rise again as to his natural body, but as to his spiritual body, is abundantly 
proved in the work on HEAVEN AND HELL, 432—520.

That graves or sepulchres signify things unclean, consequently also things infernal, by reason of the
carcases and bones which are therein, appears from various passages in the Word: as in Isaiah, "A 
people who provoke me to anger before my faces continually, who burn incense upon bricks, who 
sit in the sepulchres, and pass the night in waste places, who eat the flesh of swine," Is 65:3, 4. To 
provoke JEHOVAH to anger before his faces, signifies to sin against the truths and goods of the 
Word, and to recede from the worship there commanded, the faces of JEHOVAH are the things 
revealed in the Word; to burn incense upon bricks, signifies worship from falses of doctrine, bricks 
denoting falses of doctrine, and to burn incense denoting worship from them; to sit in the 
sepulchres, signifies to be in filthy loves; to pass the night in waste places, signifies to remain and 
live in falses, waste places denoting where there are no truths; to eat the flesh of swine, signifies to 
appropriate to themselves infernal evils: so in Moses, "Whosoever shall touch upon the surface of 
the field one slain with the sword or dead, or the bone of a man, or a sepulchre, he shall be unclean 
seven days, and afterwards he shall be purified," Numb 19:16, 18; by touching, in the Word, is 
signified to communicate; wherefore lest falses and evils should be communicated, and thus 
appropriated, it was prohibited to touch things unclean, as in this case the slain by the sword, the 
dead, the bone of a man, and a sepulchre; because by the slain with the sword are signified those 
who perish by falses, and are thence condemned to hell; and by the dead are signified those who 
perish by evils; by the bone of a man is signified infernal falses, and by sepulchre, infernal evil; 
again in Ezekiel, "Wail over the multitude of Egypt, and make her go down with them that go down
into the pit: they shall fall by the sword in the midst of the slain; there is Ashur and his whole 
congregation, his sepulchres are about him, all the slain who fell by the sword to whom sepulchres 
were given in the sides of the pit, and his congregation is about his sepulchre; Elam and all his 
multitude is about his sepulchre, all the uncircumcised, slain with the sword," Ez 32:18, 20, 22, 23, 
24; by the multitude of Egypt are signified scientifics of the natural man, which are dead, because 
they descend not and are not formed as effects, conclusions, and confirmations, from the truths of 
the spiritual man; by Ashur are signified ratiocinations from such scientifics; wherefore by, wail 
over the multitude of Egypt, and make her go down with them that go down into the pit, is signified
grief on account of the damnation of those who are therein principled, the pit denoting the hell 
where such dead scientifics prevail, that is, scientifics separate from truths, because applied to 
confirm falses of doctrine and evils of life; by the slain with the sword, here as above, are signified 
those who are condemned to hell by falses; there is Ashur and his whole congregation, signifies 
ratiocinations from those falses; by the sepulchres which are about Ashur and in the sides of the pit,
where Elam is, and all the uncircumcised slain with the sword, are signified the hells where those 
falses are, i.e. those who are in such falses. It is to be observed, that falses and evils of every kind 
correspond to whatever is unclean and hideous in the natural world, and the more dire falses and 
evils to stinking cadaverous and also to excrementitious substances, and those of a milder kind to 
marshy places; hence it is that the dwellings of those in the hells who are in such falses and evils, 
appear like pits and sepulchres; and if you are disposed to believe it, such evil genii and spirits also 
dwell in the sepulchres, privies, and marshes which are in our world, although they are ignorant of 
it; the reason is, because they correspond, and things which correspond conjoin. The same may be 
concluded also from this consideration, that nothing is more delightful than cadaverous stenches to 
those who have been assassins and poisoners, likewise to those who perceived delight in violating 
women; and there is also nothing more delightful than excrementitious stenches to those who have 
been eaten up with the love of ruling imperiously, likewise to those who took delight in adulteries 

82

and not in marriages; and there is nothing more delightful than a marshy and likewise a urinous 
stench to those who have confirmed themselves in falses, and extinguished in themselves the 
affection of truth: hence it is that the hells in which they are, appear according to the correspondent 
delights, some as pits, and some as sepulchres. From these considerations it may also appear 
whence it was, "That they who were obsessed by demons were in the sepulchres and came out 
thence," Matt 8:28, and following verses; Mark 5:2, 3, 5; Luke 8:27: namely because they who 
obsessed, whilst they lived in the world were in falses from evil, or in knowledges frosi the Word 
which they made dead by applying them to confirm evils, and likewise to destroy the genuine truth 
of the church, especially the truths concerning the LORD, concerning the Word, and concerning a 
life after death, which dead knowledges in the Word are called traditions; hence it was that those 
who were obsessed by such after they had become demons, were in the sepulchres, and the demons 
themselves were afterwards cast out into the swine, who precipitated themselves into the sea, the 
reason whereof was, because they had lived in the world in sordid avarice, which swine correspond 
to and thence signify; the reason why they precipitated themselves into the sea, was, because the 
sea there signified hell. AE 659.

Concerning Judgement, and the Last Judgement, how it is to be understood, see chap. 3:17, 19, 
Exposition.

Verse 37. You have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. See Extracts at chap. 
1:18.

Verse 39. Search the Scriptures, &c. The necessity of searching the Scriptures may appear from 
considering the conjunction of the truths of the church with its scientifics, and the manner in which 
it is effected; for a principle is not to be drawn from scientifics, so that the truths of faith may by 
them be entered into, since the scientifics belonging to man are derived from things sensual, thus 
from the world, whence result innumerable fallacies. But a principle is to be derived from the truths
of faith, namely by this method; first the doctrinals of the church are to be learned, and afterwards 
exploration is to be made from the Word whether they be true, since they are not true, because the 
rulers of the church have pronounced them so, and their followers confirm them to be so, for thus 
the doctrinals of all churches and of all religions would be pronounced true merely on the authority 
of the soil in which they are propagated, and of their birth-place; thus not only the doctrinals of the 
papists, and also of the Quakers, would be true, but also of the Jews, and likewise of the 
Mahometans, because their leaders have pronounced them so, and their followers confirm the same;
from which considerations it is evident, that the Word ought to be searched, and examination to be 
made from the Word whether the above doctrinals be true; when this is done from the affection of 
truth, then man is enlightened by the LORD, so as to apperceive, without knowing whence, what is 
true, and he is confirmed therein according to the good in which he is principled. Afterwards when 
he is confirmed, and thus in an affirmative principle from the Word that they are the truths of faith, 
it is then allowable for him to confirm them by all the scientifics he possesses, of whatever name 
and nature, for then, inasmuch as a principle of affirmation reigns universally, he accepts the 
scientifics which are in agreement, and rejects those which, by reason of the fallacies they contain, 
disagree. AC 6047. Verse 40. And you will not come to me, that you might have life. It is not 
possible that more than one single fountain of life can exist, whence the life of all things is derived; 
and it is not possible that any life can exist, which is truly life, except by faith in the LORD, who is 
real essential life itself; nor can faith exist in which is life, except from him, consequently except he
be in it: wherefore in the Word the LORD alone is called living, and is named the living Jehovah, 
Jeremiah 5:2, 12:16, 16:14, 15, 23:7; Exekiel 5:11; Living for ever, Dan 4:24; Rev 4:10, vs 14 10:6; 
A fountain of life, Psalm 36:9; A fountain of living waters, Jeremiah 17:13. Wherefore heaven, 

83

which lives by or from him, is called the land of the living, Isaiah 37:11, 57:8; Ezekiel 26:20, 32:23,
24, 25, 26, 27, 32; Psalm 27:13, 142:5. And they are called living, who are in faith in the LORD, as 
in David, "Who holds our soul amongst the living" Psalm 66:9; and they who are in faith are said to
be in the book of lives, Psalm 69:28, and in the book of life, Rev 13:8, 20:15; wherefore also they 
are said to be made alive who receive faith in him, Hosea 6:2; Psalm 85:6. On the contrary, they 
who are not in faith are called dead, as in Isaiah, "The dead shall not live; the deceased shall not 
rise, because you have visited and destroyed them," Is 26:14; where the dead signify those who are 
puffed up with self-love; and to rise signifies to enter into life, they are also said to be thrust 
through, [confossi] Ezekiel 22:23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31; and hell is called death, Isaiah 25:8, 
28:15; they are also called dead by the LORD, Matt 4:16; John 5:25, 8:21, 24, 51, 52. AC 290.

The LORD alone is love itself, because he is life itself, and angels and men are recipients of life from
the LORD. The LORD, who is the GOD of the universe, is uncreate and infinite, whereas man and 
angel is created and finite; and because the LORD is uncreate and infinite, he is being [esse] itself, 
which is called JEHOVAH, and he is life itself or life in himself. From the uncreate, infinite esse itself
and life itself, no being can be immediately created, because the Divine is one and not divisible, but
from created and finite substances, so formed that the Divine may be in them, beings may be 
created. Inasmuch as men and angels are such beings, they are recipients of life: wherefore if any 
man suffers himself so far to be misled, as to think that he is not a recipient of life, but life itself, he 
cannot be withheld from thinking that he is a GOD. That man feels as if he were life itself, and 
thence believes that he is, is grounded in fallacy, for in the instrumental cause the principal cause is 
no otherwise perceived than as one with it. That the LORD is life in himself, he himself teaches in 
John, "As the FATHER has life in himself, so has he given to the SON to have life in himself," John 
5:26; and, "that he is the life," John 11:25, 14:6. Now inasmuch as life and love are one, as appears 
from what has been said above, HH 1, 2, it follows that the LORD, because he is life itself, is love 
itself.

But in order that this matter may be rightly apprehended, it is necessary to be known, that the LORD,
inasmuch as he is love in its very essence, that is, Divine love, appears before the angels in heaven 
as a sun, and that from that sun proceed heat and light, and that the heat thence proceeding, in its 
essence, is love, and the light thence proceeding, in its essence, is wisdom; and that the angels, in 
proportion as they are recipients of that spiritual heat and spiritual light, are loves and wisdoms, not
loves and wisdoms from themselves, hut from the LORD. This spiritual heat and spiritual light not 
only descend by influx into angels and affect them, but descend also by influx into men and affect 
them, altogether in proportion as they become recipients, and they become recipients according to 
their love of the LORD, and their love towards their neighbour. This sun itself, or Divine love, 
cannot by its heat and light create any one immediately from itself, for in that case he would be 
love in its essence, which is the LORD himself, but it can create beings from substances and 
materials so formed, as to be capable of receiving its heat itself and light itself, comparatively as the
sun of this world cannot, by its heat and light, immediately produce germinations in the earth, but it
can produce them from earthly materials, in which it may be present by its heat and light, and give 
vegetation. That the Divine love of the LORD appears as a sun in the spiritual world, and that 
therefrom proceed spiritual heat and spiritual light, from whence the angels have their love and 
wisdom, may be seen in the work concerning "HEAVEN AND HELL," HH 116 to 140.

Since therefore man is not life, but a recipient of life, it follows that the conception of a man from 
his father is not a conception of life, but only a conception of the first and purest form capable of 
receiving of life, to which, as a stamen or beginning, successively accede, in the womb, substances 
and matters in forms adapted to the reception of life in their order and degree. DLW 4—6.

84

Verse 46. For Moses wrote of me. In the Word, both the prophetical and historical, every thing that 
is written was written concerning the LORD; hence the Word is divine. In the rituals of the Israelitish
church, as in the burnt-offerings and sacrifices, also in the sabbaths and festivals, and in the 
priesthood of Aaron and the Levites, many arcana of the glorification of the LORD are contained; in 
like manner in the other things written by Moses, which are called laws, judgements, and statutes. 
This also is meant by the LORD'S words to his disciples, that he must fulfill all things which were 
written in the law of Moses concerning him, Luke 24:45; likewise by his words to the Jews, that 
Moses wrote of him. Doc. of the Lord, 14. See also 8, 9, of the same work.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 2. But there is in Jerusalem at the sheep [market or gate] a pool, &c. The original term here rendered 
sheep [market or gate] is probatike, which is an adjective in the feminine gender, derived from the 
substantive probaton, which signifies sheep or cattle, and therefore denotes something relating to sheep or 
cattle, but whether that something be market or gate, is doubtful.

Verse 29. They who have done good things to the resurrection of life, but they who have done evil things to 
the resurrection of judgement. It is remarkable that doers, or they who have done, in the above passage, are 
expressed in the original by two different terms, for when the doers of good are spoken of, the term 
poiesantes is used, but when the doers of evil are spoken of, the term praxantes is used, whence it may be 
inferred, that the term poieo, from which poiesantes is derived, has a more interior signification than the 
term prasso, from which praxantes is derived.

Verse 35. He was a burning and shining lamp, &c. In the common version of the New Testament, what is 
here called lamp is rendered light, but the original Greek is luxnos, which properly means a lamp, and is 
distinguished from phos or light, as a lamp is distinguished from the light which it receives and gives. That a
lamp and light are distinct things, and consequently denote distinct principles, and therefore ought not to be 
confounded, is plain from what is written in the Psalms, Your WORD is a LAMP to my feet, and a LIGHT to my 
path, Psalms 119:105, where a lamp to my feet denotes divine truth in the natural principle, and a light to my
path denotes the faith and intelligence thence derived. This lamp is here called burning and shining to denote
the heavenly marriage of good and truth from which it was formed, burning having relation to divine good, 
and shining to divine truth.

Verse 35, latter part. And you were willing to be glad for an hour in his light. In the common version of the 
New Testament, these words are rendered thus, And you were willing for a season to rejoice in his light, but 
it is to be noted, that what is here called for a season, is expressed in the original by pros oran, which is 
literally for an hour; and what is called to rejoice, is expressed in the original by agalliasthenai, which 
signifies to exult, or to be glad, and is accordingly rendered by Swedenborg to exult. To the careless reader it
may possibly seem a matter of little importance whether the term be rendered by rejoicing, or by being glad,
but the spiritual and intelligent reader will immediately see the necessity of distinguishing between these 
terms, because he will see that the distinction is preserved in the Scriptures throughout, in order to 
discriminate between the gratification imparted to the mind by the principle of good in the will, and by the 
principle of truth in the understanding, and thus to mark the heavenly marriage. Hence so frequent mention 
is made of joy and gladness, and hence in the Revelation it is said, Let us rejoice and be glad, [chairomen 
agalliometha] for the marriage of the Lamb is come, &c. 19:7, the verb chairo having respect to the 
gratification derived from the good of love in the will, whilst the verb agallio or agalliomai has respect to 
the gratification derived from the truth of wisdom in the understanding. Yet in the common version of the 
New Testament the verb chairo is rendered to be glad, and the verb agallio to rejoice, because probably the 
translators were either not aware of the distinct meaning of the two terms, or thought it of no importance to 
be attended to.

Verse 41. I receive not glory from men. Verse 44. How can you believe, which receive glory one of another, 
and seek not the glory which is from God alone? In the common version of the New Testament, the term 

85

here rendered glory is called honour, as if there was no distinction between the two terms, when yet a 
distinction is plainly made in the Revelations, where it is written, When those beasts give glory and honour, 
4:9; and again at verse 11, You are worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour, &c. in which passages the 
original Greek, here rendered glory and honour, is doxian k timen, the former term being more expressive of 
the divine truth, and the latter more expressive of the divine good. It is therefore of importance that the 
distinct spiritual meaning of the two terms should be attended to, and consequently that the terms themselves
should never be confounded.

86

John Chapter 6

Chapter 6

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. AFTER these things JESUS 

departed beyond the sea of Galilee 
of Tiberias.

2. And much multitude followed him,
because they saw his miracles 
[signs] which he did upon those 
who were diseased.

3. And JESUS went up into the 

mountain, and there sat with his 
disciples.

4. But the passover, the feast of the 

Jews, was near.

5.

JESUS then lifting up his eyes, and 
seeing that much multitude came to
him, says to Philip, Whence shall 
we buy bread, that these may eat?
6. But this he said to prove him, for 

he himself knew what he was about
to do.

7. Philip answered him, Two hundred 

pennyworth of bread is not 
sufficient for them, that every one 
of them may take a little.

8. One of his disciples, Andrew, 

Simon Peter's brother, says to him,

9. There is a boy here who has five 

barley-loaves and two small fishes; 
but what are they amongst so 
many?

THAT the LORD applies himself to those who are in 
the ultimates of the church amongst the Gentiles, and
is followed by many who are under the influence of a
miraculous faith, vs 1, 2.

On which occasion he elevates himself to union with
his divine good, to which he conjoins the truths of 
the church, and thus approaches to his final 
glorification, vs 3, 4.

In this state he tries the faith of those of the church 
who are in intelligence, by exciting doubt respecting 
the implantation of good in truths, when yet he knew
that it could only be done from himself, vs 5, 6, 7.

This doubt extends also to those who are principled 
in the good of faith, being further excited from a 
sense of the small portion of innocence and of living 
scientific truth which remained in the church, vs 8, 9.

10. But JESUS said, Make the men to sit
down. Now there was much grass 
in the place. So the men sat down, 
in number about five thousand.

Wherefore to remove this doubt, the LORD requires, 
that the truths of the church should be admitted into 
the will, or love, so as to affect it, and thus to rule 
over scientific truths, vs 10.

87

11. And JESUS took the loaves, and 

having given thanks, he distributed 
to the disciples, and the disciples to
them that were set down; and in 
like manner of the fishes as much 
as they would.

12. But when they were filled, he says 
to his disciples, Gather together the
fragments that remain over and 
above, that nothing may be lost.

13. Therefore they gathered [them] 

together, and filled twelve baskets, 
with the fragments of the five 
barley-loaves, which remained over
and above to them that had eaten.

14. Then the men seeing the miracle 

[sign] which JESUS did, said, This is
truly the prophet that should come 
into the world.

15. JESUS then, knowing that they were
about to come, and take him by 
force, that they might make him a 
king, retired again into the 
mountain himself alone.

16. And when it was evening, his 
disciples went down to the sea;

17. And entering into a ship, they went 
beyond the sea to Capernaum. And 
it was now dark, and JESUS was not
come to them.

18. And the sea arose, by reason of a 

great wind that blew.

19. So when they had rowed about 

twenty or thirty furlongs, they see 
JESUS walking on the sea, and 
drawing near to the ship; and they 
were afraid.

20. But he says to them, I am, be not 

afraid.

And when this was accomplished, he imparts the 
good of his own love to the good of those of the 
church who are principled in truth, and through them
to those who are principled in good, with as much of 
living scientific truth as could be received, vs 11.

And this in all the fullness of instruction and 
benediction, vs 12, 13.

Thus proving himself to be that divine doctrine, 
which, it had been predicted, was to be made 
manifest in the flesh, vs 14.

But perceiving the state of the church to be such, that
doctrine was in danger of being exalted above the 
life of doctrine, he again elevates himself into the 
good of his divine love, vs 15. 

On which occasion, they who are principled in the 
truths of the church, being without illustration, 
consult scientifics and knowledges, and even the 
things of sense, thus immersing themselves in false 
principles, separate from divine good and truth, vs 
16, 17.

Under the influence of which false principles, they 
are brought into a state of disturbance and 
temptation, in which state their understandings are 
opened to the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, so as to 
perceive him controlling the disturbance both in the 
scientifics and knowledges, and begetting holy 
adoration, vs 18, 19.

Convincing them thus that he is JEHOVAH, the divine 
source of all peace and security, vs 20.

88

21. Then they were willing to receive 
him into the ship; and immediately 
the ship was at the land, to which 
they were going.

Therefore they supplicate, that their knowledges may
be always under his divine presence and influence, in
consequence of which supplication they attain the 
life of knowledge, vs 21.

22. On the morrow, the multitude 

which stood beyond the sea, seeing 
that there was no other boat there, 
except the one into which his 
disciples were entered, and that 
JESUS went not with his disciples 
into the boat, but his disciples 
departed alone;

23. But there carne other boats from 
Tiberias, near to the place where 
they did eat bread, when the LORD 
had given thanks:

24. When the multitude therefore saw 
that JESUS was not there, neither his
disciples, they also took shipping, 
and came to Capernaum, seeking 
JESUS.

25. And finding him beyond the sea, 

they said to him, Rabbi, when came
you here?

26. JESUS answered them, and said, 

Verily, verily, I say to you, you seek
me, not because you saw the 
miracles, [signs] but because you 
did eat of the loaves, and were 
filled.

27. Labour not for the meat which 

perishes, but for the meat which 
endures to eternal life, which the 
Son of Man shall give to you; for 
him has the FATHER sealed, the 
GOD.

That they, who are principled in the ultimates of 
scientific and sensual truth, perceiving their want of 
the knowledge of good and truth, and that these 
knowledges are in the possession of the men of the 
church, though separated from their divine source; 
and perceiving further that the knowledges of what is
good and true are in themselves in connection with 
the divine instruction and benediction; consult those 
knowledges, and seek conjunction with the LORD in 
his DIVINE HUMANITY, and make enquiry about the 
establishment of the church, vs 22, 23, 24, 25.

On which occasion they are led to explore the 
motives by which they are influenced, and whether 
those motives are grounded in external or internal 
considerations, vs 26.

They are exhorted also to regard the good things of 
heavenly love and faith as infinitely superior to all 
other goods, and to regard them also in their 
connection with the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, from 
whom alone they are derived, vs 27.

28. Then said they to him, What shall 

we do that we may work the works 
of GOD?

Thus they are led to enquire further concerning the 
life of heavenly love and faith, and how it is to be 
attained, vs 28.

29. JESUS answered, and said to them, 
This is the work of GOD, that you 
believe on him whom he has sent.

And are instructed that the life of love and faith 
results from the acknowledgement in heart and life 
of the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 29.

89

30. They said therefore to him, What 
sign do you then, that we may see 
and believe you, what work you?

Still they want further testification of this truth, and 
that it should be confirmed by some representative 
sign, like that of manna in the wilderness, vs 30, 31.

31. Our fathers did eat manna in the 
wilderness, as, it is written, He 
gave them bread from heaven to 
eat.

32. Then JESUS said to them, Verily, 

verily, I say Unto you, Moses gave 
you not the bread from heaven, but 
my FATHER gives you the true bread
from heaven.

33. For the bread of GOD is he who 
comes down from heaven, and 
gives life to the world.

34. Then said they to him, LORD, ever 

more give us this bread.

35. But JESUS said to them, I am the 

bread of life; he that comes to me 
shall never hunger, and he that 
believes in me shall never thirst.

36. But I said to you, that you also 

have seen me, and do not believe.

37. All that the FATHER gives me shall 
come to me, and him that comes to 
me I will not cast out.

38. For I came down from heaven, not 
to do mine own will, but the will of
him that sent me.

39. But this is the will of the FATHER 
that sent me, that of all which he 
has given me, I should lose 
nothing, but should raise it up in 
the last day.

40. But this is the will of him that sent 
me, that every one who sees the 
Son, and believes in him, should 
have eternal life, and I will raise 
him up at the last day.

Therefore they are further instructed, that the manna 
was merely representative of the LORD'S DIVINE 
HUMANITY, thus of the divine love, and of reciprocal 
love on the part of man, vs 32, 33.

Which instruction operates to produce that love, and 
therefore they are further taught that the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY is the only source of all celestial 
good and truth, and that they, who receive this good, 
will want no other good, and they, who receive this 
truth, will have a sufficiency of all truth, vs 34, 35.

Still there are some, who know the truth of faith, and
do not receive it, inasmuch as they alone receive, 
who are principled in heavenly good, by virtue of 
which good they have eternal conjunction of life 
with the LORD, vs 36, 37.

For this was the great end of the LORD'S assuming 
humanity, that he might fulfill the purpose of his 
divine love, which purpose is, that all who believe in 
that humanity from a right faith and love, shall have 
eternal life, vs 38, 39, 40.

90

But this doctrine is opposed by those of the perverted
church, who conceive the Humanity of the LORD to 
be like that of other men, and not a DIVINE 
HUMANITY, vs 41, 42.

41. The Jews then murmured at him, 
because he said, I am the bread 
which came down from heaven.

42. And they said, Is not this JESUS the 
son of Joseph, whose father and 
mother we know? How is it then 
that he says, I came down from 
heaven?

43. Then JESUS answered, and said to 

them, Murmur not among 
yourselves:

The reason of which is, because they are not 
principled in that heavenly good which conducts to 
heaven, vs 43, 44.

44. No one can come to me, except the 
FATHER which sent me draw him; 
and I will raise him up at the last 
day.

45. It is written in the prophets, And 
they shall be all taught of GOD. 
Every one therefore who has heard 
of the FATHER, and learned, comes 
to me.

46. Not that any one has seen the 

FATHER, except he who is from 
GOD; he has seen the FATHER.

47. Verily, verily, I say to you, he that 
believes on me has eternal life.

48. I am the bread of life.

49. Your fathers did eat manna in the 

wilderness, and are dead.

50. This is the bread which comes 

down from heaven, that any one 
may eat thereof and not die.

51. I am the living bread, which came 
down from heaven; if any one eat 
of this bread, he shall live for ever; 
and the bread which I will give is 
my flesh, which I will give for the 
life of the world.

For thus the eternal truth teaches, that it has access to
all human minds, and is received by those who are 
principled in heavenly good, and obedient to it, vs 
45.

Nevertheless none can acknowledge divine good 
except by divine truth, and therefore no one can have
celestial good, unless he acknowledges the LORD, vs 
46.

For to acknowledge the LORD is to possess the life of
heaven, since he is the very essence of that life, vs 
47, 48.

Therefore they, who receive only natural 
nourishment from the Word, perish in their evils, 
whilst they, who receive spiritual nourishment, 
which is that of the good of heavenly love, have 
eternal conjunction of life with the LORD, vs 49, 50.

For these latter are made partakers of the Divine 
Celestial principle, or the divine good, 
communicated from the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, 
vs 51.

91

52. The Jews therefore strove among 
themselves, saying, how can this 
[man] give us flesh to eat?

53. Then JESUS said to them, Verily, 

verily, I say to you, except you eat 
the flesh of the Son of Man, and 
drink his blood, you have no life in 
you.

54. He that eats my flesh, and drinks 
my blood, has eternal life, and I 
will raise him up at the last day.

55. For my flesh is truly meat, and my 

blood is truly drink.

56. He that eats [trogon] my flesh, and 
drinks my blood, abides in me, and 
I in him.

57. As the living FATHER has sent me, 

and I live by the FATHER, so he that 
eats [trogon] me, even he shall live 
by me.

58. This is the bread that came down 
from heaven, not as your fathers 
did eat manna, and are dead: he 
that eats of this bread, shall live for 
ever.

59. These things said he in the 

synagogue, teaching in Capernaum.

60. Many therefore of his disciples, 

when they had heard, said, This is a
hard word; who can hear it?

61. But JESUS knowing in himself that 
his disciples murmured at it, said to
them, This offends you.

62. If then you shall see the Son of 
man ascend up where he was 
before;

63. It is the Spirit that quickens, the 
flesh profits nothing; the words 
which I speak to you are spirit, and 
are life.

Which appears incredible to those who are of the 
perverted church, and who are therefore taught, that 
the Divine Celestial principle and the Divine 
Spiritual, which is from the DIVINE HUMANITY of the 
LORD, is the all of life, and that whoever does not 
appropriate to himself this principle, has no living 
principle in him, but whoever appropriates it, has in 
him an eternal living principle, vs 52, 53, 54.

Because the Divine Celestial principle is the only 
nourishment of celestial life, and the Divine Spiritual
principle the only nourishment of spiritual life, and 
therefore whoever partakes of those principles, has 
conjunction of life with the LORD, vs 55, 56.

And thus derives life from the LORD, in like manner 
as he, as to his Humanity, derived life continually 
from the divine good in himself, vs 57.

In which case spiritual and living nourishment is 
received from the Word, and not merely natural and 
dead nourishment, vs 58.

That this doctrine is not apprehended by those, who 
are under the influence of worldly and sensual love, 
vs 59, 60.

Who are therefore instructed, that they cannot 
apprehend it, unless they apprehend how the LORD'S 
Human [principle] was finally united to the Divine, 
and how the divine operation proceeding from that 
union is the source of all spiritual life, whilst what 
proceeds from the selfhood of man is without life; 
thus how the Word is the complex of divine wisdom 
and divine love, vs 61, 62, 63.

92

64. But there are some of you who 

believe not; for JESUS knew from 
the beginning who they are that 
believe not, and who it is that 
should betray him.

65. And he said, On this account said I 
to you, that no one can come to me,
except it be given him of my 
FATHER.

66. From this [time] many of his 

disciples went back, and walked no
more with him.

67. Then said JESUS to the twelve, Will 

you also go away?

68. Then Simon Peter answered him, 
LORD, to whom shall we go? You 
have the sayings of eternal life.

69. And we have believed and known, 
that you are the CHRIST, the Son of 
the living GOD.

70. JESUS answered them, Have not I 

chosen you twelve, and one of you 
is a devil?

71. But he spoke of Judas Iscariot, [the 
son] of Simon, for he was about to 
betray him, being one of the 
twelve.

They are instructed further, that all men have not 
faith, and that from eternity the LORD foresaw the 
principles both of what is false and of what is evil, 
which are opposed to himself, and therefore taught, 
that none would believe in his DIVINE HUMANITY, 
who were not under the influence of the divine love, 
vs 64, 65.

Nevertheless, many of those who heard this 
instruction, relapse into their former evils and errors, 
which gives occasion to tender expostulation of 
divine love with those of the new church, who are 
more confirmed in its goods and truths, vs 66, 67.

Which expostulation excites confession on the part 
of those who are principled in faith, that the LORD'S 
Humanity was filled with the wisdom of the divine 
love, and thus was one with it, vs 68, 69.

Yet even amongst those, who have received the 
doctrines of the new church, and been made sensible 
of its goods, there are some who are under the 
influence of infernal love, vs 70, 71.

Exposition.

Verses 5, 13, 23. That the Lord fed five thousand men, besides women and children, with five loaves
and two fishes, and that after they had eaten and were satisfied, they took up twelve baskets of 
fragments, was a miracle worked, in consequence of the LORD having first taught them, and 
because they received and appropriated to themselves his doctrine; this was what they had 
spiritually eaten, and hence natural eating followed, namely flowed in from heaven with them, as 
the manna with the sons of Israel, whilst they were ignorant of it; for when the LORD wills, spiritual
food, which also is real food, but only for spirits and angels, is turned into natural, in like manner as
it was turned into manna every morning. AE 617.

Verse 13. Therefore they gathered together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five 
barley-loaves, &c. He who does not know that the number twelve signifies all things, cannot know 
the arcanum which is signified by taking up twelve baskets of fragments from the five loaves and 
two fishes, with which the LORD fed five thousand men besides women and children, when yet 

93

singular things with the numbers themselves are there significative; five thousand men besides 
women and children signify all of the church who are in truths derived from good, men those who 
are in truths, women and children those who are in goods; loaves signify the goods, and fishes the 
truths of the natural man; eating signifies spiritual nourishment from the LORD; twelve baskets of 
fragments signify the knowledges of truth and good thence derived in all abundance and fullness. 
AE 430.

By taking up twelve baskets of fragments is signified what is full, thus full instruction and full 
benediction. AE 548.

Verse 14. This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world. Frequent mention is made 
in the Word of a prophet, and in the sense of the letter it signifies those to whom revelation is made,
also abstractedly the revelation itself, but in the internal sense, it signifies one who teaches, also 
abstractedly the doctrine itself which is taught; and because the LORD, as was said, is doctrine itself,
or the Word which teaches, therefore he is called a prophet, as also in Moses, "A prophet shall 
JEHOVAH your GOD raise up from the midst of you, out of your brethren, like me, him shall you 
obey," Deut 18:15, 18; it is said like me, because the LORD was represented by Moses, as well as by 
Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, David, and several others; and inasmuch as they expected him, therefore it 
is written in John, "Those men, when they had seen the miracle that JESUS did, said, "This is truly 
the prophet that should come into the world. AC 2534.

Verse 27. Labour not for the meat which perishes, &c. For the spiritual signification of meat, see 
extracts at verses 32, 33, 34, of chap. iv. But for that meat which endures to everlasting life. By 
everlasting life is meant the life of the LORD, which is the life of faith and love towards him. AE 84.

Which the Son of Man shall give to you. The LORD is called the Son of Man when his passion is 
treated of, also when judgement is treated of, also when his advent is treated of, also when 
redemption, salvation, reformation, and regeneration are treated of; the reason is, because the Son 
of Man signifies the LORD as to the Word, or divine truth, and he, as the Word, suffered, judges, 
comes into the world, redeems, saves, reforms, and regenerates. Doctrine of the Lord, 23, 24, 25, 
26, 27.

Verses 28, 29. Then said they to him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God? 
Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe on him whom he has 
sent. When man shuns evil as sin, then he is in the LORD, and the LORD operates all things; 
wherefore the LORD said to those who asked him, what they should do that they might work the 
works of God, this is the work of God, that you believe on him whom he has sent, where to believe 
in the Lord is not only to think that he is, but also to do his words, as he elsewhere teaches. 
Doctrine of Life, 48.

That works signify those things which are of love and faith, the LORD makes manifest in these 
words, "They said to JESUS, What shall we do, that we may work the works of GOD ? He answered, 
This is the work of GOD, that you believe on him whom he has sent." The reason why works are so 
often mentioned, is, because the sense of the letter of the Word consists solely of external things 
which are in nature, and appear before the eyes; and this to the intent that a spiritual sense may be 
in singular the expressions as the soul in the body, for otherwise the Word would not be 
communicative with the angels, since it would be as a house without a foundation. Hence also it is 
that when works are mentioned, they are not so understood by the angels, because they are spiritual,

94

but those things are understood which gave birth to works, namely will or love, and hence the 
thought which is of faith. AE 98.

Verses 31, 32, 33. The disciples said to Jesus, What sign do you, that we may see and believe you? 
&c. In this passage the disciples were desirous of a sign, and that by it is signified testification that 
they might believe, is evident, for they said, that we may see and believe what you work; the reason
why on this occasion they spoke of manna, and why the LORD replied concerning bread from 
heaven, was, because by bread is signified every good and truth which nourishes the soul, and in 
the supreme sense the LORD himself, from whom is the all of doctrine and the all of spiritual 
nourishment, by which he testified that they might see and believe. AE 706.

Verses 31 to 35. They said, Our fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, as it is written, He gave 
them bread from heaven to eat, &c. &c. By bread are here signified all things which were 
represented by the sacrifices, thus in the internal sense the LORD himself, and because the LORD 
himself, it signifies love itself towards the universal human race, and the things which are of love; 
also the reciprocal principle of man, in respect to the LORD and towards his neighbour, thus it 
signifies all things celestial, that is, all love and charity belonging to man; wherefore they, who are 
not in love and charity, have not the LORD belonging to them, thus they are not gifted with things 
good and happy, which are signified by bread in the internal sense. AC 2165.

By manna was signified the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, and because it signified the 
Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, it signified celestial food, which is no other than love and 
charity with the goods and truths of faith; this food in the heavens is given every moment to the 
angels by the LORD, thus perpetually and to eternity, which is also meant in the LORD'S Prayer by 
Give us today our daily bread. AC 2838.

Verses 33, 35, 48. The bread of God is he which comes down from heaven and gives life to the 
world. The internal of the LORD was JEHOVAH himself, since he was conceived of JEHOVAH, who 
cannot be divided and become another's, as in the case of a son who is conceived by a man father; 
for the Divine [principle] like the Human, is not divisible, but is and remains one and the same; 
with this internal the LORD united the Human essence; and because the internal of the LORD was 
JEHOVAH, he was not a form recipient of life, like the internal of man, but was the life itself; his 
Human essence also by unification was in like manner made life, wherefore the LORD so often said,
that he is life, as in John, vs 26; 6:33, 35, 48. AC 1999.

Verses 33, 34, 47, 48, 51. The bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the
world; I am the bread of life. The bread of God and the bread of life is that from which all have life;
inasmuch as life, which is called intelligence and wisdom, is from the LORD, it follows also that life
in general is from him, for the singular things of life which make its perfection, and are insinuated 
into man, according to reception, are all of the general life, which latter, so far as the evils are 
removed from it into which man is born, so far it is perfected. AE 349.

Verse 35. I am the bread of life, he who comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me 
shall never thirst. That to hunger in this passage denotes to come to the LORD, and that to thirst 
denotes to believe in him, is evident; to come to the Lord is to do his precepts. AE 386.

That the LORD alone has life in himself, and that every man has life from him, the LORD himself 
teaches in the above words. AE 186.

95

Verses 36, 46. I said to you, that you also have seen me, and believe not; not that any one has seen 
the Father, &c. To see and not to believe denotes to know the truths of faith and not to receive; to 
see and to believe, denotes to know them and to receive; No one has seen the Father save he who is
with the Father, denotes, that the divine good cannot be acknowledged, except by divine truth; 
hence the internal sense is, that no one can have celestial good unless he acknowledges the LORD. 
AC 3863.

Verses 39, 40. At the last day. That this divine saying does not, as is commonly supposed, refer to 
any last day, when heaven and earth shall perish by conflagration, but that it denotes the last day of 
man in the world, and the end of a church, see chap. 3:17, 19, Exposition.

Verse 40. This is the will of him that sent me, that every one that sees, the Son, and believes in him, 
may have everlasting life. That they, who are conjoined to the LORD by love and faith, receive 
eternal life, that is, the life of heaven, which is salvation, is evident from the above words. Mention 
is made in the Word of believing in GOD, and believing the things which are from GOD, and to 
believe in GOD is the faith which saves; but to believe the things which are from GOD is historical 
faith, which, without the former, does not save, wherefore it is not true faith; for to believe in GOD 
is to know, to will and to do, but to believe the things which are from GOD is only to know, which 
knowledge may be given without willing and doing. AE 349.

That GOD is a man, and that the LORD is that man, is manifest from all things which are in the 
heavens, and which are beneath the heavens. In the heavens, all things which proceed from the 
LORD, in the greatest and in the least [parts] are either in a human form, or have reference to the 
human form. The universal heaven is in a human form, every society of heaven is in a human form,
every angel is a human form, and, likewise, every spirit beneath the heavens: and it has been 
revealed, that all things both least and greatest, which proceed immediately from the LORD, are in 
that form, for what proceeds from GOD is a resemblance of him. Hence it is, that it is said of the 
man Adam and Eve, that they were created into the image and likeness of God, Gen 1:26, 27. 
Hence, also, it is that the angels in the heavens, inasmuch as they are recipients of the Divine 
[principle] which proceeds from the LORD, are men of astonishing beauty, whereas spirits in the 
hells, because they do not receive the Divine [principle] which proceeds from the LORD, are devils, 
who, in the light of heaven, do not appear as men, but as monsters. From this consideration it is, 
that every one in the spiritual world is known from his human form, as to the degree in which he 
partakes of a Divine [principle] from the LORD. Hence now it may be manifest, that the LORD is the 
only man, and that every one is a man according to the reception of divine good and divine truth 
from him. In fine, he who sees GOD as a man, sees GOD, because he sees the LORD. The LORD also 
says, "He who sees the Son, and believes in him, has eternal life," John 6:40; to see the Son is to 
see him with the spirit, because it is said, also, to those who have not seen him in the world.

It was said, that the LORD is the only man, and that all are men according to the reception of divine 
good and divine truth from him. The reason why the LORD is the only man is, because he is life 
itself, but all others, inasmuch as they are men from him, are recipient of life. The distinction 
between the man who is life, and the man who is a recipient of life, is like what subsists between 
uncreate and created, and between infinite and finite, which distinction is such, as to admit of no 
ratio; for there is no ratio given between infinite and finite, thus there is none between GOD as a 
man, and between another as a man, whether he be angel or spirit, or a man in the world. That the 
LORD is life, he himself teaches in John, "The Word was with GOD, and GOD was the Word, in him 
was life, and the life was the light of men, and the word was made flesh," John 1:1, 4, 14; again, 
"As the FATHER has life in himself, so has he given to the Son to have life in himself," John 5:26; 

96

again, "As the living FATHER has sent me, and I also live by the FATHER," John 7:57; again, "I am 
the resurrection and the life," John 11:25; again, "I am the way, the truth, and the life," John 14:6. 
Inasmuch as the LORD is life, therefore, in other passages of the word, he is called the Bread of Life,
the Light of Life, and the Tree of Life, also, the Alive and Living God. Since he is life, and every 
man is a recipient of life from him, therefore, he also teaches, that he gives life and vivifies; as in 
John, "As the FATHER vivifies, so also the Son vivifies," John 5:21; again, "I am the bread of GOD 
which comes down from heaven, and gives life to the world," John 6:33; again, "Because I live, 
you shall live also," John 14:19; and in many passages, that He gives life to those who believe in 
him. Hence, also, GOD is called "A Fountain of life," Psalm 36:9; and in other places, Creator, 
Maker, Former, also, Potter, and we the clay, and the work of his hands. Inasmuch as GOD is life, it 
follows that in him we live, move, and are. Athanasian Creed, 24, 25.

Verse 44. No one can come to me, except the Father, which sent me, draw him; and I will raise him 
up at the last day. It is to be noted, that man of himself cannot approach to the LORD, and be 
conjoined to him, but the LORD must approach to man and be conjoined to him; and because the 
LORD draws man to himself, John 6:44, 12:32, it appears as if man of himself approaches and 
conjoins himself; this is effected, when man desists from evils, for to desist from evils is left to 
man's disposal or freedom; in such case good flows in from the LORD, which at no time is wanting, 
for it is in the life itself which man has from the LORD; but with the life, good is received only in 
that degree in which evils are removed. AC 9378.

Verse 45. And they shall be all taught of God. There is a spiritual idea, concerning which few know 
any thing, which flows in with those who are in the affection of truth, and interiorly dictates that 
what is heard or read is true, or not so. In this idea are they who read the Word in illustration from 
the LORD. To be in illustration is nothing else than to be in perception, and thence in internal 
acknowledgement that a thing is true: these are they who are called the taught of Jehovah, Isaiah 
54:13; John 6:45; and concerning whom it is said in Jeremiah, "Behold the day is coming, in which 
I will establish a new covenant; the covenant shall be this; I will give my law in the midst of them, 
and upon their heart I will write it; and they shall not teach any longer a man his companion, or a 
man his brother, saying, Know you JEHOVAH, for they shall all know me," Jer 31:31, 33, 34. 
Doctrine of Faith, 5.

The angels of the LORD'S celestial kingdom have received and do receive divine truths immediately 
in the life, and not as the spiritual angels, in previous memory and thought; wherefore they have 
them inscribed on their hearts, and perceive them, and as it were see them in themselves, nor do 
they at any time reason concerning them whether it be so or not so. They are such as are described 
in Jeremiah 31:33, 34; and they are called in Isaiah, the taught of Jehovah, Is 54:13. That they who 
are taught of JEHOVAH are such as are taught of the LORD, the LORD himself teaches in John 6:45, 
46. HH 25.

Verse 46. Not that any one has seen the Father, save he which is of God, he has seen the Father. See
Extracts at chap. 1:18.

Verses 47 to 51. I am that bread of life, &c. The burnt-offerings and sacrifices in the Jewish church 
represented nothing else but the celestial things which are of the LORD'S kingdom in the heavens, 
and of the LORD'S kingdom in the earths or in the church, also which are of the LORD'S kingdom or 
church with every one, in general all those things which are of love and charity, for these are things 
celestial; and each kind of sacrifice represented something peculiar; all these things were called at 
that time BREAD. When therefore the sacrifices were abolished, and in their place, instead of 

97

external worship, other things succeeded, it was commanded that bread and wine should be applied;
what bread therefore signifies, is hence now manifest, namely all those things which the sacrifices 
represented, thus in the internal sense the LORD himself, and because the LORD himself, it signifies 
love itself towards the universal human race, and the things which are of love; thus it signifies all 
celestial things, and consequently wine all spiritual things. This external symbolical [rite] was 
commanded, because the greatest part of the human race are in external worship, therefore without 
something external, there would scarce appertain to them any holy principle; wherefore when they 
live in love to the LORD, and in charity towards the neighbour, they have still an internal principle 
belonging to them, although they do not know that this is the veriest internal principle of worship; 
thus in their external worship they are confirmed in the goods which are signified by bread. AC 
2165.

Verses 49, 50. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead, &c. By the manna, 
which the sons of Jacob did eat in the wilderness, as to them, inasmuch as they were natural, is 
meant natural food; but by the bread which comes down from heaven, is meant spiritual food, 
because from the LORD alone; and since it is from him alone, in the supreme sense by bread is 
meant himself, wherefore also he says, I am the bread of life; for it is divine good united to divine 
truth, proceeding from the LORD, from which the angels, and likewise men, have spiritual life, 
wherefore by those words in the spiritual sense is meant, that they who nourish themselves only 
naturally from the Word are dead, that is, damned, as were the sons of Jacob, which also was 
signified by their all dying in the wilderness; but they who nourish themselves spiritually from the 
Word will not be liable to damnation, which is meant by their not dying; hence it is evident that it is
not meant not to die, but resurrection into life, because death, if it is not death, is life. AE 899.

Verses 49, 50, 51, 58. That goods and truths are the genuine food of man, may be manifest, for he 
who is deprived of them, has not life, but is dead; the kinds of food, with which his soul is fed when
he is dead, are delights derived from evils, and the pleasantnesses derived from falses, which are 
the food of death, also the delights derived from things corporeal, worldly and natural, which have 
nothing of life in them; and besides, such a man does not know what spiritual and celestial food is, 
insomuch that as often as food or bread is named in the Word, he supposes that corporeal food is 
signified, as in the LORD'S Prayer, when it is said, Give us today our daily bread, he supposes that it 
means only the diet of the body, and they who extend their ideas further, say that it includes also the
other necessaries of the body, as clothing, wealth, and the like; yea, they contend violently that no 
other food is meant; when yet they see manifestly, that the expressions which go before and which 
follow involve only celestial and spiritual things, and that the LORD'S kingdom is treated of; also 
they may know, that the Word of the LORD is celestial and spiritual; hence and from other like 
considerations, it may sufficiently appear how corporeal man is at this day, and that like the Jews, 
he is disposed to apprehend every thing which is said in the Word, in a material and most gross 
sense. The LORD himself teaches clearly what is signified in his Word by meat and bread; by meat 
where he thus says in John, "Labour not for the meat which perishes, but for the meat which 
endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man gives to you," John 6:27; by bread in the following 
words, "Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead; this is the bread, which comes 
down from heaven, that any one may eat thereof, and not die: I am the living bread, which comes 
down from heaven; if any one shall eat of this bread, he shall live for ever," John 6:49, 50, 51, 58; 
but there are some a this day, like those who heard these words, who say, "This is a hard saying, 
who can hear it; and who went backwards and walked no longer with him," verses 60, 66, of the 
same chapter, to whom the LORD said, "The words which I speak to you are spirit, and are life," 
verse 63. AC 680.

98

Verses 50 to 58. Every thing holy in heaven proceeds from the Divine Human [principle] of the 
LORD, and hence every thing holy in the church; wherefore lest it should be violated, the holy 
supper was instituted by the LORD, and it is said in express words on the occasion, that the bread 
there is his flesh, and the wine there is his blood, thus that it is his Divine Human [principle] from 
which is derived what is holy on the occasion. Amongst the ancients, flesh and blood signified what
is properly human, because what is properly human consists of flesh and blood; hence the LORD 
said to Simon, "Blessed are you, for flesh and blood has not revealed it to you, but my FATHER, who
is in the heavens," Matt 16:17; the flesh therefore and blood signified by the bread and wine in the 
holy supper, is the proper Human [principle] of the LORD; the proper principle itself of the LORD, 
which he acquired to himself by his own proper power, is divine; his proper principle from 
conception was what he had from JEHOVAH his FATHER, and was JEHOVAH himself, hence the proper
principle, which he acquired to himself in the Human [principle] was divine; this Divine proper 
principle [or proprium] in the human is what is called flesh and blood; flesh is his divine good, 
blood is the divine truth of the divine good. The human [principle] of the LORD, after it was 
glorified or made divine, cannot be conceived as human, but as divine love in a human form; and 
this more than the angels, who, when they appear, as they have been seen by me, appear as forms of
love and charity under a human aspect; for from the divine love the LORD made his Human 
[principle] divine, as by celestial love man is made an angel after death, so that he appears as a 
form of love and charity under a human aspect, as was said. Hence it is evident that by the Divine 
Human [principle] of the LORD in the celestial sense is signified the divine love itself, which is love
towards the universal human race, which it is willing to save, make blessed and happy, and to 
appropriate to it his own Divine [principle] as far as it is capable of being received; this love, and 
the reciprocal love of man to the LORD, and likewise love towards the neighbour, are what are 
signified and represented in the holy supper, divine celestial love by flesh or bread, and divine 
spiritual love by blood or wine. From these considerations it may now be manifest, what is meant 
by eating the LORD'S flesh, and by drinking his blood, in the following words, "I am the living 
bread which comes down from heaven; if any one eat of this bread, he shall live for ever. But the 
bread, which I will give, is my flesh: Verily, verily, I say to you, except you eat the flesh of the Son 
of Man, and drink his blood, you have no life in you: he who eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, 
has eternal life; and I will raise him up in the last day: For my flesh is truly meat, and my blood is 
truly drink: he who eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, abides in me, and I in him. This is the bread
which comes down from heaven," John 6:50-58; inasmuch as by flesh and blood is signified the 
divine celestial principle and the divine spiritual, which is from the Divine Human [principle] of the
LORD, as was said, or what is the same thing, the divine good and divine truth of his love, by eating 
and drinking is signified to appropriate those principles to one's self, which appropriation is 
effected by the life of love and charity, which also is the life of faith. AC 4735.

That the flesh of the LORD is the divine good of his divine love, and that his blood is the divine truth
proceeding from his divine good, may be manifest from this consideration, that those principles are 
what nourish the spiritual life of man; hence also it is said, My flesh is truly meat, and my blood is 
truly drink; and likewise, This is the bread which comes down from heaven; and whereas man by 
love and faith is conjoined with the LORD, therefore also it is said, He who eats my flesh, and drinks
my blood, abides in me and I in him. But as was said above, they alone comprehend this word, who 
can think above the sensual things of the body; especially they who are in faith and in love to the 
LORD; for these are elevated by the LORD from the life of the sensual principles of the body towards
the life of their spirit, thus from the light of the world into the light of heaven, in which light 
material things, which are in the thought from the body, disappear. AC 9127.

99

That the flesh of the LORD is divine good, and the blood divine truth, both from himself, may be 
manifest from this consideration, that those are the things which nourish the soul; hence it is said, 
My flesh is truly meat, and my blood is truly drink; and whereas man by divine good and truth is 
conjoined to the LORD, therefore also it is said, Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has 
eternal life, and likewise dwells in me and I in him. The reason why the LORD so spoke, namely 
why he named his flesh and his blood, and not his divine good and his divine truth, is, that the sense
of the letter of the Word might consist of such things as correspond to the spiritual things, in which 
the angels are principled; hence the conjunction of the men of the church by the Word with the 
angels, which otherwise would not have place. Inasmuch as blood signifies the divine truth 
proceeding from the LORD, and conjunction with the LORD is effected through its reception by man, 
therefore it is called the blood of the covenant, for covenant signifies conjunction. AE 329.

That flesh is the proprium of the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, which is the divine good of
the divine love, is very manifest, and it is that which in the holy supper is called body; and whereas 
bread and wine signify the same thing with flesh and blood, bread divine good, and wine divine 
truth, therefore the former were commanded instead of the latter. Divine good from the LORD was 
also signified by the flesh of the sacrifices, which Aaron, his sons, and they who sacrificed, and 
others who were clean, were to eat. AE 1082.

That they come worthily to the holy supper, who are principled in faith to the LORD, and in charity 
towards their neighbour; and that the truths of faith establish the presence of the LORD, and the 
goods of charity together with faith conjunction, has been above demonstrated in several chapters; 
from which considerations it follows that they, who come worthily to the holy supper, are conjoined
to the LORD, and that they who are conjoined to the LORD are in him, and he in them. That this 
effect has place with those who come worthily, the LORD himself declares in John, in the words, 
Whoever eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, dwells in me and I in him, John 6:56; that this is 
conjunction with the LORD he teaches also in another place, where he says, "Abide in me, and I in 
you; he that abides in me, and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit," John 15:4, 5. What else is
conjunction with the LORD, but to be amongst those who are in his body, and they make his body, 
who believe in him, and do his will; his will is the exercise of charity according to the truths of 
faith. TCR 725.

Verse 62. If then you shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before? That these words 
have reference to the LORD'S perfect union with the FATHER, is evident from those passages where 
the LORD speaks of his coming forth from the FATHER, and coming into the world, and of his again 
going to the FATHER, for by coming forth from the FATHER is to be understood, that the Divine 
[principle] itself assumed the Human; by coming into the world, is to be understood that he was as 
a man, and by going to the FATHER, that he united the Human essence to the Divine essence. This 
was understood by those words which the LORD spoke in John, If you shall see the Son of Man 
ascending where he was before; and again, Jesus knew that the Father had given all things into his 
hands, and that he came forth from God, and went to God; therefore he says to his disciples, Yet a 
little while I am with you, whither I go you cannot come, John 13:33; again, "I came forth from the 
FATHER, and am come into the world, again I leave the world, and go to the FATHER," John 16:28, 
where to go to the Father denotes to unite the Human essence to the Divine essence. AC 3736.

Verse 63. It is the spirit that quickens, the flesh profits nothing. In the Word, spirit is opposed to 
flesh, since by spirit is signified life from the LORD, and by flesh life from man, as in John, "It is 
the spirit which vivify, the flesh profits nothing; the words which I speak to you are spirit, and are 
life;" hence it is manifest that spirit is life from the LORD, which is the life of love and of faith in 

100

him from him, and that flesh is life from man, thus his proprium [or self-hood;] on this ground it is 
said, the flesh profits nothing. AC 10283.

Inasmuch as flesh signifies the proprium [or self-hood] in both senses, in the supreme sense the 
divine proprium of the LORD, which is his Divine Human [principle] thus the good of his love 
towards the universal human race, hence flesh, in the sense which relates to man, denotes the 
proprium [or selfhood] vivified by the LORD'S proprium, that is, the proprium of the LORD with 
man, thus the good of love to him; but in the opposite sense flesh denotes the proprium [or 
selfhood] of man, thus the evil of self-love, and hence the lusts or concupiscencies of that love, for 
the life of the flesh, which is proper to the body, is nothing but the pleasure of the senses, the 
delight of appetites, and craving. AC 8409.

Verse 63, latter part. The words which I speak to you are spirit and are life. He who believes that 
the holy divine [principle] which is in the Word, lies no deeper hid than in the sense which appears 
in the letter, discovers no holiness from any other source than from the belief that all things of the 
Word are divinely inspired, and that there are inexplicable arcana contained in it which are known 
only to GOD; but they, who are not in this belief, despise the Word merely on account of its style, 
which is to appearance more humble than the style which is applied to the temper of the world, 
such as is adopted by the generality of ancient and modern writers. But let them know that a holy 
divine [principle] lies concealed in all and singular things of the Word, yet that it consists in this, 
that all and singular things treat of the LORD, of his kingdom and church, which things are most 
holy, because they are divine things from the LORD, in which thus there is eternal life, according to 
the LORD'S words in John, The words which I speak to you are spirit, and are life, John 6:63; but 
those most holy divine things appear evident before the angels in heaven, because the angels do not
apprehend the Word naturally according to the literal sense, but spiritually according to the internal 
sense; men also would apprehend the Word according to this latter sense, if they lived angelic life, 
namely the life of faith and of love. The things contained in the internal sense of the Word are 
nothing else than what the genuine doctrine of the church teaches, namely the LORD, faith in him, 
love to him, and the love of the good which is from him, which love is charity towards the 
neighbour. They who live this life are enlightened by the LORD, and see the holy things of the Word,
which in no case are seen by others. AC 9086.

The reason why the Word in its literal sense is in its fullness, in its sanctity, and in its power, is, 
because the two prior or interior senses, which are called spiritual and celestial, are together in the 
natural sense, which is the sense of the letter; but in what manner they are together, shall be briefly 
explained. There is given in heaven and in the world successive order and simultaneous order. In 
successive order one thing succeeds and follows another from highest principles even to lowest; but
in simultaneous order one thing is near another from inmost principles even to outermost. 
Successive order is as a pillar with steps from the top to the bottom; but simultaneous order is as a 
work cohering with circumferences from the centre to the surface. It shall now be shown in what 
manner successive order becomes in the ultimate simultaneous order; the manner is this: the highest
principles of successive order become the inmost of simultaneous order, and the lowest principles 
of successive order become the outermost of simultaneous order, comparatively as a column of 
steps when subsiding becomes a body cohering in a plane. Thus what is simultaneous is formed 
from what is successive, and this in all and singular things of the natural world, and in all and 
singular things of the spiritual world, for in both worlds throughout there is a first, a middle, and a 
last, and the first by [or through] the middle tends and verges to its last. Thus in regard to the Word,
what is celestial, what is spiritual, and what is natural, proceed from the LORD in successive order, 
and in the last [or ultimate] are in simultaneous order; thus the celestial and spiritual senses of the 

101

Word are together in its natural sense. When this is comprehended, it may be seen in what manner 
the natural sense of the Word, which is the sense of its letter, is the basis, the continent and 
firmament of its spiritual and celestial senses; also in what manner divine good and divine truth in 
the sense of the letter of the Word is in its fullness, in its sanctity, and in its power. From these 
considerations it may be manifest, that the Word is the very Word itself in the sense of its letter, for 
within in this sense there is spirit and life, the spiritual sense being its spirit, and the celestial sense 
its life. This is what the LORD says, "The words which I speak to you are spirit and are life," John 
6:63. SS 37, 38, 39.

The divine love and the divine wisdom in the Word are meant by justice and judgement, the divine 
love by justice, and the divine wisdom by judgement, wherefore in the Word justice and judgement 
are predicated of GOD. The like is meant by light and life in John, "In him was life, and the life was 
the light of men," John 1:4, where by life is meant the divine love of the LORD, and by light his 
divine wisdom. The like is also meant by life and spirit in John, "JESUS said, The words which I 
speak to you are spirit and are life," John 6:63. DLW 38. See also TCR 214.

Verses 70, 71. Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? He 
spoke of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, &c. Judas Iscariot is called by the LORD a devil, John 
6:70; and it is said, that the devil put into his heart, John 13:2; and that after he had taken the sop 
Satan entered into him, John 13:27; Luke 22:3; the reason why it is so said, is, because by Judas 
Iscariot were represented the Jews, who, in consequence of being principled in falses derived from 
evil, are from evil called the devil, and from falses Satan; wherefore it is said that the devil put into 
his heart, for to put into the heart denotes into the love which is of his will, and that Satan, when he
had taken the sop, entered into him, for to enter into him with the sop denotes into the belly, and to 
enter into the belly denotes into the thought, and falses derived from evil are of the thought. AE 
740. See also AC 4751.

Verse 70. One of you is a devil. It is altogether unknown in the Christian world, that heaven and 
hell, or angels and devils, are from mankind, for it is supposed that angels were created such at the 
beginning, and that heaven was formed of them; it is also the common opinion, that the devil or 
satan was an angel of light, but in consequence of his rebelling, he was cast down with his crew, 
and that hence came hell. The angels are greatly astonished that such a faith obtains at this day 
amongst Christians, and still more, that they know nothing at all concerning heaven, when yet it is a
primary object of doctrine in the church; and whereas such ignorance prevails, they are rejoiced in 
heart, that it has pleased the LORD at this time to reveal to men many things concerning heaven and 
also concerning hell, and thereby as much as possible to dissipate the thick darkness which daily 
increases, in consequence of the church having come to its end: wherefore it is their desire that I 
would declare from them, that there is not in the universal heaven a single angel that was created 
such at first, nor a single devil in all hell that had been created an angel of light, and was afterwards
cast out of heaven, but that all both in heaven and hell are from the human race; in heaven such as 
had lived in the world in heavenly love and faith, and in hell such as had lived in hellish love and 
faith; and that hell in its whole complex, or collectively, is called the devil and satan, that hell 
which is behind,2 in which are evil genii, being called the devil, and that hell which appears in 
front, in which are evil spirits, being called satan.3 The nature of each of these hells may be seen in 
the Treatise on HEAVEN AND HELL, towards the end. That the Christian world have embraced such a 
faith relative to those in heaven and hell, the angels further said, proceeds from certain passages in 

2 Here the Author is to be understood as speaking of the situation of things and places as they appear to the spectator 

in the spiritual world, and which always have the same aspect with respect to his body, as to right and left, behind 
and before, above and beneath, &c. wherever he is, or which way soever he turns. 
See Arcana Coelestia, AC 694, 968.

3

102

the Word taken according to their literal sense only, and not illustrated and explained by genuine 
doctrine from the Word; when nevertheless the letter of the Word, if not enlightened by the genuine 
doctrine of the church, misleads the mind into various conceits, and gives rise to ignorance, 
heresies, and errors.4 

Another reason why the man of the church entertains such a belief, is, because he imagines that no 
one goes to heaven or hell before the time of the last judgement, concerning which he is of opinion 
that all things which visibly appear will then perish, and be succeeded by a new creation, and that 
the soul will then be reunited to its body, and in that state live again as a man: this belief involves 
another concerning the angels, namely, that they were created such from the beginning; for it 
cannot be believed that heaven and hell are from mankind, when it is supposed that none go to 
either till the end of the world. But in order that man may be convinced of the contrary, it has been 
granted me to have fellowship with angels, and also to converse with those who are in hell, and that
now for several years together, sometimes from morning till evening without interruption, and so to
receive information concerning heaven and hell; and all this to the end, that the man of the church 
may no longer remain in his erroneous faith concerning the resurrection at the time of the 
judgement, and concerning the state of souls in the mean time, and also concerning angels and 
concerning the devil; which faith, inasmuch as it is a faith in what is false, involves the mind in 
darkness: and with those who think concerning such things from self-derived intelligence, leads to 
doubt, and at length to a denial of them; for they say in their hearts, how can so great a heaven, and 
so many stars, together with the sun and moon, be destroyed and dissipated? and how can the stars 
fall from heaven upon the earth, which yet are so much bigger than the earth? or how can bodies, 
which have been devoured by worms, destroyed by corruption, and dispersed by all the winds, be 
collected together again for the use of their respective souls? what in the mean time becomes of the 
soul, and what sort of a being is it without the sensations which it enjoyed in the body? with many 
suggestions of a like kind, which being incomprehensible, fall not within the province of faith, but 
destroy in many the belief of man's eternal life, and of the existence of heaven and hell, and 
therewith all other articles of faith belonging to the church. That this is actually the consequence, 
we have sufficient proof in those who say, who ever came from heaven to tell us that there is such a
place? what is hell? surely it is only a creature of the brain? what is the meaning of man's being 
tormented for ever with fire? and what is the day of judgement? have not men been looking for it 
many ages in vain? not to mention a variety of other suggestions, which imply a denial of the 
whole. Lest therefore they who think thus, (as is the case with many who from their knowledge in 
worldly matters are reputed wise and learned) should any longer disturb and seduce the simple in 
faith and heart, and bring on infernal darkness in relation to a belief of GOD, of heaven, of eternal 
life, and of other things dependent thereon, the interiors of my spirit have been opened by the LORD,
and thus I have been permitted to converse with all whom I knew in the life of the body, after their 
decease, with some for days, with some for months, and with some for a year together, and also 
with so many others, that I should come short if I reckoned them at an hundred thousand, many of 
whom were in the heavens, and many in the hells. I have also spoken with some two days after their
decease, and told them that their friends were at that time preparing for their funeral; to which they 
replied, that they did well to remove out of the way that which had served them for a body and its 
functions in the world; and they desired me to tell them, that they were not dead, but living men 

4 That the doctrine of the church must be derived from the Word, AC 3464, 5402, 6832, 10763, 10765. That the 

Word is unintelligible without doctrine, AC 9021, 9409, 9424, 9430, 10324, 10431, 10582. That true doctrine is as 
a candle to those who read the Word, AC 10401. That genuine doctrine must be formed by those who are in 
illumination from the Lord, AC 2510, 2516, 2519, 9424, 10105. That they who abide in the literal sense of the 
Word without doctrine, can attain to no understanding of divine truths, AC 9409, 9410, 10582. And that they fall 
into many errors, AC 10431. The difference between those who teach and learn from the doctrine of the church 
derived from the Word, and those who teach and learn only from the literal sense of the Word, described, AC 9025.

103

equally as before, that they had only passed out of one world into another, and did not know that 
they had lost any thing by the change, having a body and senses as before, with understanding and 
will as before, and also like thoughts and affections, like sensations, like pleasures, and like desires,
as when they lived in this world. Most of those who were newly departed, on finding themselves 
living men as before, and in a similar state, (for after death the state of every one's life is at first the 
same as it had been in the world, but is successively changed either for heaven or hell), were 
affected with a new joy at their being alive, and said that they did not before believe it would be so;
but greatly wondered at their former ignorance and blindness with respect to the state and condition
of their life after death; and more particularly, that the men of the church should be in such darkness
as to these points, when nevertheless above all persons in the whole world they might be acquainted
with them.5

They then for the first time saw the cause of such blindness and ignorance, which is, that external 
things, such as relate to the world and the body, had so engaged and filled their minds, that they 
could not elevate them into the light of heaven, and penetrate into the things of the church any 
further than as to some points of doctrine; for corporeal and worldly things, when they are so much 
loved as at this day, occasion mere darkness in the mind, when man is desirous of thinking 
concerning the things of heaven beyond the limits prescribed in the doctrine of faith belonging to 
his church.

Many of the learned from the Christian world, when they find themselves after death in a body, in 
garments, and in houses as they had been in the world, are all amazement; and when they recall to 
mind, what they had thought concerning a life after death, the soul, spirits, and concerning heaven 
and hell, they are affected with shame, acknowledge their past infatuation, and that the simple in 
faith were much wiser than they, On examining those learned men who had confirmed themselves 
in such errors, and who had attributed all things to nature, it was found, that the interiors of their 
mind were shut, and the exteriors open, a proof that they had not looked towards heaven, but 
towards the world, and consequently also towards hell; for in proportion as the interiors of the mind
are open, in the same proportion man looks towards heaven, but in proportion as the interiors are 
shut and the exteriors open, in the same proportion he looks towards hell; for the interiors of man 
are formed for the reception of heavenly things, and his exteriors for the reception of worldly 
things, and they who receive the world and not at the same time heaven, receive hell.6

That the spirit of a man, after its separation from the body, is a man, and in a like form, has been 
made manifest to me by daily experience for many years, having seen and heard them a thousand 
times, and also conversed with them; particularly on this subject, that men in the world do not 
believe it, and that they who do believe it, are reputed by the learned as simple. The spirits were 
grieved at heart, that such ignorance should still prevail in the world, and especially within the 

5 Arcana Coelestia. That at this day few in Christendom believe, that man rises again immediately after death, see 

the preface to chap. xvi. of Gen. and AC 4622, 10758; but at the time of the last judgement when the visible world 
is to perish, AC 10595. The cause of such belief, AC 10594, 10758. That nevertheless man rises again immediately 
after death, and that then he is a man as to all and every particular, AC 4527, 5006, 7078, 8939, 8991, 10594, 
10758. That the soul, which lives after death, is man's spirit, which is the real man within him, and which also in 
the other life is in a perfect human form, AC 322, 1880, 1881, 3633, 4622, 4735, 5883, 6054, 6605, 6626, 7021, 
10594. Proved from experience, AC 4527, 5006, 8939; and from the Word, AC 10597. An explanation of what is 
signified by the dead being seen in the holy city, Matt 27:53, AC 9229. How man is raised from the dead, by 
experience, AC 168 to 189. Of man's state after resuscitation, AC 317, 318, 319, 2119, 5070, 10596. False opinions
respecting the soul and the resurrection, AC 444, 415, 4527, 1022, 4658.

6 Arcana Coelestia. That in man the spiritual and the natural worlds are conjoined, AC 6057. That the internal of man
is formed after the image of heaven, but his external after the image of the world, AC 3628, 4523, 4524, 6057, 
6314, 9708, 10156, 10472.

104

church; this, they said, proceeded principally from the learned, who judge of the soul from the 
bodily senses, in consequence of which they form no other idea of it, than as of simple thought, 
which, when considered without any subject in which and by which it may subsist, is like 
something floating in mere ether, which cannot but be dissipated on the death of the body: but 
inasmuch as the church holds the immortality of the soul, because it is taught in the Word, they 
cannot but assign to it something vital, of the quality of thought, though nothing of sense such as 
appertains to man, before it is reunited to its body again. On this opinion is founded the doctrine of 
the resurrection, and a belief in the soul's future conjunction with the body at the time of the last 
judgement; for from the aforesaid hypothesis concerning the soul, no other conclusion can be 
drawn, consistent with the faith of the church respecting man's eternal life. Hence it is, when any 
one thinks of the soul, according to the doctrine of the church, and at the same time according to the
above hypothesis, that he has not the smallest idea of its being a spirit, and that this spirit is in a 
human form. Add to this, that scarce any one at this day knows what is spiritual, and still less that 
they who are spiritual, as all spirits and angels are, have any thing of the human form. This is the 
reason why almost all who come from the world are greatly astonished at their being still alive, and 
equally men as before, without any difference whatever; hut when they cease to be amazed at 
themselves, they then wonder that the church should be ignorant of this state of men after death, 
when notwithstanding all that have ever lived in the world, are in the other life, and living men: and
because they were also surprised, that this was not discovered to man by visions, it was told them 
from heaven, that this could be done, for nothing is easier, when it is the LORD'S good pleasure, but 
that still they who had confirmed themselves in falses against it, would not believe, even though 
they were to have ocular demonstration thereof; and moreover, that it would be dangerous to 
manifest any thing from heaven to those who are immersed in worldly and corporeal pleasures, for 
in this case they would first believe and afterwards deny, and thus they would profane that essential
truth; for to believe and afterwards deny, is to profane; and they who profane, are thrust down into 
the lowest and most grievous of all the hells. This danger is understood by the LORD'S words, "He 
has blinded their eyes, and hardened their hearts, lest they should see with the eyes, and understand 
with the heart, and convert themselves, and I should heal them," John 12:40; and that they who are 
in worldly and corporeal loves, still would not believe, is understood by these words, "Abraham 
said to the rich man in hell, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them; but he said, 
Nay, father Abraham, but if one from the dead come to them, they will be converted; but Abraham 
said to him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they believe even if one rose from
the dead," Luke 16:29, 30, 31.

That heaven is from mankind, may appear from this consideration, that the minds of angels and 
men are alike, both possessing the same faculty of understanding, perceiving, and willing; and both 
are formed to receive heaven; for the human mind is capable of like wisdom with the angelical, and
the only reason why men are not as wise in this world as the angels, is because they are here 
confined to earthly bodies, and therein the spiritual mind thinks naturally, for man's spiritual 
thought, which he is endued with as well as an angel, during his life in the body flows into natural 
ideas corresponding with spiritual, and so are perceived therein; but it is otherwise when the mind 
of man is loosed from the fetters of the body, then it no longer thinks naturally but spiritually; and 
when it thinks spiritually, it conceives things incomprehensible and unutterable to the natural man, 
consequently in like manner as an angel. Hence it may appear evident, that the internal of man, 
which is called his spirit, is in its essence on angel.7 That an angel is in a perfect human form, may 

7 Arcana Coelestia. That there are as many degrees of life in man, as there are heavens, and that they are opened 

after death according to his life, AC 3747, 9594. That heaven is in man, AC 3884. That men, who live a life of love 
and charity, possess in themselves angelic wisdom, but unperceived while in the body, and that they enter into it 
after death, AC 2494. That man, who receives the good of love and faith from the Lord, is called an angel in the 
Word, AC 10528.

105

be seen in the treatise on HEAVEN and HELL, HH 73 to 77. But when the internal of man is not 
opened above, but only beneath, even then after its separation from the body, it appears in a human 
form, but monstrous and diabolical, for it cannot look upward to heaven, but only downward to 
hell.

That heaven and hell are from mankind, the church might also have known from the Word, and 
received as a part of its doctrine, if it had admitted of illumination from heaven, and attended to 
what the LORD said to the thief, "That this day he should be with him in paradise," Luke 23:43; and 
to what he said concerning Dives and Lazarus, "That Dives went to hell, and thence conversed with
Abraham, and that Lazarus went to heaven," Luke 16:19-31; or to what the LORD said to the 
Sadducees concerning the resurrection, "That GOD is not the GOD of the dead, but of the living," 
Matt 22:32. And moreover it might have been known from the common belief of all who live a 
good life, particularly from their belief at the hour of death, when they are no longer influenced by 
worldly and corporeal things, that they shall go to heaven immediately on their departure from the 
body. This belief prevails with all, when they do not think, from the doctrine of the church, 
concerning the resurrection at the time of the last judgement; in the truth of which any person may 
be confirmed, if he will make inquiry.

He who is instructed in the nature of divine order, may also know, that man was created for this 
end, namely, that he may become an angel, for in him is the ultimate of order, (see above, 9), 
wherein all that appertains to heavenly and angelic wisdom may be formed, renewed, and 
multiplied. Divine order never subsists in what is intermediate, nor forms any thing there without 
what is ultimate; but in order to its being in its fullness and perfection, it must proceed to its 
ultimate or limit: then, when it has attained thereto, it has the power of forming, and also, by virtue 
of things mediate therein repositioned, of renewing and producing itself afresh, which is effected by
means of procreation: wherefore in the ultimates is the seminary of heaven. This also is understood 
by what is said of man and of his creation in the first chapter of Genesis, vs 26, 27 28: "GOD said, 
Let us make man into our image, according to our likeness. And GOD created man into his image, 
into the image of GOD created he him; male and female created he them. And GOD blessed them, 
and GOD said to them, Be fruitful, and multiply yourselves;" to create into the image and likeness of
GOD, is to reposition in man all things of divine order from first to last, and thus as to the interiors 
of his mind to make him an angel.

The reason why the LORD rose again, not only as to his spirit, but also as to his body, is, because, 
when in the world, he glorified his whole humanity,.that is, made it divine: for his soul, being 
derived from the FATHER, was of itself the essential divinity, and his body became a likeness of the 
soul, that is, of the FATHER, and thus it was, also made divine. Hence it was, that, differently from 
all other men, he rose again both as to soul and body.8 This he also manifested to his disciples, 
when they took him to be a spirit, by saying, "Behold my hands and ray feet, that it is I myself: 
handle me and see, for a spirit has not flesh and bones, as you see me have," Luke 24:36, 37, 38; by
which he gave them to understand, that he was man not only as to spirit, but also as to body.

Moreover, that heaven and hell are from mankind, has been shown in many articles in the Treatise 
on HEAVEN AND HELL, as in the following: Concerning the Gentiles or people without the church in 
heaven, HH 318 to 328. Of infants or little children in heaven, HH 329 to 345. Of the wise and 
simple in heaven, HH 346 to 356. Of the rich and poor in heaven, HH 357 to 365. That every man 
is a spirit as to his interiors, HH 432 to 444. That man after death is in a perfect human form, HH 

8

See Arcana Coelestia. That man rises again only as to his spirit, AC 10593, 10594 That the Lord alone rose again 
as to his body, AC 1729, 2083, 5078, 10825.

106

453 to 460. That man after death retains every sense, as also the same memory, thought, and 
affection, which he had in the world, and that he leaves nothing behind him but his terrestrial body, 
HH 461 to 469. Of the first state of man after death, HH 491 to 498. Of his second state after death,
HH 499 to 511. Of his third state, HH 512 to 517. See also what is related concerning the hells, HH 
536 to 588. From all which particulars it may plainly appear, that heaven does not consist of any 
angels created such at the beginning, nor hell of any devil and his crew, but only of those who were 
born men.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 2. And much multitude followed him, &c. In the common version of the New Testament, what is here 
rendered much is called great; but it is to be noted, that in the original Greek the term is polus, which 
properly signifies much, whereas the term great is uniformly expressed by the term megas. It deserves 
further to be considered that these two terms, polus and megas, or much and great, involve in them distinct 
spiritual ideas, megas, or great, having always relation to the principle of good, whilst polus, or much, has 
relation to the principle of truth.

Verse 20. But he says to them, I am, be not afraid. In the common version of the New Testament, what is 
here rendered, I am, is expressed by the words It is I, but the original Greek is Ego eimi, which literally 
translated is I AM, thus again marking the supreme divinity of the speaker, by identifying him with JEHOVAH,
to whom alone belongs the significant appellation I AM.

Verse 27. For Mm has the Father sealed the God. This is a literal translation from the original Greek.

Verse 35. He that comes to me shall never hunger, and he that believes in me shall never thirst. A distinction 
is here made between coming to and believing in, because coming to has relation to the will or love, since 
every man, according to the spiritual idea, advances towards an object, or recedes from it, in proportion as 
the object affects his ruling will or love, whereas believing in has reference to the understanding or wisdom, 
all belief being grounded in the knowledge and acknowledgement of truth in that principle of the human 
mind.

Verses 53, 54. Then Jesus said to them, Verily, verily, I say to you, except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man,
and drink his blood, you have no life in you. He that eats my flesh, and drinks my blood, has eternal life. It is
remarkable that in the original Greek two distinct terms are here used to express the act of eating; for when 
the blessed JESUS says, Except you eat the flesh of the Son of Man, &c. He applies the term phagete, to 
express you eat, whereas when he says, He that eats my flesh, &c. He applies the term trogon, to express he 
that eats. The same distinction occurs again at verse 58, where it is written, "This is the bread that came 
down from heaven, not as your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead; he that eats of this 
bread shall live for ever;" for in speaking of the fathers eating manna in the wilderness, the term eating is 
expressed in the original by ephagon, but in speaking of him that eats of this bread, the term trogon is used. 
Hence it should appear that the act of spiritual eating is of two kinds, or degrees, one interior, and the other 
exterior, and that the former is expressed by trogo, and the latter by phago. Thus one man, in reading the 
HOLY WORD, may receive from it more interior nourishment than another, because he may feed on the bread 
of celestial love, or love to the LORD, whilst another receives more exterior nourishment, by feeding only on 
the bread of spiritual love, which is love to his neighbour—Quere, whether this is not the case also in regard 
to corporeal eating, so that although two different persons shall eat the same food, yet one shall derive from 
it a more interior nourishment than the other, and this according to the state and temper of mind in which he 
eats?

Verse 66. From this [time] many of his disciples went back, &c. What is here rendered back, is expressed in 
the original Greek by eis ta opiso, which literally means to things behind, or, according to the spiritual idea, 
to external things, thus teaching the edifying lesson, that the love of external things, such as relate to the 

107

world and the body, is a motive with many for no longer following the BLESSED JESUS in the regeneration, or
in pursuit of the internal things of his everlasting kingdom.

Verse 69. And we have believed and known, that you are the Christ, &c. Two terms, believing and knowing, 
are here applied by Simon Peter to express his attachment, and that of the rest of the apostles, to their DIVINE
LORD, the former having relation to the manner in which their understandings were affected towards him, 
and the latter having relation to the manner in which their wills were affected, thus both united denoting a 
full and complete attachment, grounded in the union of faith and love.

108

John Chapter 7

Chapter 7

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. AND after these things JESUS 

walked in Galilee, for he was not 
willing to walk in Judea, because 
the Jews sought to kill him.

2. But the feast of the Jews, [the feast]

of tabernacles, was near.

3. His brethren then said to him, 

Depart hence, and go into Judea, 
that your disciples may see your 
works which you do.

4. For no one does any thing in secret,
and himself seeks to be publicly 
talked of: If you do these things, 
show yourself to the world.

5. For neither did his brethren believe 

in him.

6. Then says JESUS to them, My time 
is not yet come, but your time is 
always ready.

7. The world cannot hate you; but me 
it hates, because I testify of it that 
its works are evil.

8. Go you up to this feast; I go not up 
yet to this feast, for my time is not 
yet fulfilled.

9. But when he had said these things 
to them, he remained in Galilee.

10. But when his brethren were gone 

up, then he himself also went up to 
the feast, not openly, but as in 
secret.

THAT the LORD has more delight in instructing the 
Gentiles, who are in the good of ignorance, than in 
instructing those of the perverted church, who are 
principled in self-love, because the love of the latter 
is opposed to his love, vs 1.

For the LORD is always seeking the implantation of 
good in truth, and thus liberation of the church from 
evil, vs 2.

Nevertheless he is tempted by the affections of the 
natural man to make an external display of his 
omnipotence, by which both they who are of the 
church, and they who are not of the church, might be
led to acknowledge him, vs 3, 4.

But this suggestion is not influenced by divine truth, 
which teaches, that the state of the LORD, when he 
was in the world, differed from that of natural men, 
because he was always advancing, as to his 
humanity, towards union with the divine good in 
himself, whereas natural men are in the present 
possession of their good, vs 5, 6.

And therefore natural men are not sensible of 
opposition from the powers of evil, whereas the 
LORD, as to his humanity, felt the whole weight of 
that opposition, in consequence of making those 
powers manifest, vs 7.

On which account natural men are enjoined the use 
of representative worship, but not so the LORD, since 
the glorification of his humanity is the end of all 
representations, and therefore he remains with those 
who receive him according to that end, vs 8, 9.

At the same time he interiorly is in the good of that 
representative worship, which relates to the 
implantation of good in truth, and thus to the 
glorification of his humanity, but not exteriorly, vs 
10.

109

By which means he excites enquiry in the church 
concerning himself, which enquiry leads some to 
justify him, and some to condemn him, yet all are 
afraid to speak their sentiments, being over-awed by 
public opinion, vs 11, 12, 13.

11. Then the Jews sought him at the 
feast, and said, Where is he?

12. And there was much murmuring 

amongst the multitudes concerning 
him; for some said, he is a good 
[man]; but others said, Nay, but he 
deceives the multitude.

13. Howbeit no one spoke freely about 

him, for fear of the Jews.

14. But about the midst of the feast, 

JESUS went up into the temple, and 
taught.

That from divine good, and consequent elevation 
into the light of divine truth, the LORD gives 
instruction, vs 14.

15. And the Jews wondered, saying, 
How knows this [man] letters, 
having never learned?

The interior source of which instruction cannot be 
apprehended by the natural man, vs 15.

16. JESUS answered them, and said, My
doctrine is not mine, but his that 
sent me.

Until he is taught, that the truth proceeding from the 
LORD'S humanity is not of the humanity only, but of 
the divine good dwelling in it, and one with it, vs 16.

17. If any one will do his will, he shall 
know of the doctrine, whether it be 
of GOD, or I speak from myself.

And that therefore all, who live in conformity with 
that good, will be instructed as to the origin of truth, 
vs 17.

18. He that speaks from himself seeks 
his own glory, but he that seeks the 
glory of him that sent him, the 
same is true, and injustice is not in 
him.

19. Did not Moses give you the law, 

and none of you does the law? Why
seek you to kill me?

20. The multitude answered and said, 
You have a demon; who seeks to 
kill you?

Since self-love always gives birth to false principles, 
whilst divine and heavenly love gives birth to 
principles of truth and justice, vs 18.

Hence comes the DIVINE WORD, which still is not 
obeyed, and therefore the LORD in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY is rejected, and his operation imputed to 
infernal agency, whilst they who reject him are not 
aware of the crime which they are committing, vs 19,
20.

110

21. JESUS answered and said to them, I 
have done one work, and you all 
wonder.

22. For this Moses gave you 

circumcision, (not that it is of 
Moses, but of the fathers) and on 
the sabbath you circumcise a man.

23. If a man on the sabbath receive 

circumcision, that the law of Moses
should not be broken, are you 
angry at me because I have made a 
man altogether sound on the 
sabbath?

24. Judge not according to appearance, 

but judge the just judgement.

25. Then said some of them of 

Jerusalem, Is not this he whom they
seek to kill?

26. And lo, he speaks freely, and they 
say nothing to him. Do the rulers 
know truly that this is truly the 
CHRIST ?

Therefore they are taught, that since the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY had manifested, by their own 
confession, an operation more than human; and since
on this account the Word, both in the Israelitish 
church, and in the ancient church, required 
purification from unclean loves, which requirement 
they fulfilled, as to its external representation, 
therefore out of regard to the Word, they ought not to
oppose that humanity in its purpose of 
communicating spiritual life, which was represented 
by the sabbath, vs 21, 22, 23.

Neither ought they to form their judgement from 
truth alone, but from truth in conjunction with its 
good, vs 24.

That the opposition of the perverted church to the 
LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY, was known to those 
who were principled in the doctrine of truth, and who
thus, seeing the power of the divine truth over its 
adversaries, are led to enquire how far they, who are 
principled in knowledges, believe in that humanity, 
vs 25, 26.

27. But we know this [man] whence he
is, but when the CHRIST comes, no 
one knows whence he is.

Yet they are perplexed about the origin of that 
humanity, because they could not discern his 
divinity, vs 27.

28. Then cried JESUS in the temple 
teaching, and saying, You both 
know me, and you know whence I 
am: and I am not come of myself, 
but he that sent me is true, whom 
you know not.

Therefore they are taught that the humanity was 
known, and also its origin, since it is not self-
derived, but from the invisible and unknown divinity,
vs 28.

29. But I know him, because I am from

him, and he has sent me.

Yet the humanity knows the divinity, because it 
proceeds from the divinity, vs 29.

30. Then they sought to lay hold of 

him, and no one laid the hand upon 
him, because his hour was not yet 
come.

That this doctrine excites violent opposition in will, 
but not in act, being restrained for the present by the 
LORD'S divine providence, vs 30.

111

31. But many of the multitude believed
in him, and said, that when CHRIST 
comes, he will not do greater 
miracles [signs] than these which 
this [man] has done.

32. The Pharisees heard that the 

multitude murmured these things 
concerning him; and the Pharisees 
and the chief priests sent officers to
lay hold of him.

33. Then JESUS said to them, Yet a little
while I am with you, and I go to 
him that sent me.

34. You shall seek me, and shall not 
find; and where I am, you cannot 
come.

35. Then said the Jews among 

themselves, Whither is he about to 
go, that we shall not find him? Is he
about to go to the dispersion of the 
Hellenists, and teach the 
Hellenists?

36. What word is this which he said, 
You shall seek me, and shall not 
find, and where I am, you cannot 
come?

37. But in the last day, the great [day] 
of the feast, JESUS stood and cried, 
saying, If any one thirst, let him 
come to me, and drink.

38. He that believes in me, as the 

Scripture has said, out of his belly 
shall flow rivers of living water.

39. But this said he of the Spirit, which
they that believe in him were about 
to receive, for the Holy Spirit was 
not yet, because JESUS was not yet 
glorified.

Nevertheless, with those who are principled in truth, 
it excites faith in the LORD'S humanity, the operation 
of which humanity is exalted by them above every 
other operation, vs 31.

But this faith so excited tends only to increase the 
spirit of opposition amongst those of the perverted 
church, who are principled in self-love, and therefore
they are taught, that the LORD'S humanity will 
certainly be united with his divinity, on which 
occasion he cannot be approached by those who 
merely speculate about him, because they are 
destitute of the love and life in which he dwells, vs 
32, 33, 34.

Still they who are principled in self-love are not able 
to comprehend what is meant by the union of the 
LORD'S humanity with his divinity, vs 35, 36.

Therefore they are further instructed, that if they are 
desirous of attaining the knowledge of truth, they 
must receive from the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY
the truths of doctrine and their faith, since hence 
comes spiritual intelligence of divine truth from the 
LORD, inasmuch as to impart such intelligence is the 
great purpose of the glorification of the LORD'S 
humanity, vs 37, 38, 39.

For spiritual intelligence of divine truth cannot be 
given but from divinity and humanity united in the 
one divine person of the LORD, vs 39, latter part.

112

That in consequence of this instruction, they, who are
principled in truth, are led to acknowledge the 
LORD'S humanity as the all of doctrine, and the all of 
truth, whilst others are perplexed about the divine 
origin of that humanity as taught in the Word, vs 40, 
41, 42, 43.

40. Many of the multitude therefore 

hearing the Word, said, This is truly
the prophet.

41. Others said, This is the CHRIST; but 
others said, Does CHRIST come out 
of Galilee?

42. Has not the Scripture said, that 

CHRIST, comes out of the seed of 
David, and out of the town of 
Bethlehem, where David was?

43. So there was a schism among the 

multitude, because of him.

44. But some of them were desirous to 
apprehend him, but no one laid 
hands upon him.

Hence inclination is inwardly cherished to do 
violence to that humanity, but the power to do it is 
checked, vs 44.

45. Then the officers came to the chief 
priests and Pharisees, and they said 
to them, Why have you not brought
him?

And on enquiry how, it was checked, it is discovered,
that the truth proceeding from that humanity was 
more than human, so that the simple could not resist 
it, vs 45, 46.

46. The officers answered, Never man 

spoke like this man.

47. Then the Pharisees answered them, 

Are you also deceived?

48. Have any of the rulers or of the 
Pharisees believed in him?

49. But this multitude, who know not 

the law, are cursed.

50. Nicodemus says to them, He that 

came to him by night, being one of 
them;

51. Does our law judge a man, unless it
first hear him, and knows what he 
does?

Therefore they, who are blinded by self-love, and 
who fancy themselves qualified by their superior 
learning to decide on what is true, or otherwise, 
condemn the simple as ignorant of the truth, vs 47, 
48, 49.

Yet their own learning suggests the consideration 
that no one ought to be condemned, until it be first 
known whether he be guilty, and what his guilt is, vs 
50, 51.

113

52. They answered and said to him, Art
you also of Galilee? Search and 
look that out of Galilee arises no 
prophet.

But this consideration is over-ruled, as not applicable
to the LORD'S humanity and the doctrine which he 
taught, since no teacher of truth can be born out of 
the church, therefore all abide in their own ruling 
love and persuasions, vs 52, 53.

53. And every one went to his own 

home.

Exposition.

Verse 2. But the feast of tabernacles was near. Three feasts were instituted in the Jewish church, on 
account of the liberation of man from damnation, thus on account of regeneration, for by 
regeneration man is liberated from hell, and is introduced into heaven, wherefore the first feast, 
which was called the feast of unleavened bread, signifies purification from falses; the second feast 
signifies the implantation of truth in good, and the third feast the implantation of good; for during 
man's regeneration, he is first purified from the falses which are derived from the evil of self love 
and the love of the world, which is effected by being instructed concerning evil, concerning hell, 
and concerning damnation, also concerning good, concerning heaven, and concerning eternal 
happiness: and by thus suffering himself to be withheld from doing, willing, and thinking evils. 
When the ground is thus prepared, then the truths of faith are inseminated, for they are not before 
received; but the truths which are inseminated must be implanted in good, since they have no 
ground in any other principle, neither can they fix root in any other principle; they are implanted in 
good, when man wills truth, loves it, and does it; this state of regeneration or of liberation from 
damnation is signified by the feast, which is called the feast of harvest of first fruits of works; for 
harvest signifies truths producing good. When truths are implanted ia good, then man is no longer 
led of the LORD by truths, but by good, which is effected when he wills good and does good from 
the affection of love, that is, from charity; this state of the regeneration or of liberation from 
damnation is signified by the third feast, which is called the feast of gathering together. These three 
feasts were also called the feast of the passover, the feast of weeks, and the feast of tabernacles, 
concerning which see Exod 34:18-23; Levit 23:1 to the end; Deut 16:1 to the end. Similar things to 
those represented by these three feasts were represented by the bringing forth of the sons of Israel 
out of the land of Egypt, by their introduction into the land of Canaan, and by habitation there: for 
by the bringing forth of the sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt, the like was represented as by 
the first feast, which was named the passover; that this is the case, may be seen from what has been 
shown concerning the passover, AC 7093, 7867, 7995; for the bringing forth of the sons of Israel, 
on account of which that feast was instituted, signified the liberation of those who were of the 
spiritual church from the falses whereby they were infested, AC 7240, 7317, 9197. But by the 
introduction of the sons of Israel into the land of Canaan, a like thing was represented as by the 
second feast, which was called the feast of the first fruits of works, and also the feast of weeks, 
namely the implantation of truth in good; for the land of Canaan denotes the church as to good, thus
the good of the church, AC 1607, 3038, 3481, 3686, 3705, 4240, 4447, 4517, 5136, 6516; and the 
sons of Israel, abstractedly from persons, are spiritual truths, AC 5414, 5879, 5951. The like also 
was represented by the habitation of the sons of Israel in the land of Canaan, as by the third feast, 
which was called the feast of the gathering together of the fruits of the earth, and of the gathering 
together out of the threshing-floor and the wine-press, also the feast of tabernacles, namely the 
implantation of good, and thereby life in heaven. From these considerations it is now evident why 
three feasts were instituted, namely that it was on account of the bringing forth of the human race, 

114

who are willing to receive new life from the LORD, out of hell, and their introduction into heaven; 
and this of the LORD by his coming into the world. AC 9294.

Verse 7. The world cannot hate you, but me it hates, because I testify of it that the works thereof are
evil. From these words it is evident that they, who are against the good of charity, are against the 
LORD, or what is the same thing, that they who are in evil hate the light, neither come to the light. 
AC 2349.

From the above words it is evident, that works are what save man, and what condemn man, namely 
that good works save, and that evil works condemn; for in works is the will-principle of man; he 
who wills good does good, but he who does not do good, however he may say that he wills good, 
still he does not will it when he does not do it; it is as if he should say, I will it but I do not will it; 
and whereas the will itself is in works, and charity is of the will, and faith is of charity, it is evident 
what of will, or what of charity and faith appertains to man, when he does not do good works, and 
especially when he does the contrary, namely evil works. AC 3934.

Verse 16. My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. See also verses 18, 28, 29. That the LORD as
to the Divine Human [principle] is called angel, or the sent, may be seen, AC 6280, and is likewise 
manifest from several passages in the New Testament, where the LORD says that he was sent by the 
FATHER; and to be sent signifies to proceed, and sent in the Hebrew tongue signifies an angel. AC 
6831.

Verse 23. If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be 
broken, are you angry at me, because I have made a whole man sound on the sabbath day? The 
sabbath was representative of the LORD'S conjunction with the human race, on which account it was
prohibited to light a fire on the sabbath-day, Exod 35:3, because by a fire was signified every thing 
which is of life, and by kindling a fire, what is of life from the proprium or self-hood. From these 
considerations it is evident that the LORD is the LORD of the sabbath, according to his words in 
Mark 12:1-9, and why most of the cures worked by the LORD were worked on the sabbath days; for 
the diseases, which were cured by the LORD, involved spiritual diseases, which are from evil. AC 
8495.

Verse 27. Howbeit we know this man whence he is, but when Christ comes, no man knows whence 
he is. In this passage Christ denotes the Messiah, and the reason why no one knew whence he is, 
was, because he was not acknowledged. AC 3008.

Verse 29. But I know him, for I am from him, and he has sent me. By being sent by the FATHER into 
the world is meant the assumption of the Human [principle] as is manifest from all the passages 
where it is also said, that he did the will of the Father and his works, which works consisted in 
overcoming the hells, in glorifying the Human [principle] in teaching the Word, and in establishing 
a new church, which things could not have been done except by the Human [principle] conceived 
of JEHOVAH, and born of a virgin, that is, unless GOD had been made a man. Treatise on the Lord, 
20, 31.

Verses 37, 38, 39. In the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any 
man thirst, let him come to me, and drink. He that believes on me, as the Scripture has said, out of 
his belly shall flow rivers of living water. But this said he of the Spirit, which they that believe on 
him should receive. By coming to the Lord and drinking, is signified to receive from him the truths 
of doctrine and their faith; that hence comes spiritual intelligence, is signified by rivers of living 

115

water flowing forth from his belly, living water denoting the divine truth, which is from the LORD 
alone, rivers denoting those things which are of intelligence, and the belly signifying thought from 
the memory, for it corresponds to it. And whereas by rivers of living water is signified intelligence 
by divine truth from the LORD, therefore it is added, these things said he of the Spirit which they 
that believe on him should receive, the Spirit denoting divine truth and intelligence thence derived, 
wherefore also the LORD calls the Spirit whom they were to receive, the Spirit of truth. AE 518. See
also AC 2702.

That by the Spirit, which they that believe on the LORD were to receive from him, is meant the life 
which is from the LORD, which is the life of faith and of love, is evident from singular the 
expressions in the above passage; for to thirst and to drink signifies the desire of knowing1 and of 
perceiving truth; rivers of living water, which were to flow from the belly, are divine truths; hence it 
is manifest that the Spirit, whom they were to receive, who is also called the Holy Spirit, is life 
from the divine truth proceeding from the LORD, which life is called, as was just now said, the life 
of faith and of love, and is the very essential spiritual and celestial life belonging to man; the reason
why it is said that the HOLY SPIRIT was not yet, because JESUS was not yet glorified, is, because the 
LORD, when he was in the world, himself taught divine truth, but when he was glorified, as was the 
case after the resurrection, he taught it by angels and spirits; that holy principle, which proceeds 
from the LORD, and flows in by angels and spirits with man, whether manifestly or not manifestly, 
is the Holy Spirit; for the divine truth proceeding from the LORD is what is called holy in the Word. 
AC 9818.

Verse 39, latter part. For the Holy Spirit was not yet, because that Jesus was not yet glorified. That 
the Holy Spirit is the divine truth which proceeds from the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, 
and not any spirit or any spirits from eternity, is evident from the LORD'S words in the above 
passage, namely that the Holy Spirit was not yet; also from this consideration, that the Spirit itself 
cannot proceed, but the Holy [principle] of the Spirit, that is, the Holy [principle] which proceeds 
from the LORD, and which the Spirit utters. From these considerations it now follows, that in the 
LORD the whole Trinity is perfect, namely FATHER, Son, and Holy Spirit, and thus that there is one 
GOD, but not three, who, being distinct as to persons, are said to constitute one Divine Being. AC 
6993.   In the Word the LORD is called JEHOVAH as to divine good, for divine good is the essential 
Divine [principle] itself, and the LORD is called the Son of GOD as to divine truth, for divine truth 
proceeds from divine good, as a son from a father, and is likewise said to be born. How this case is, 
it may be expedient further to explain. When the LORD was in the world, he made his Human 
[principle] divine truth, and at that time called divine good, which is JEHOVAH, his FATHER, since, as
was said, divine truth proceeds and is born from divine good; but after that the LORD fully glorified 
himself, which was effected when he sustained the last of temptation on the cross, he then made 
also his Human [principle] divine good, that is, JEHOVAH, and from it proceeded essential divine 
truth by virtue of his Divine Human [principle.] This divine truth is what is called the Holy Spirit, 
and is the Holy [principle] which proceeds from the Divine Human [principle]; hence it is evident 
what is meant by the LORD'S words in John, The Holy Spirit was not yet, because Jesus was not yet 
glorified, John 7:39. AC 7499. See also AC 8724. Treatise on the Lord, LORD 51.

It deserves well to be noted, that in the Word of the Old Testament no mention is any where made 
of the Holy Spirit, but only of the spirit of holiness in three passages, once in David, Psalm 51:13, 
and twice in Isaiah 63:10, 11. But in the Word of the New Testament, both in the Evangelists, and in
the Acts of the Apostles, and in their Epistles, it is mentioned frequently; the reason is, because the 
Holy Spirit then first was, when the LORD came into the world, for it proceeded by virtue of him 
from the FATHER; for the LORD ALONE is HOLY, Apoc 15:4; wherefore also it is said by the angel 

116

Gabriel to the mother Mary, THE HOLY [Thing] which shall be born of you, Luke 1:35. The reason 
why it is said, The Holy Spirit was not yet, because Jesus was not yet glorified, when yet it is before
said, that the Holy Spirit filled Elizabeth, Luke 1:41, also Zachariah, Luke 1:67, also Simeon, Luke 
2:25, was, because the Spirit of JEHOVAH the FATHER filled them, which was called the Holy Spirit 
on account of the LORD, who was already in the world. This is the reason why in the Word of the 
Old Testament it is no where said, that the prophets spoke from the Holy Spirit, but from JEHOVAH; 
for it is every where said, JEHOVAH SPOKE TO ME, THE WORD FROM JEHOVAH WAS MADE TO ME, 
JEHOVAH SAID, THE SAYING OF JEHOVAH. TCR 158. See also AE 748.

Verse 48. Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him? It is a common and known 
thing, that the learned have less belief in a life after death than the simple, and in general, that they 
see divine truths less than the simple; the reason is, because they consult scientifics, which they 
possess in greater abundance than others, from a negative principle, and thereby destroy in 
themselves contemplation from a superior or interior principle, and when this is destroyed, they no 
longer see any thing from the light of heaven, but from the light of the world, for scientifics are in 
the light of the world, and if they are not illuminated by the light of heaven, they induce darkness, 
however it appears otherwise to themselves. Hence it was that the simple believed in the LORD, but 
not the scribes and Pharisees, who were the learned in the Jewish nation, as is evident from these 
words in John, "Many of the crowd heard the Word, and said, This is truly the prophet; others said, 
This is the CHRIST: The Pharisees answered them, Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees 
believed in him," John 7:40, 47, 48; and in Luke, "JESUS said, I confess to you FATHER, LORD of 
heaven and earth, that you have hid such things from the wise and intelligent, but have revealed 
them to infants," Luke 10:21, where infants denote the simple. AC 4760.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 28. Then said Jesus in the temple, teaching and saying, &c. Two distinct terms are here applied in 
regard to the instruction imparted by the BLESSED JESUS, one called teaching, and the other saying, because 
the former has more reference to the truth which he delivered for the illumination of the human 
understanding, whilst the latter has more reference to the divine love from which he delivered it, for the 
vivification of the human will; thus both expressions combined have reference to the divine and heavenly 
marriage of love and wisdom, or of good and truth, which constitutes the essence and life of the holy Word.

Verse 28. You both know ME, and you know whence I am. These are the words of the BLESSED JESUS to the 
unbelieving Jews, and yet in chap. 8:14, he tells them, You know not whence I came; and at verse 19, You 
neither know me, nor my Father; if you had known ME, you would have known MY FATHER also. How now 
shall we reconcile this apparent contradiction in the words of the GREAT SAVIOUR, who first declares to the 
Jews, You both know me, and you know whence I am, and then at another time insists, You know not whence 
I came; you neither know me, nor my Father? Perhaps the only satisfactory method of removing the 
difficulty, which the seeming disagreement in the above words is calculated to excite, is to have recourse to 
the principle of explanation, by which we reconcile another apparent contradiction which occurs where it is 
written, They seeing, see not, and hearing, they hear not, Matt. 13:13. For as there is an external seeing, 
which yet i§ not properly seeing, because it is not in connection with internal light; and as there is an 
external hearing, which yet is not properly hearing, because not connected with internal hearing, in like 
manner there may be an external knowing, which yet is not properly knowing, because separated from its 
internal source, and thus it may be strictly true, that the Jews both knew the BLESSED JESUS, and did not 
know him; in other words, they had an external knowledge of him, but not an internal one; they knew him 
according to the letter of the Sacred Scriptures, but they did not know him according to the essential life and
spirit of the Holy Volume.

117

Verse 35. Is he about to go to the dispersion of the Hellenists, and teach the Hellenists? This is a literal 
translation from the original Greek, on which passage the pious and learned Dr. Hammond makes the 
following observation: "The Jews were dispersed before this time in several places among the Gentiles, 
some in Europe, others in Asia. Those in Europe had their chief assembly at Alexandria, and there the 
Septuagint's translation of the Bible into Greek was in use; and hence they are called diaspora 'Ellenon, the 
dispersion of the Hellenists. And of these there were many also at Jerusalem, which used the Septuagint's 
translation, being thus skilled in the Greek tongue. And these, living not in Greece, are yet called 'Elleniatai, 
(Acts 6:1) Hellenists, because they used the Greek language, and the Septuagint's translation; whereas others
are called 'Ebraoi, Hebrews." (See Paraphrase and Annotations on the Books of the New Testament.)

118

John Chapter 8

Chapter 8

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. BUT JESUS went to the Mount of 

Olives.

2. And early in the morning he was 

again present in the temple, and all 
the people came to him, and sitting 
down he taught them.

3. But the scribes and Pharisees 

brought to him a woman taken in 
adultery, and setting her in the 
midst,

4. They say to him, Master, 

[Didaskale, teacher] this woman 
was taken in adultery, in the very 
act.

5. But Moses in the law commanded 
us that such should be stoned; what
then say you?

6. But this they said tempting him, 

that they might have to accuse him.
But JESUS stooping down, with his 
finger wrote on the earth.

7. But when they continued asking 
him, lifting up himself, he said to 
them, He that is without sin 
amongst you, let him first cast the 
stone at her.

THAT the LORD elevated himself into his divine 
love, and filling his humanity with that love, he 
excites mutual love in the church, and from that love 
imparts heavenly truth, vs 1, 2.

On which occasion he is questioned by those, who 
are principled in self-intelligence and self-love, 
concerning the punishment due to the perversion of 
the affection of good in the church, which 
punishment, according to the Word, was deprivation 
of the truths of faith, vs 3, 4, 5.

But this enquiry proceeds from a purpose of deceit 
and evil, and therefore the LORD pronounces them 
damned who make it, and when the enquiry is still 
persisted in, he announces from his divine love, that 
the punishment due to the perversion of good, does 
not come from good, but from the perverting evil, vs 
6, 7.

8. And again stooping down, he wrote

on the earth.

And therefore they are damned, who are in the 
perverting evil, vs 8.

9. But they hearing, and convicted by 
conscience, went out one by one, 
beginning at the oldest to the last; 
and JESUS was left alone, and the 
woman standing in the midst.

And in consequence of that evil, they become mere 
external men, without mutual love, according to the 
several degrees in which they have confirmed 
themselves in evil, separating themselves from the 
LORD, and from the affection of good, vs 9.

119

10. But JESUS lifting up himself, and 
beholding no one except the 
woman, said to her, Woman, where 
are those your accusers? Has no 
one condemned you?

11. But she said, No one, LORD. And 
JESUS said to her, Neither do I 
condemn you; go, and sin no more.

12. Then again JESUS spoke to them, 

saying, I am the light of the world; 
he that follows me shall not walk in
darkness, but shall have the light of
life.

13. The Pharisees therefore said to 

him, You bear witness of yourself, 
your witness is not true.

14. JESUS answered and said to them, 
Though I bear witness of myself, 
my witness is true, because I know 
whence I came, and whither I go; 
but you know not whence I came, 
and whither I go.

15. You judge according to the flesh; I 

judge no one.

That on this occasion the LORD'S divine love to the 
church is excited, and from perception of the 
separation of those who were in evil, the church is 
led to enquire concerning the accusations of evil 
spirits, and the condemnation which they bring, and 
is thus taught, that no evil condemns, which is not 
seen to be sinful; but when it is seen to be sinful, 
then it must no longer be persisted in, vs 10, 11.

Instruction is also given, that the LORD in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY is the divine truth itself, and that whoever
acknowledges his humanity to be divine, and does 
his precepts, shall be preserved from falses, and shall
be principled in divine truths, which teach man 
eternal life, and lead to heaven, vs 12.

But this instruction is rejected, as contrary to the 
truth, by those who are principled in self-love, and 
who contend, that truth cannot be its own testimony, 
vs 13.

They are therefore instructed further, that the truth 
carries its own testimony along with it, because it 
acknowledges its divine origin, and divine end, 
whereas they, who are principled in self-love, know 
neither the origin nor the end of truth, vs 14.

Thus they are guided merely by their own self-
derived intelligence, which condemns all that are 
opposed to itself, whereas divine truth united with 
divine good condemns no one, vs 15.

16. And yet if I judge, my judgement is
true, because I am not alone, but I 
and the FATHER that sent me.

Nevertheless divine truth exercises just judgement, 
but then it is a judgement not derived from truth 
alone, but from divine good in union with it, vs 16.

17. It is also written in your law, that 
the testimony of two men is true.

Agreeable to what the Word teaches, in the internal 
sense, concerning the testimony of two men, vs 17.

18. I am one that bear witness of 

myself, and the FATHER that sent 
me bears witness of me.

Thus the LORD'S humanity, which is divine truth, and
his divinity, which is divine good, bear united 
testimony to the truth, vs 18.

19. Then said they to him, Where is 

your FATHER ? JESUS answered, You
neither know me, nor my FATHER; 
if you had known me, you would 
have known my FATHER also.

That they of the perverted church, who are principled
in self love, are hence led to enquire concerning the 
divine good, and are instructed that they are ignorant 
both of divine truth and divine good, and that had 
they been acquainted with divine truth, or the LORD'S
DIVINE HUMANITY, they would have been acquainted
also with divine good, or his DIVINITY, vs 19.

120

20. These sayings spoke JESUS in the 
treasury, teaching in the temple; 
and no one laid hold of him, 
because his hour was not yet come.

That this instruction was from the knowledges of 
good and truth in the LORD'S humanity, to which 
humanity no violence was as yet offered, because the
period of its glorification was not yet arrived, vs 20.

21. Then said JESUS again to them, I go
away, and you shall seek me, and 
shall die in your sin. Whither I go, 
you cannot come.

22. Then said the Jews, Will he kill 

himself, because he says whither I 
go, you cannot come?

23. And he said to them, You are from 
beneath; I am from above; you are 
of this world; I am not of this 
world.

24. I said therefore to you, that you 
shall die in your sins; for if you 
believe not that I am, you shall die 
in your sins.

25. Then said they to him, Who are 

you? And JESUS said to them, The 
Beginning, which thing I also 
spoke to you.

26. I have many things to speak and to 
judge of you; but he that sent me is 
true, and I say to the world those 
things which I have heard from 
him.

Therefore the LORD, in that humanity, testifies 
further concerning those who are principled in self-
love, that he is about to leave the world, and that 
they will speculate concerning him, but still will 
destroy in themselves all heavenly life through their 
evils and falses, and thus can have no communion 
with him, vs 21.

And when this testimony is misunderstood, he 
testifies yet further, that all, who are principled in 
self-love, are in connection with infernal spirits, and 
are also in worldly love, whereas his humanity is in 
connection with divinity, and thus undefiled by 
worldly love, vs 22, 23.

Therefore they, who are principled in self-love, 
separate themselves from the life of heaven, since 
such separation is a certain consequence of not 
acknowledging the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY to 
be JEHOVAH, vs 24.

That enquiry is hence excited amongst those who are
of the perverted church, concerning the LORD'S 
humanity, and they are instructed that it is the first 
and supreme of all principles, agreeable to its 
constant testimony, being in possession of all 
knowledge, by reason of its union with the divine 
good, vs 25, 26.

121

27. They knew not that he spoke to 

them of the FATHER.

28. Then said JESUS to them, When you
have lifted up the Son of Man, then
you shall know that I am, and do 
nothing of myself, but as my 
FATHER has taught me, I speak 
these things.

29. And he that sent me is with me; the
FATHER has not left me alone; 
because I do always those things 
that please him.

30. As he spoke these things, many 

believed in him.

31. Then said JESUS to those Jews who 
believed him, If you abide in my 
Word, you are truly my disciples.

32. And you shall know the truth, and 
the truth shall make you free.

This however is not apprehended by them, and there 
fore they are instructed further, that when the 
humanity is glorified, or made divine, then it will be 
seen that it is essential life, and that all its operation 
and thought are from that life, and therefore the 
divinity is always present with the humanity, and the 
humanity never separated from divinity, since its 
operation is always in accord with the divine will, vs 
27, 28, 29.

That in consequence of this instruction, faith in the 
LORD'S humanity is excited and prevails, and they, 
who receive it, are further taught, that if they 
continue to live according to his precepts, they will 
be taught of him, and will understand divine truth, 
and will thus be delivered from the bondage of sin, 
vs 30, 31, 32.

33. They answered him, We are the 

seed of Abraham, and were never 
in bondage to any one; how say 
you, you shall be made free?

This instruction however is rejected, and it is argued 
that since they are in possession of the Word, and 
were never in bondage to sin, it is to no purpose to 
speak to them about escaping that bondage, vs 33.

34. JESUS answered them, Verily, 

verily, I say to you, that every one 
who does sin, is the servant of sin.

35. But the servant abides not in the 

house for ever; the Son abides for 
ever.

36. If then the Son shall make you free,

you shall be free indeed.

37. I know that you are the seed of 

Abraham; but you seek to kill me, 
because my Word has no place in 
you.

38. I speak what I have seen with my 

FATHER, and you therefore do what 
you have seen with your father.

Therefore they are further instructed, that in the love 
of evil there is servitude, and that they who are in 
such servitude, cannot enter into heaven, which is 
open only to those who are in divine truth, vs 34, 35.

If then they are in divine truth, leading them to 
renounce evil love, then they will attain the true 
freedom, which consists in being led of the LORD, vs 
36.

It is granted that they possess the Word, but 
inasmuch as they reject divine truth, it is a full proof 
that the truth of the Word is not received by them, 
since the truth of the Word is from the divine good, 
and therefore they, who reject it, cleave to what is 
false derived from infernal evil, vs 37, 38.

122

39. They answered and said to him, 

Abraham is our father: JESUS says 
to them, If you were Abraham's 
children, you would do the works 
of Abraham.

40. But now you seek to kill me, a man
who has spoken to you the truth, 
which I have heard from GOD; this 
did not Abraham.

41. You do the works of your father. 

Then said they to him, We were not
born of fornication; we have one 
FATHER, GOD.

42. Then said JESUS to them, If GOD 

were your FATHER, you would love 
me. For I came forth, and come 
from GOD, neither came I of 
myself, but he has sent me.

43. Why do you not know my speech? 
Because you cannot hear my Word.

44. You are of your father, the devil, 

and the lusts of your father you are 
willing to do. He was a murderer 
from the beginning, and stood not 
in the truth, because the truth is not 
in him. When he speaks a lie, he 
speaks from his own; for he is a 
liar, and the father of it.

45. But because I say the truth, you do 

not believe me.

46. Which of you convinces me of sin?
But if I say the truth, why do you 
not believe me?

47. He that is of GOD hears the sayings 
of GOD; you therefore hear not, 
because you are not of GOD.

Still they insist that they are regenerated of the LORD;
but they are again taught, that if they were 
regenerated of the Lord, they would love what the 
LORD loves, but that in rejecting divine truth, they 
oppose divine love, and by so doing prove 
themselves to be in infernal love, vs 39, 40, and part 
of 41.

Still they insist that they are not principled in evils 
and falses, but in divine truth; and therefore they are 
further instructed, that if they were principled in 
divine truth, they would love the LORD'S humanity, 
because that humanity was from the divine truth, and
is the divine truth; and the reason why they do not 
understand this, is, because they are not rightly 
affected towards the internal sense of the Word, vs 
part of 41, 42, 43. 

Therefore they are in the false of faith, and are thus 
in the cravings of evil, and destroyers of all 
intellectual truth, cherishing evil in the will, and the 
false principles thence derived in the understanding, 
vs 44.

On which account they reject the LORD in his 
humanity, although in his humanity he was essential 
purity, and ought to be believed in as essential truth, 
vs 45, 46.

For every one, who is principled in divine truth, lives
in obedience to divine truth, and if any are 
disobedient, it is because they are not principled in 
divine truth, vs 47.

123

That the perverted church reject this instruction, as 
proceeding from ignorance of the Word, and from 
infernal agency, therefore they are further taught, 
that the LORD'S humanity is not under infernal 
control, but under divine government, and is 
therefore rejected, vs 48, 49.

And that it does not exalt itself, but is exalted and 
instructed by the essential divinity, and therefore 
whoever lives according to the LORD'S precepts is 
delivered from damnation, vs 50, 51.

But this instruction is also rejected by the perverted 
church, through mis-interpretation, and regarded as a
further proof of infernal agency, and as exalting the 
LORD'S humanity in an undue measure; therefore 
they are again taught, that if the humanity exalted 
itself, its exaltation is no exaltation, but that it is 
exalted by the SUPREME DIVINITY, who is regarded in
the church as the supreme teacher of truth, vs 52, 53, 
54.

48. Then answered the Jews, and said 
to him, Say we not well that you 
are a Samaritan, and have a devil?

49. JESUS answered, I have not a devil, 
but I honour my FATHER, and you 
do dishonour me.

50. But I seek not mine own glory; 

there is one that seeks and judges.

51. Verily, verily, I say to you, if any 
one keep my Word, he shall never 
see death.

52. Then said the Jews to him, Now we

know that you have a devil. 
Abraham is dead, and the prophets,
and you say, If any one keep my 
Word, he shall never taste of death.

53. Art you greater than our father 

Abraham, who is dead? And the 
prophets are dead; whom make you
yourself?

54. JESUS answered, If I glorify myself,

my glory is nothing; it is my 
FATHER that glorifies me, of whom 
you say that he is your GOD.

55. And you have not known him; but I
know him: And if I should say that 
I know him not, I should be like 
you, a liar; but I know him, and 
keep his Word.

Who yet is unknown in the church, and known only 
to the assumed humanity; therefore the humanity 
must testify to such knowledge, because it is the 
truth; thus it testifies that both in understanding and 
in will it is one with the SUPREME DIVINITY, vs 55.

56. Your father, Abraham, was glad to 
see my day, and he saw, and 
rejoiced.

And was accordingly seen in the representative 
church under a human form, exciting the affections 
both of truth and good, vs 56.

57. Then said the Jews to him, You are 
not yet fifty years old, and have 
you seen Abraham?

And notwithstanding appearances to the contrary, 
arising from its being born in time, is yet the 
ETERNAL JEHOVAH, vs 57, 58.

58. JESUS said to them, Verily, verily, I 
say to you, before Abraham was, I 
am.

124

59. Then took they up stones to cast at 
him; but JESUS hid himself, and 
went out of the temple, going 
through the midst of them, and so 
passed by.

That this instruction is opposed by the false 
persuasions originating in the natural mind, which 
darken the truth in such a manner, that it is no longer 
seen, and therefore is unnoticed, though it is the 
central life of all men, vs 59.

Exposition.

Verse 1. But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. By the Mount of Olives, when it is predicated of the
LORD, is signified the divine love, and it was on account of this signification that he was 
accustomed to make his abode on that mountain, and then discoursed with his disciples concerning 
his coming, and the consummation of the age, that is, concerning the last judgement; and he 
likewise went thence to Jerusalem, and suffered; and by this was signified, that he did all things 
from divine love, inasmuch as the Mount of Olives signified that love; for whatever the LORD did in
the world, this was representative, and whatever he spoke was significative. AE 405. See also AE 
638.

Verses 2 to 11. But the scribes and Pharisees brought to him a woman taken in adultery, &c. By the
LORD, on this occasion, writing on the earth, the like is signified as in those words of Jeremiah, 
They who recede from me shall be written in the earth, Jer 17:13, namely that they were equally 
damned on account of adultery, wherefore he said, He that is without sin amongst you, let him first 
cast the stone at her; by the LORD writing twice on the earth in the temple, was signified their 
damnation on account of adulteries in the spiritual sense, for the scribes and Pharisees were those 
who adulterated the goods and falsified the truths of the Word, thus of the church, and adulteries in 
the spiritual sense are adulterations of good and falsifications of truth; wherefore also that nation is 
called by the LORD an adulterous and sinful nation, Mark 8:38. AE 222. See also AE 304.

Inasmuch as adulteries are contrary to conjugial love, it is not possible for adulterers to be with the 
angels in heaven; their contrariety also to goodness and truth is a cause of separation; for the same 
reason it is impossible they should be in the heavenly marriage, which is rendered further 
impossible by the filthy ideas they entertain concerning marriage; when marriage is only 
mentioned, and an idea thereof occurs, instantly their ideas are filled with lascivious, obscene, and 
wicked abominations; in like manner when the angels discourse concerning goodness and truth, 
adulterers think contrary thereto; for all affections and thoughts thence derived, remain with man 
after death such as they have been in the world. It is in the mind of adulterers to destroy societies, 
most of them being cruel, see AC 824, thus in their hearts contrary to charity and mercy, making 
mock at the miseries of others, desiring to deprive others of their property, and practising such 
desires as far as they dare, delighting in the destruction of friendships, and in sowing the seeds of 
enmities; they pretend to a religious principle, in that they say they acknowledge the Creator of the 
universe, and a providence but only universal, and salvation grounded in faith, and that their lot will
not be worse than that of others; but when they are explored as to their qualities in heart, which is 
done in another life, it is then discovered that they do not even believe these things, but instead of 
the Creator of the universe they acknowledge nature, instead of a universal providence they 
acknowledge no providence, and respecting faith they think nothing; and all this is a consequence 
of the utter opposition of adulteries to goodness and truth; hence any one may judge how adulterers 
can come into heaven.

125

They who by adulteries have contracted a loathing and nauseousness to marriage, convert every 
delight, blessedness, and happiness, as it comes from the heaven of angels, into what is loathsome 
and nauseous, afterwards into what is painful, and lastly into what is stinking, so that they cast 
themselves headlong thence towards hell.

I am well informed by the angels, that when any one commits adultery on earth, heaven is instantly 
closed against him, and that he afterwards lives immersed solely in worldly and corporeal things; 
and then, although he hears of the things belonging to love and faith, still they do not penetrate his 
interiors: and whatever he himself speaks concerning those things, does not come from his 
interiors, but only from his memory and his lips, under the impulse of self-conceit or the love of 
gain; for the interiors are closed, and cannot possibly be opened but by earnest repentance. AC 
2747 —2750,

Verse 12. Then again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world; he that follows me 
shall not walk in darkness. Light is frequently mentioned in the Word, and by it in the internal sense
is signified truth which is derived from good; but in the supreme internal sense by light is signified 
the LORD himself, because he is good and truth itself. There is likewise actually light in heaven, but 
infinitely brighter than light in the earth; this light also illuminates the understanding of man, 
especially of a regenerate man, but it is not apperceived by man so long as he is in the life of the 
body, by reason of the light of the world which then rules. That the LORD is light, that is, good and 
truth itself, thus that from him is all intelligence and wisdom, consequently salvation, may be 
manifest from several passages in the Word, also from this, "JESUS said, I am the light of the world, 
he that follows me, shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." AC 3195.

Light in the above passage denotes the LORD, from whom is all good and truth; darkness denotes 
falses, which are dispersed by the LORD alone. AC 1839.

I am the light of the world, signifies that he is the divine truth itself; he that follows me, signifies he 
who acknowledges the Divine [Being] himself, and does his precepts; shall not walk in darkness, 
signifies that he shall not be in falses; but shall have the light of life, signifies that he shall be in 
divine truths, which teach man eternal life, and lead to heaven. That in this passage by following the
LORD is not meant to follow him, but to acknowledge his divinity, and to obey him, is evident. AE 
864.

Verse 15. You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one. That the LORD imputes good to every 
man, and does not impute evil to any one, consequently that he does not judge any one to hell, but 
elevates all, so far as they follow, to heaven, is manifest from these his own words, Jesus said, I 
judge no one; for by judgement in this passage and in other passages in the Word, is meant 
judgement to hell, which is damnation, whereas concerning salvation judgement is not predicated, 
but resurrection to life. TCR 652. See also AC 8685.

Verse 18. I am [one] that bear witness of myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness of me. 
As to what concerns the signification of bearing witness, or testimony, a distinction is made in the 
Word between laws, statutes, judgements, precepts, testimonies, words, commands, truths, 
covenants, as may be manifest from very many passages, especially from David in Psalm cxix. 
where all those terms are named, and testimonies, verses 2, 14, 31, 46, 59, 88, 91, 111, 124, 128, 
144, 163, in like manner in other places, from which it may be manifest that testimony is the divine 
truth, which testifies concerning the LORD, thus that it is the Word, for the Word in the supreme 
sense treats of the LORD alone, and hence in the internal sense testifies concerning him, that is, 

126

teaches him, and the truths which are of faith and the goods which are of love, which are from him. 
In this sense it is written, "I am who testify concerning myself, and the FATHER who sent me 
testifies concerning me," John 8:18; again, "Search the Scriptures, for they are they who testify of 
me," John 5:39; again, "The Paraclete, the Spirit of truth, he shall testify of me," John 15:26, 27; 
from which passages it is manifest, that the divine truth is called a testimony from its testifying 
concerning the LORD; this truth is the Word, for the Word in the supreme sense, as was said above, 
treats of the LORD alone, hence the Word is divine, and hence its holy [principle.] AC 9503.

Verse 19. If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. These words relate to the 
union of good with truth, and of truth with good, or, what is the same thing, of the divine essence of
the LORD with the human, and of the human with the divine, wherefore he says in another place, 
"The words which I speak to you I speak not from myself, the FATHER who is in me does the 
works," John 14:10. Hence it is manifest, that he was not another [being] from the FATHER, 
although he spoke of the FATHER as of another, and this on account of the reciprocal unification, 
which was to take place, and which did take place; for he openly and frequently says, that he is one 
with the FATHER. AC 2004.

Verse 21. You shall seek me, and shall die in your sins. They, who either pervert, or extinguish, or 
reject in themselves the good which is of love and the truth which is of faith, have not life in 
themselves; for life, which is from the Divine [Being or principle] consists in willing what is good, 
and believing what is true; but they, who do not will what is good, but what is evil, or believe not 
what is true, but what is false, have a principle contrary to life; this principle contrary to life is hell, 
and is called death, and persons of this description are called dead. That the life of love and of faith 
is called life, and likewise eternal life, and that they, who have it in themselves, are called living 
men; and that what is contrary to life is called death, and likewise death eternal, and that persons of 
this description are called dead men, is manifest from several passages in the Word, and amongst 
others from John 8:21, 24, 51. AC 7494. Verse 24. If you believe not that I am, you shall die in your
sins. Inasmuch as the acknowledgement of the LORD is the first of all things relating to spiritual life,
and the most essential principle of the church, and since without it no one can receive from heaven 
any thing of the truth of faith and of the good of love, therefore the LORD also frequently says, that 
he who believes in him has eternal life, and he who believes not, has not life, as John 7:37, 38; 8:24.
See also AC 10287.

Verses 31, 32. Then said Jesus to those Jews who believed him, If you abide in my Word, you are 
truly my disciples; and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. He who acts in 
any case from the affection which is of the love of good, acts from a free principle; but he who acts 
from the affection, which is of the love of evil, appears to himself to act from a free principle, but 
he does not act from a free principle, because from the lusts which are from hell; he alone is free, 
who is in the affection of good, because he is led of the LORD, which the LORD also teaches in John 
8:31, 32, 34, 36. That freedom consists in being led of the LORD, and servitude in being led of lusts 
which are from hell, may be seen AC 892, 905, 2870 to 2893, 205, 6477, 8209; for the LORD 
implants affections in favour of what is good, and aversion to what is evil, hence to do good is 
freedom, and to do evil is altogether servile. He who believes that Christian liberty has a further 
extent, is very much deceived. AC 9096.

When the internal principle conquers, as is the case when it has reduced the external to agreement 
and compliance, then man is gifted by the LORD with essential liberty, and essential rationality; for 
then man is rescued by the LORD from infernal liberty, which in itself is servitude, and is introduced
into celestial liberty, which in itself is essential freedom, and has consociation granted him with the 

127

angels. That they are servants [or slaves] who are in sins, and that the LORD makes those free, who 
by the Word receive truth from him, he himself teaches in John 8:31-36.

Verses 31 to 36. You shall know the truth, and the truth, shall make you free. They answered him, 
We are the seed of Abraham, and were never in bondage to any one; how say you, you shall be 
made free? &c. &c. By these words is understood that freedom consists in being led of the LORD, 
and that servitude consists in being led of hell; by truth which makes free, is meant the divine truth 
which is from the LORD, for he who receives that truth in doctrine, and life is free, because he 
becomes spiritual, and is led of the LORD; wherefore also it is said that the Son abides in the house 
for ever, if the Son makes you free, you shall be free indeed, where by the Son is meant the LORD, 
and likewise truth, and to abide in the house denotes in heaven; that to be led of hell is servitude, is 
taught by these words, every one who does sin is the servant of sin, where sin denotes hell, because 
it is from hell. AE 409.

All that is called freedom which is of the will, thus which is of the love, and hence it is that freedom
manifests itself by the delight of willing and of thinking, and hence of doing and of speaking, for all
delight is of love, and all love is of the will, and the will is the esse of the life of man. To do evil 
from the delight of love, appears to be freedom, but it is servitude, because it is from hell. To do 
good from the delight of love, appears to be freedom, and likewise is freedom, because it is from 
the LORD. Servitude therefore consists in being led of hell, and freedom in being led of the LORD. 
This the LORD teaches in John 8:34, 35, 36. AC 9585, 9586.

Verses 33, 39, 44. They answered him, We are the seed of Abraham, Abraham is our father, &c. &c.
Every one may know, who thinks at all deeply or interiorly, that by the seed of Abraham, of Isaac, 
and of Jacob, which is so often mentioned, and of which it is so often said that it should be blessed,
and this above all nations and people on earth, in the divine Word cannot be signified their 
posterity, for these amongst all nations were least of all principled in the good of love to the LORD 
and of charity towards the neighbour, yea, neither were they principled in any truth of faith; for 
what the LORD is, what his kingdom, thus what heaven is, and what a life after death, was entirely 
unknown to them, as well because they were not willing to know, as because if they had known, 
they would altogether have denied those things in their heart, and would thus have profaned interior
goods and truths, as they had profaned exterior by so often becoming open idolaters, which is the 
reason why interior things are so rarely extant in the sense of the letter in the Word of the Old 
Testament: it was in consequence of this their character that the LORD said of them, when they 
called themselves the seed of Abraham, "If you were the sons of Abraham, you would do the works 
of Abraham; you are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father you are willing to do." By 
Abraham is here also understood the LORD, as in the Word throughout; that they were not his seed 
or sons, but of the devil, is said plainly; hence it is evident, that by the seed of Abraham, of Isaac, 
and of Jacob in both the historical and prophetical Word are in no case meant their posterity, for the 
Word is divine throughout, but all are meant who are the LORD'S seed, that is, who are principled in 
the good and truth of faith in him. AC 3373.

That by father in the opposite sense is signified evil, is evident from this passage in John, "JESUS 
said, If GOD was your father, you would love me, for I came forth and come from GOD: you are of 
your father the devil, and the desires of your father you are willing to do; he was a murderer from 
the beginning, and stood not in the truth, because the truth is not in him; when he speaks a lie, he 
speaks from his own, because he is a liar, and the father of a lie. AC 3703.

128

That devils were not originally angels of light, as is commonly supposed, but men who have died in
an unregenerate and wicked state, is evident from the above words, for if the devil was a murderer 
from the beginning, how could he ever have been an angel of heaven? See this proved above, chap. 
6:70, Exposition.

From the above words it is evident, that the Jews are not meant by the seed of Abraham, but that by 
Abraham is understood the LORD, and by the seed of Abraham divine truth from the LORD, which is 
the Word, for it is said, "I know that you are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill me, because my 
Word has not a place in you;" by the LORD saying, I know that you are Abraham's seed, is signified 
that he knew that the truth of the church, which is the Word, appertained to them; but that still they 
rejected the LORD, is signified by you seek to kill me; and that they were not in divine truths from 
the LORD, is signified by because my Word has not a place in you; and that nothing but evil and the 
false thence derived appertained to them, is signified by you are of your father the devil, and the 
truth is not in him; and afterwards, when he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own; by a lie is 
signified divine truth or the Word adulterated; the reason also why the LORD said, I know that you 
are Abraham's seed, was, because by Judah is signified the LORD as to the Word. AE 768.

Goods and truths, inasmuch as they are the conception and birth of heavenly marriage, are called 
sons by the LORD in Matthew, where it is written, "He who sows the good seed is the Son of Man, 
the field is the world, but the seed are the sons of the kingdom," Matt 13:37, 38; the goods and 
truths of saving faith are also called the sons of Abraham, John 8:39; for seed, as was said, is faith, 
wherefore sons, which are of the seed, are the goods and truths of faith, hence also the LORD, 
because he is the seed, called himself the Son of Man, that is, the faith of the church. AC 264.

Verse 42. I came forth, and am come from God. By coming forth is meant to be of him, or to be his, 
as is manifest from the spiritual sense of that expression; for to come forth or to proceed, in that 
sense, denotes to present himself before another in a form accommodated to him, thus to present 
himself the same in another form; in this sense the LORD is said to come forth, as in John, "JESUS 
said of himself, I came forth, and am come from GOD," 8:42. AC 5337.

Verse 44. You are of the father the devil, &c. The Jewish nation was very far from being a celestial 
church or celestial kingdom of the LORD; for as to love to the LORD, and charity towards the 
neighbour, and as to faith, it was the worst of all nations, and this from their first fathers, namely 
the sons of Jacob, even to the present time; but still they were such as could represent the celestial 
and spiritual things of the LORD'S kingdom, because in representations the person is not reflected 
on, but the thing which is represented. But when they did not abide in the rituals commanded by 
JEHOVAH or the LORD, but turned away from them to idolatries, they then no longer represented 
those things, but the things which are opposite, namely things infernal and diabolical, according to 
the LORD'S words in John, "You are of the father the devil, and the desires of your father you are 
willing to do; he was a murderer from the beginning, and stood not in the truth." AC 3881. See also 
AC 4751, 7051.

Verses 43, 44. That the Jews from the beginning were against truths, and in falses from evil, is 
signified by their father being a murderer from the beginning, and by the truth not being in him, but
a lie; a murderer is a destroyer of the truth of the church, and father denotes those that were before. 
AE 122.

That a lie in the spiritual sense denotes evil and the false, which are of faith, is manifest from the 
following passage in John, "You are of the father the devil, and the desires of your father you are 

129

willing to do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and stood not in the truth, because the truth is
not in him; when he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own, because he is a liar, and the father of a 
lie." In this passage a lie denotes the false of faith; for the subject treated of is concerning the Jews, 
that they were not willing to acknowledge the LORD; devil in the spiritual sense here denotes the 
false, and its father denotes evil; for the false is from evil, as a son from a father; the false which is 
of the devil is the false of faith, and evil is the evil of self-love and of the love of the world. AC 
8908.

In the above words is described the Jewish nation, such as it had been from the beginning, namely 
that it was in evils and falses; by the father the devil is meant evil from hell, in which their fathers 
had been principled in Egypt and afterwards in the wilderness;" that they were willing to remain in 
the evils of their lusts, is meant by the desires of your father you are willing to do; that they 
destroyed all truth of the understanding, is signified by being a murderer [homicide or man-slayer] 
from the beginning, and not standing in the truth, because the truth is not in him; man signifies the 
truth of intelligence, hence a man-slayer its destruction; falses derived from their evil are signified 
by when he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own; his own [proprium] signifies evil of the will, and 
a lie signifies the false principle thence derived. AE 740. See also AE 589.

Verse 46. Which of you convinces me of sin? That the LORD bare the iniquities and evils of 
mankind, is a form of speaking commonly used in the pulpit; but to derive evils and iniquities upon 
himself was impossible, except in an hereditary way from the mother; the Divine [principle] is not 
susceptible of evil; wherefore that he might overcome evil by his own proper strength, which no 
man ever could or can do, and might thus alone become justice, he was willing to be born as 
another man; otherwise there would have been no need that he should be born; for he might have 
assumed the human essence without nativity, as he also did assume it occasionally, when he 
appeared to the most ancient church, and likewise to the prophets; but he came into the world for 
this reason, that he might also put on evil, in order to fight against and overcome it, and might thus 
join together in himself the divine essence and the human essence. The LORD however had no 
actual or proper evil, as he himself declares in John, Which of you convinces me of sin ? AC 1573.

Verse 52. If any one keep my Word, he shall never taste of death. By keeping the words of the LORD 
is signified to live according to the LORD'S precepts; not to see death signifies non-damnation, but 
life into which man rises again and enters by death. AE 899.

Verse 56. Your father, Abraham, was glad to see my day, &c. The infinite itself, which is above all 
the heavens, and above the inmost principles belonging to men, cannot be manifested except by the 
Divine Human [principle] which appertains only to the LORD; the communication of the infinite 
with finite beings can not be effected in any other way, which also is the reason, when JEHOVAH 
appeared to the men of the most ancient church, and afterwards to the ancient church which was 
after the church, likewise-next to Abraham and the prophets, that he was manifested to them as a 
man, and that this man was the LORD, he himself openly teaches in John, "Your father, Abraham, 
was glad to see my day, and he saw, and rejoiced: Verily, verily, I say to you, before Abraham was, I
am." AC 1990. See also AC 9315.

That the ancients had an idea of a Human [principle] in respect to the divine, is manifest from the 
divine appearing before Abraham, Lot, Joshua, Gideon, Manoah, and others, who, although they 
saw GOD as a man, still adored him as the GOD of the universe, calling him the GOD of heaven and 
of earth, also JEHOVAH. That it was the LORD who was seen by Abraham, he himself teaches in John
8:36. HH 84.

130

The LORD himself was indeed seen amongst the ancients, for he says to the Jews, "Your father, 
Abraham, was glad to see my day, and he saw, and rejoiced: I say to you, before Abraham was, I 
am," John 8:56, 58. But whereas at that time the LORD was only represented, which was effected by
angels, therefore all things of the church belonging to them became representative; but after that he 
came into the world, those representations vanished. TCR 109.

Verse 58. Before Abraham was, I am. The most ancient people, who were wiser than the modern 
race of mankind, had no other idea of GOD, than as of a man whose head is encompassed with 
radiant circles. All also who were of the church, from the time of Adam even to Abraham, Moses, 
and the prophets, thought of GOD as of a man; they also saw him under a human form, and called 
him JEHOVAH, as is evident from the Word; and GOD under a human form is the LORD, as is 
manifest from the LORD' words in John, Before Abraham was, I am. AE 808. See also AC 1607.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 25. Then they said to him, Who are you? And Jesus said to them, The Beginning, which thing I also 
spoke to you. In the common version of the New Testament, what is here rendered, the Beginning, which 
thing I also spoke to you, is rendered, the same that I said to you from the beginning, but in the original 
Greek it is literally, the beginning, which thing I also spoke to you. Thus the blessed JESUS again asserts his 
supreme divinity, by calling himself e Arche, which is the same title which he also assumes, Rev 1:8, where 
he calls himself the Beginning and the Ending; and again, at chap. 3:14, the Beginning of the Creation of 
GOD.

Verse 27. They knew not that he said the Father to them. In the common version of the New Testament, these
words are rendered, They understood not that he spoke to them of the Father; but in the original Greek it is 
literally, They knew not that he said the Father to them. The literal rendering therefore is given, because it is 
expedient to maintain precision as to every expression in the original, and thus not to confound knowing 
with understanding, or saying with speaking, since in the internal sense the expressions have peculiar and 
distinct meanings.

Verse 38. I speak what I have seen with my Father, and you therefore do what you have seen with your 
Father. In the common version of the New Testament, the term therefore in this passage is omitted, but in the
original, what is here rendered therefore is expressed by the term oun which properly signifies therefore, or 
on that account, or for that reason, thus implying, that as the BLESSED JESUS, as to his humanity, always 
spoke in agreement with what was dictated from his DIVINITY, for the same reason, or therefore, the Jews 
always acted in agreement with what was dictated from their father, or from the devil, since it is of necessity
that a man must always act in conformity with his ruling principle, or ruling love, that a good man in 
conformity with heavenly love from GOD, and a wicked man in conformity with infernal love from the 
enemy of GOD. According then to this view of the subject, the term therefore cannot be omitted without 
diminishing greatly the force and importance of the LORD'S divine words.

Verse 42. For I came forth, and come from God. In the common version of the New Testament, these words 
are rendered, For I proceeded forth, and came from GOD, but in the original it is literally, I came forth, and 
come from GOD, meaning probably, not only the first assumption of his infirm humanity from his divinity, 
but also his continual assumption of a DIVINE Humanity from the same divine source, which latter 
assumption may be properly called a continual coming from GOD. On this occasion it may be proper to 
remark, that the Greek term eko, which is rendered I come, appears to have a more interior meaning than the 
term erchomai, from which exielthon is derived.

Verse 43. Why do you not know my speech? Because you cannot hear my Word. The intelligent reader will 
not fail to note, in this remarkable passage, a distinction which the BLESSED JESUS makes between his speech
and his Word, and also between knowing the one, and hearing the other, from which distinction he will 

131

clearly discover, that the speech of the DIVINE SPEAKER implies his outward or literal meaning, whereas his 
Word is expressive of the internal, spiritual, and divine things involved in that meaning. He will also 
discover further, that the reason why the outward or literal meaning of the DIVINE SPEAKER is not better 
known, is, because the internal, spiritual, and divine things, which are involved in it, are not more attended 
to, or, what is the same thing, are not regarded as objects of infinitely more importance than any other.

Verse 44. He was a homicide from the beginning, and stood not in the truth. What is here rendered homicide,
is expressed in the original by the term anthropoktonos, which is literally a homicide, or man-slayer, 
denoting in its internal sense a destroyer of charity, so that the two expressions taken together, first, that he 
was a homicide from the beginning, and secondly, that he stood not in the truth, denote the entire extinction 
of all charity and faith, or of all good and truth, which is the proper character of the infernals.

Verse 44. When he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own, &c. In the common version of the New Testament, 
what is here rendered from his own is rendered of his own, but the expression in the original is ek ton idion, 
which is literally from his own, that is to say, from the principles of what is evil and false in his own mind.

Verse 54. Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing; it is my Father that glorifies me, &c. In the
common version of the New Testament, these words are rendered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing; 
it is my Father that honours me, &c; thus substituting honouring and honour in the place of glorifying and 
glory, as if there was no difference between the one and the other, when yet, in the internal sense, honouring 
and honour have more respect to the principle of good, whilst glorifying and glory have more respect to the 
principle of truth. See note above, John 5:41.

Verse 55. And you have not known him, but I know him, &c. It is remarkable that in the original two distinct 
terms are here applied to express the idea of knowing; for when the BLESSED JESUS says, You have not 
known him, he adopts a term derived from the root ginosko, whereas when he says, But I know him, he 
adopts a term derived from the root eideo, whence it would appear that there are different degrees of 
knowledge, and that the term ginosko is expressive of a more external degree, whilst the term eideo is 
expressive of what is more internal.

Verse 56. Your father, Abraham, was glad to see my day, and he saw, and rejoiced. In the common version of
the New Testament, these words are rendered, Your father, Abraham, rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it, 
and was glad, thus confounding the order of the two states, rejoicing and being glad, by making Abraham 
first rejoice, and then be glad, whereas in the original he is made first to be glad, and then to rejoice, and this
according to the right order in the progress to bliss. For in the ascending scale of regenerate life, the right 
order is, that man should first be glad before he rejoices, since to be glad, or gladness, has reference to the 
gratification which he derives from the light or knowledge of truth in his understanding, whereas to rejoice, 
or joy, has more reference to the gratification derived from the love of good in his will, which latter 
gratification cannot be tasted but by first passing through the former.

Verse 58. Before Abraham was, I AM. The serious and intelligent reader will here again discover, and rejoice 
in the discovery of an express declaration of the identity of the JESUS of the New Testament with the 
JEHOVAH of the Old, since JESUS again assumes to himself the sacred name, I AM, by which JEHOVAH had 
been before distinguished.

132

John Chapter 9

Chapter 9

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. AND passing by, he saw a man 

blind from [his] birth.

2. And his disciples asked him, 

saying, Rabbi, who did sin, this 
[man] or his parents, that he was 
born blind?

THAT divine inquisition is taken of those, who are 
out of the church, and have not received instruction 
from the Word, and enquiry is made concerning the 
source of their ignorance, vs 1, 2.

3.

4.

JESUS answered, Neither has this 
[man] sinned, nor his parents, but 
that the works of GOD might be 
made manifest in him.

To which enquiry divine reply is made, that their 
ignorance does not proceed either from actual or 
hereditary evil, but that it is permitted to the end that 
the divine operation may be rendered more manifest 
by its removal, vs 3.

I must work the works of him that 
sent me whilst it is day: the night 
comes when no man can work.

Which operation is effectual in all states of good and 
truth belonging to the church, but not when evil and 
false principles prevail, vs 4.

And is from the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, who, in 
that humanity is the source of divine truth, and who, 
by the literal sense of the Word reforms those who 
are in ignorance, gifting them with the understanding
of truth, vs 5, 6, 7.

Which reformation appears scarcely credible to 
those, who witnessed the former ignorance of those 
who are the subjects of it, and therefore they are led 
to enquire concerning the manner in which it was 
effected, vs 8, 9, 10.

5. Whilst I am in the world, I am the 

light of the world.

6. When he had thus said, He spat on 
the ground, and made clay of the 
spittle, and he anointed the eyes of 
the blind man with the clay;

7. And said to him, Go, wash in the 
pool of Siloam, which is, by 
interpretation, Sent. He went his 
way therefore, and washed, and 
came, seeing.

8. The neighbours therefore, and they 
who before had seen him that he 
was blind, said, Is not this he that 
sat and begged?

9. Some said, that it is he; but others, 
that he is like him. He said, I am 
he.

10. Then they said to him, How were 

your eyes opened?

133

11. He answered and said, A man 

called JESUS made clay, and said to 
me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and 
wash: And I went and washed, and 
received sight.

12. Then said they to him, Where is 

he? He says, I know not.

13. They bring to the Pharisees him 

that aforetime was blind.

14. But it was the sabbath when JESUS 
made the clay, and opened his eyes.

And are informed, that it was effected by the LORD in
his humanity, through the instrumentality of the letter
of the Word, and the purification thereby worked 
from unclean loves, in consequence of which 
purification the understanding was opened to the 
light of truth, vs 11.

Hence enquiry is further made concerning the LORD'S
humanity, which they, who have been reformed by it,
cannot answer, vs 12.

On which occasion the rulers of the perverted church
are made acquainted with the case, and how the 
understanding of truth had been restored through the 
letter of the Word, vs 13, 14.

15. Then again the Pharisees also asked
him, How he had received his 
sight? He said to them, He put clay 
upon mine eyes, and I washed, and 
do see.

Therefore enquiry is made amongst them respecting 
it, and they are instructed that the restoration of the 
understanding of truth was effected by the good of 
faith derived from the literal sense of the Word, 
producing purification from evil, vs 15.

16. Then some of the Pharisees said, 

This man is not of GOD, because he 
keeps not the sabbath. Others said, 
How can a man that is a sinner do 
such miracles? [signs] And there 
was a division among them.

17. They say again to the blind [man] 
What say you of him, that he has 
opened your eyes? But he said, that
He is a prophet.

But with some this appears contrary to the law of the
representative church, whilst to others it appears to 
be of divine operation, so that they cannot agree on 
the subject, vs 16.

Again enquiry is made of those who have been 
reformed, what their opinion is, and they reply, that 
the restoration of spiritual understanding, which they
have received, is from the divine truth derived from 
the LORD'S humanity, vs 17.

18. Then the Jews did not believe 

concerning him that he had been 
blind, and received his sight, until 
they called the parents of him that 
had received his sight.

This however appears impossible to those who are of
the perverted church, and therefore they explore the 
causes of spiritual ignorance, that they may know 
whether it be hereditary, or not, and how, if 
hereditary, it is to be removed, vs 18, 19.

19. And they asked them, saying, Is 
this your son, who you say was 
born blind? how then does he now 
see?

134

20. His parents answered them, and 

said, We know that this is our son, 
and that he was born blind;

21. But how he now sees we know not;
or who has opened his eyes, we 
know not; he is of age, ask him; he 
shall speak for himself.

22. These things said his parents, 

because they feared the Jews; for 
the Jews had agreed already that, if 
any one should confess him [to be] 
the CHRIST, he should be put out of 
the synagogue.

23. Therefore said his parents, he is of 

age, ask him.

24. Then called they again the man 
who was blind, and said to him, 
Give glory to GOD; we know that 
this man is a sinner.

25. Then he answered, and said, 

Whether he be a sinner, I know not;
one thing I know, that being blind, I
now see.

26. But they said to him again, What 

did he to you? How opened he your
eyes?

27. He answered them, I have told you 
already, and you did not hear; 
wherefore would you hear again? 
Are you also willing to be his 
disciples?

28. Then they reviled him, and said, 
You are his disciple, but we are 
disciples of Moses.

29. We know that GOD spoke to Moses;
but this [fellow] we know not 
whence he is.

From which exploration they learn, that spiritual 
ignorance is hereditary, but how it has been removed,
or by whom, they cannot discover, except by 
consulting those who have experienced its removal, 
vs 20, 21.

In this exploration, however, a principle of evil was 
operative, since they had before determined to 
separate all from their communion, who should 
confess the LORD'S Humanity to be the divine truth, 
vs 22, 23.

Again therefore they apply themselves to those, who 
had received spiritual sight, exhorting them to 
acknowledge the invisible GOD to be the giver of it, 
and not to attribute it to the assumed Humanity, vs 
24.

But reply is made, that whatever doubt there may be 
concerning the LORD'S humanity, yet one thing is 
certain, that the LORD in that humanity has dissipated
ignorance, by giving the understanding of truth, vs 
25.

Still they are not satisfied with this reply, but 
continue to be inquisitive about the manner in which 
the understanding of truth was imparted, insomuch 
that they seem disposed to believe in the LORD'S 
humanity, vs 26, 27.

But their inquiry, it is found, was grounded in evil, 
for they scoff at those who believe, boasting that 
they themselves are true believers in the Word, 
which is from GOD, and insisting that in that Word 
nothing is taught concerning the LORD'S humanity, vs
28, 29.

135

30. The man answered, and said to 

them, Indeed this is wonderful, that
you know not whence he is, and 
has opened mine eyes.

To this it is replied, that they ought to be convinced 
of the divinity of the LORD'S humanity by its 
operation, since to give spiritual sight is a divine 
work, which cannot be worked but through divine 
omnipotence, vs 30, 31, 32, 33.

31. But we know that GOD hears not 
sinners; but if any one be a 
worshiper of GOD, and does his 
will, him he hears.

32. It never was heard that any one 
opened the eyes of one that was 
born blind.

33. Unless this [man] was of GOD, he 

could do nothing.

34. They answered, and said to him, 

You were wholly born in sins, and 
do you teach us? And they cast him
out.

35. JESUS heard that they had cast him 
out, and finding him, says to him, 
Do you believe in the Son of GOD?

36. He answered, and said, Who is he, 
LORD, that I might believe on him?

37. But JESUS said to him, You have 
both seen him, and it is he that 
speaks with you.

38. And he said, I believe, LORD; and 

he worshiped him.

39. And JESUS said, For judgement am 
I come into this world, that they 
who see not may see, and that they 
who see may be made blind.

But this reply is rejected with scorn, and imputed to 
an evil motive; therefore they, who are of the 
perverted church, disclaim all belief in the LORD'S 
Humanity, and all connection with those who profess
such belief, vs 34.

On the other hand, they, who have been reformed by 
the good of faith, are accepted of the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY, and are questioned concerning 
their faith, and are thus taught, that the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY is always visible to the eye of 
faith, and always instructing in truth, vs 35, 36, 37.

Thus their faith is perfected, and they acknowledge 
from the heart that the Humanity of the LORD is 
DIVINE, vs 38.

Which Humanity came into the world to reveal 
divine truth, which truth makes those to see, who 
relish wisdom from the LORD, and makes those blind
who are wise from themselves, thus who have the 
reputation of being learned, vs 39.

136

For blindness is of two kinds, namely the blindness 
arising from false principles, and that which comes 
from ignorance, and the former only is criminal, 
since to see and understand what is evil and still to 
do it, renders man guilty, vs 40, 41.

40. And [some] of the Pharisees who 
were with him heard these things, 
and said to him, Are we blind also?

41. JESUS said to them, If you were 

blind, you would not have sin; but 
now you say, We see, therefore 
your sin remains.

Exposition.

Verses 1 to 33. And passing by, he saw a man blind from [his] birth, &c. &c. It is impossible for 
any one to understand the particulars of this history, unless he be acquainted with the internal or 
spiritual sense of the Word, in which sense by one blind from birth, are meant those who are born 
out of the church, and thence incapable of knowing any thing concerning the LORD, and of being 
instructed from the Word; by the clay which the Lord made of spittle on the ground, is signified 
reformation by truths derived from the sense of the letter of the Word, ground denoting the church 
where the Word is, clay denoting the ultimate Divine [principle] forming, the anointing of which on
the eyes of the blind, denotes giving by it the understanding of truth; the fish-pool of Siloam also 
signifies the Word in the letter; to be there washed denotes to be purified from falses and evils. That
these things are understood by what is said in this history, has been hitherto undiscovered. That 
ground signifies the church, see AC 566, 10570. That clay signifies good from which truth is 
derived, thus good forming, AC 1300, 6669. That the fish-pool of Siloam signifies the Word in the 
sense of the letter, is evident from Isaiah 8:6. And in general the fish-pools which were at 
Jerusalem, Isaiah 22:9, 11. AE 239.

Verse 4. I must work the works of him that sent me, whilst it is day, &c. In this passage day denotes 
the time and state when there is good and truth, but night when evil and the false prevail. AC 2354. 
AE 98.

It is the first time of the church, which is understood by day, for then truth is received, because 
mankind are principled in good; and it is the last time which is meant by night, for then nothing of 
truth is received, because they are not principled in good. AC 6000. See also AR 922.

Verses 6, 7. When he had thus said, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, &c. &c. 
This was done, because the reformation of man was represented, who is born in ignorance of truth, 
and to teach that reformation is effected, by the good of faith, which is clay. AC 6669.

By the blind man in this history are represented those who can see nothing of truth, because they 
are sensual, and who therefore only see those things which appear before the external senses, hence
fallacies in the place of truths, to confirm which fallacies they also apply the sense of the letter of 
the Word; by clay made of spittle is signified sensual truth, such as is intended for persons of this 
description in the Word; by the waters of the lake or fish-pool of Siloam, are signified the truths of 
the Word, for all things were significative even to the waters in Jerusalem; and by washing is 
signified to purify from fallacies, which in themselves are falses; hence it may be manifest what the
above things signify in a series; for all the miracles and actions of the LORD, when he was in the 
world, signified divine celestial and spiritual things, that is, such things as are of heaven and the 
church, and this by reason that they were divine, and the Divine [principle] always operates in 

137

ultimates from first principles, and thus in fullness; ultimates are such things in the world as appear 
before the eyes; hence it is that the LORD spoke, and that the Word was written by such things in 
nature as correspond. AE 475.

Verse 39. And Jesus said, For judgement am I come into this world, that they who see not may see, 
&c. &c. They that see denotes those that think themselves intelligent above all others, concerning 
whom it is said, that they shall become blind, that is, will not receive faith; that not to see, or to be 
blind, is predicated of those who are in false principles, also of those who are in ignorance, see AC 
2383. AC 3865.

To come into the world for judgement denotes to reveal divine truth, which truth makes those to see
who relish wisdom from the LORD, and makes those blind who are wise from themselves, thus who 
have the reputation of being learned. AC 9857.

Verses 40, 41. And some of the Pharisees who were with him, said to him, Are we blind also? &c. 
&c. By blind in this passage are meant those who are blind in two senses, namely those who are in 
a false principle, and those who are in ignorance of truth; with those who are within the church, and
know what truth is, blindness is falsity; but with those who do not know what truth is, as is the case 
with those who are out of the church, blindness is ignorance of truth, and they are blameless. AC 
2383.

To see and to understand what is evil, and still to do it, renders man guilty, as the LORD teaches in 
John, "JESUS said to the Pharisees, if you were blind, you would not have sin; but now you say, we 
see, therefore your sin remains," AC 9069. See also DP 234, CL 348.

But they, who do not know any thing concerning the LORD, as is the case with the generality in the 
two quarters of the globe, Asia and Africa, and likewise in the Indies, if they believe in one GOD, 
and live according to the precepts of their religion, by virtue of their faith and life are saved, for 
imputation is to those who know, and not to those who are ignorant, as it is not imputed as a crime 
to the blind when they stumble; for the LORD says, "If you were blind, you would not have sin, but 
now you say, we see, therefore your sin remains." TCR 107.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 3. Jesus answered, Neither has this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the works of God might be 
made manifest in him. From the former part of these words, if separated from connection with the latter, it 
would appear to be the declaration of JESUS CHRIST, that neither the blind man, nor his parents, had ever 
committed sin; whereas if the former part be read in connection with the latter, no such declaration is made: 
For the sense resulting from such connection is, not that the man and is parents had never sinned, but that 
they have not so sinned as to be out of the reach of divine mercy and operation; in other words, they had not 
so sinned, but that the works of God might be made manifest.

138

John Chapter 10

Chapter 10

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. VERILY, verily, I say to you, he 
that enters not in by the door into 
the sheepfold, but climbs up some 
other way, the same is a thief and a 
robber.

THE LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY teaches, that 
whoever does not approach him in that humanity, by 
faith and love, destroys in himself the goods of faith 
by falses, and thus seeks to establish his own merit, 
vs 1.

2. But he that enters in by the door, is 

the shepherd of the sheep.

Whereas all they, who by faith and love approach 
him in his humanity, cherish and keep alive in 
themselves those goods, vs 2.

3. To him the porter opens, and the 
sheep hear his voice; and he calls 
his own sheep by name, and leads 
them out.

4. And when he puts forth his own 

sheep, he goes before them, and the
sheep follow him, because they 
know his voice.

5. But a stranger they will not follow, 
but will fly from him, because they 
know not the voice of strangers.

6. This parable spoke JESUS to them, 
but they knew not what things they 
were which he spoke to them.

7. Then said JESUS again to them, 

Verily, verily, I say to you, that I 
am the door of the sheep.

8. All whoever that have come before 
me are thieves and robbers; but the 
sheep did not hear them.

Therefore their interiors are opened to the life of 
heaven, and they obey the divine precepts, and are 
gifted with heaven according to the good of love and 
faith, and are led of the LORD, and not of themselves,
vs 3.

And in all their operations they have respect to the 
LORD, and acknowledge the divinity of his humanity,
because they obey his precepts, and shun all false 
principles, as not being in agreement with their love, 
vs 4, 5.

That this teaching is not understood by the men of 
the perverted church, therefore they are expressly 
taught again, that the only entrance to the life of 
heaven is through the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, and
that all who exalt themselves above that HUMANITY, 
destroy in themselves the life of heaven, and are 
opposed to all heavenly good, vs 6, 7, 8.

9.

I am the door: by me if any one 
enter in, he shall be saved, and 
shall go in and go out, and find 
pasture.

Whereas they, who by faith and love acknowledge 
the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY, are made 
partakers of his good and truth in every state of life 
both internal and external, vs 9.

139

For as evil and false principles deprive good and 
truth of their proper life, so the LORD in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY was manifested for the purpose of 
communicating heavenly life to every good and 
truth, and this in a greater fullness than had ever 
been before experienced, vs 10.

Therefore the LORD teaches and leads to all truth, 
whilst by temptation combats, through his own 
proper power, he unites his divinity to his humanity, 
vs 11.

Whereas they, who seek their own glory in what they
do, having no regard to the good of others, fall in 
temptations, and are deprived of all heavenly good, 
inasmuch as they look more at recompense than at 
that good, vs 12, 13.

But the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY imparts 
heavenly good, acknowledging all who receive that 
good, as his children, and being reciprocally 
acknowledged by them as their FATHER, vs 14.

In like manner as the divinity acknowledges the 
humanity, and the humanity reciprocally 
acknowledges the divinity, and by enduring 
temptations unites itself with the divinity, vs 15.

Thus effecting the salvation of the spiritual, or those 
who are in the good of faith, and who, through the 
LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY will make one with the 
celestial, or those who are in the good of love, vs 16.

For by temptations, inmost and plenary union of the 
divinity with the humanity, and of the humanity with 
the divinity, was effected until the humanity became 
divine, vs 17, 18.

10. The thief comes not but to steal, 
and to kill, and to destroy; I am 
come that they may have life, and 
may have [it] abundantly.

11. I am the good shepherd: the good 

shepherd lays down his soul for the
sheep.

12. But he that is an hireling, and not 

the shepherd, whose own the sheep 
are not, sees the wolf coming, and 
leaves the sheep, and flies; and the 
wolf seizes them, and scatters the 
sheep.

13. But the hireling flees, because he is
an hireling, and cares not for the 
sheep.

14. I am the good shepherd, and know 
my own, and am known of my 
own;

15. As the FATHER knows me, I also 

know the FATHER; and I lay down 
my soul for the sheep.

16. And other sheep I have which are 
not of this fold; them also I must 
bring, and they shall hear my voice,
and there shall be one flock, one 
shepherd.

17. For this does my FATHER love me, 
because I lay down my soul, that I 
may take it again.

18. No one takes it from me, but I lay it
down of myself: I have power to 
lay it down, and I have power to 
take it again. This commandment 
have I received of my FATHER.

140

19. There was a division therefore 

again among the Jews, on account 
of these sayings.

20. But many of them said, He has a 
devil, and is mad; why hear you 
him?

21. Others said, These are not the 

sayings of him that has a devil; can 
a devil open the eyes of the blind?

22. But it was at Jerusalem, the feast of

dedication, and it was winter.

23. And JESUS walked in the temple, in 

the porch of Solomon.

24. Then came the Jews round about 

him, and said to him, How long do 
you hold our soul in suspense? If 
you be the CHRIST, tell us plainly.

25. JESUS answered them, I said to you,
and you believe not; the works 
which I do in the name of my 
FATHER, these bear witness of me.

26. But you believe not, for you are not

of my sheep, as I said to you.

27. My sheep hear my voice, and I 
know them, and they follow me.

28. And I give to them eternal life, and 
they shall never perish, and no one 
shall pluck them out of my hand.

29. My Father, who has given to me, is 
greater than all, and no one can 
pluck out of the hand of my 
FATHER.

30. I and the FATHER are one.

That these truths effect a work of judgement in the 
perverted church, by separating those, who reject and
blaspheme the LORD'S humanity, from those who 
acknowledge its divine power manifested in the 
restoration of the understanding of truth, vs 19, 20, 
21.

So that some in the church are in the warmth of 
heavenly affection and life, whilst others are in the 
warmth of infernal affection and life, and the LORD 
in his humanity was instilling introductory truths of 
wisdom, vs 22, 23.

On which occasion, an apparently ardent desire is 
kindled in the perverted church, to know the truth 
respecting the LORD'S humanity, and they are 
instructed, that the truth has been declared to them, 
but they did not receive it, which truth is, that the 
operation of the LORD'S humanity proved it to be 
derived from the divinity, vs 24, 25.

This truth however they did not admit, because they 
were not principled in good, for all they, who are 
principled in good receive the doctrine of the LORD'S 
DIVINE HUMANITY, and are acknowledged by that 
Humanity, and are obedient to its guidance, vs 26, 27

They receive also from that humanity the life of 
heavenly love, and are never separated from it, 
because there is no power which is able to separate 
them, since the divine good, by which they are 
drawn to the DIVINE HUMANITY, is above every other
power, and one with that humanity, vs 28, 29, 30.

141

That they, who are of the perverted church, oppose 
the above divine truths with falses, and being 
questioned why they thus set themselves against the 
operation of the divine good, they reply, that they do 
not oppose the divine good, but the blasphemous 
idea that humanity can be divine, vs 31, 32, 33.

But this humanity on the contrary teaches, that there 
is no blasphemy in calling itself divine, since the 
HOLY WORD, which is eternal truth, ascribes divinity 
to those who receive it, and therefore divinity ought 
more especially to be ascribed to that humanity 
which proceeded from it, and which is it, vs 34, 35, 
36.

And the humanity ought to be judged from its 
operation, since if its operation be divine, it is a 
manifest proof that it has reciprocal union with the 
divine good, vs 37, 38.

That this reasoning is not apprehended by those who 
are of the perverted church, and therefore they again 
seek to destroy the LORD'S humanity, but in vain, vs 
39.

For the LORD in his humanity applies himself to the 
Gentiles, who are principled in introductory truths, 
and amongst them he establishes his church, being 
received by them with affection, and with faith, not 
grounded in miraculous testimony, but in the love of 
truth for its own sake, vs 40, 41, 42.

31. Then the Jews took again stones, 

that they might stone him.

32. JESUS answered them, Many good 
works have I showed you from my 
FATHER; for which of those works 
do you stone me?

33. The Jews answered him, saying, for
a good work we do not stone you, 
but for blasphemy, and because 
you, being a man, make yourself 
GOD.

34. JESUS answered them, Is it not 

written in your law, I said, you are 
gods?

35. If he called them gods, to whom 

the Word of GOD was [spoken] and 
the Scripture cannot be dissolved;

36. Say you of him, whom the FATHER 
has sanctified and sent into the 
world, You blaspheme, because I 
said, I am the Son of GOD?

37. If I do not the works of my FATHER,

believe me not.

38. But if I do, though you believe not 
me, believe the works, that you 
may know and believe that the 
FATHER is in me, and I in him.

39. Then they sought again to lay hold 
of him, and he escaped out of their 
hand;

40. And went away again beyond 

Jordan, into the place where John 
was at first baptizing; and he abode
there.

41. And many came to him, and said, 
John indeed did no miracle, [sign] 
but all things which John said of 
this [man] are true.

42. And many believed in him there.

142

Exposition.

Verses 1, 2. Verily, verily, I say to you, he that enters not in by the door into the sheep-fold, but 
climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber, &c. &c. Door in the Word signifies that 
which introduces, or lets in either to truth, or to good, or to the LORD; hence it is, that door also 
signifies truth itself, likewise good itself, and also the LORD himself, for truth leads to good, and 
good to the LORD; such things were represented by the door and vails of the tabernacle, and also of 
the temple. AC 2356.

Thief in the above passage denotes one who by falses destroys the goods of faith. AC 9125.

Thief also denotes the evil of merit, for he who takes from the LORD what is his, and claims it to 
himself, is called a thief; this evil, inasmuch as it closes the way, and prevents good and truth from 
the LORD flowing in, is said to kill and to destroy. AC 5135.

From the above verses it appears, that the LORD himself ought to be approached, to the intent that 
any one may be saved, and that he who approaches him is the shepherd of the sheep, and he who 
does not approach him is a thief and a robber. DP 230.

All, who do not enter in by the door, that is, by the LORD, are called thieves and robbers; but they, 
who enter in by the door, that is, by the LORD, are called the shepherds of the sheep; therefore, my 
friend, go to the LORD, and shun evils as sins, and reject the doctrine of faith alone, and then your 
understanding will be opened, and you will see wonderful things, and be affected by them. AR 914.

To enter into the sheep-fold is to enter into the church, and likewise into heaven; the reason why it 
denotes also into heaven, is, because they make one, and nothing else makes heaven but the church 
there; wherefore as the LORD is the bridegroom and husband of the church, so likewise he is the 
bridegroom and husband of heaven. TCR 380.

That to enter in by the door is to enter in by the LORD, is evident, for it is said, I am the door of the 
sheep; to enter in by the LORD is to go to him, to acknowledge him, to believe in him, and to love 
him, as he himself teaches in several passages; thus, and no otherwise, man is let into heaven, 
wherefore he teaches, "By me if any one enter in, he shall be saved, and he who climbs up some 
other way is a thief and a robber." AE 208. See also AE 248.

Verse 3. To him the porter opens, and the sheep hear his voice; and he calls his own sheep by 
name, and leads them out. By sheep in the Word are understood those who are principled in truths 
derived from good, thus who are principled in faith derived from charity; by voice is not here 
understood voice, but the divine proceeding, which is divine truth, and which flows in with those 
who are in the good of charity, and gives them intelligence, and so far as they are principled in 
good, gives wisdom; intelligence is of truth, and wisdom is of truth derived from good. AE 261.

To call the sheep by name, is to teach and lead every one who is in the good of charity, according to
the state of his love and wisdom. DP 230.

Sheep denote those who are principled in the good of charity and of faith; to hear a voice denotes to
obey the precepts; to call by name, and lead them out, denotes to gift with heaven according to the 
good of love and of faith, for a name, when predicated of men, is their quality as to love and faith. 
AC 9310.

143

The celestial are those of whom the LORD says, "He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them 
out, and when he leads out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, because 
they know his voice;" but the spiritual are those of whom the LORD says, Other sheep I have, which
are not of this fold. It is the good of love which makes the celestial church, but the good of faith 
which makes the spiritual church. AC 2669.

Verse 4. And when he puts forth his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, 
because they know his voice. By following the LORD is here meant to acknowledge his divinity, and 
to obey him; for it is said that he goes before his own sheep, and the sheep follow Mm, and they 
know and hear his voice; where to know and hear the voice of the LORD, signifies to do his 
precepts. AE 864.

Verse 5. But a stranger they will not follow, because they know not the voice of strangers. By the 
voice of strangers is here denoted what is false. AC 9926.

Verse 8. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, &c. Priests, who teach truths, and by
them lead to good, of life, and thus to the LORD, are the good shepherds of the sheep; but they who 
teach, and do not lead to good of life, and thereby to the LORD, are evil shepherds, who are called 
by the LORD thieves and robbers. AC 10794.

It may be said, that on account of the sensual idea respecting redemption, and thence respecting 
GOD, in supposing redemption to consist merely in the passion of the cross, The ways to heaven, 
which are the ways to the LORD GOD the Saviour, are beset with thieves and robbers, John 10:1, 8, 
9, and that the doors of the temple are thrown down, and thus have entered dragons, owls, and the 
tzjim and jiim have entered and made a dreadful discord. TCR 133.

Verse 9. By me if any one enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and go out, and find pasture. 
By entering in and going out is signified in every state of good and truth in worship, wherefore it 
signifies further to be led of the LORD as to every state of life, consequently to think and will what 
is good from a free principle, that is from love and faith, which are from the LORD, for those 
principles make freedom. The reason of the above signification of going in and going out is 
grounded in representatives in the other life; for in that life they go, walk, make progress, enter in 
and go out, as in the world, but all those things, are performed according to the state of the life of 
their thoughts and affections; hence it is evident that all things, which appertain to motion, signify 
those things which appertain to states of life, consequently that to go in and go out signify every 
state of life; thus the state of the thing treated of from beginning to end. AC 9927.

That pasture denotes good and truth, which recreate and sustain the soul or spirit of man, is plain 
from the above words of the LORD, where pasture denotes the goods and truths belonging to those 
who acknowledge the LORD, and seek life from him alone. AC 6078.

To find pasture denotes to be taught, illustrated, and nourished in divine truths. AR 914.

Verse 10. The thief comes not but to steal, and to kill, and to destroy; I am come that they may have
life, &c. To kill denotes to destroy the life of faith; wherefore it is said, I am come that they may 
have life. AC 6767. See also above in the extracts for verses 1, 2, where it is said, that the evil of 
merit, represented by the thief, inasmuch as it closes the way and prevents good and truth from the 
LORD flowing in, is said to kill and to destroy.

144

By life is here meant the life of heaven belonging to man, which is also called eternal life, and 
which is derived from the LORD alone, who is therefore said to be alive and living; and inasmuch as
he is life, therefore all have life from him, as he also teaches in John, I am come that they may have
life. The reason why life signifies the LORD, and hence salvation and heaven, is, because the all of 
life is from one single fountain, and that one single fountain of life is the LORD, whilst angels and 
men are only forms recipient of life from him; the life itself, which proceeds from the LORD, and 
which fills heaven and the world, is the life of his love, which appears in heaven as light, and which
illuminates the minds of the angels, and gives them to understand and to be wise. AE 186.

Verse 12. But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, sees the wolf coming, &c. Hirelings, who 
do not think of recompense in heaven, but of recompense in the world, thus who do good for the 
sake of gain, whether it be honour or wealth, thus for the sake of themselves and the world, are 
natural infernal men; these hirelings are understood in the above passage. AE 695.

Verse 15. As the. Father knows me, I also know the Father; and I lay down my soul for the sheep. 
By these words is meant that the LORD united the Divine [principle] to the Human by temptations 
through his own proper power. AC 3381.

Verse 16. Other sheep I have, which are not of this fold, &c. It is written in Ezekiel, "JEHOVAH said, 
Son of Man, take to you one piece of wood, and write upon it for Judah and for the sons of Israel 
his companions, and take one piece of wood, and write upon it for Joseph, the piece of wood of 
Ephraim, and of all the house of Israel his companions; and join them together, one to the other for 
yourself into one piece of wood, that they may be both one in my hand," Ez 37:16, 17, treating of 
the celestial and spiritual kingdom of the LORD; the celestial kingdom is Judah; the spiritual 
kingdom is Joseph, both which kingdoms were no longer to be two, but one; they were also made 
into one by the coming of the LORD into the world; that by the coming of the LORD the spiritual 
were saved, see AC 2661, 2716, 2833, 2834; these are they of whom the LORD speaks in John, 
"Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring with me, and they will hear 
my voice, and will become one flock and one shepherd. AC 3969. See also 7035. AE 433.

Verses 17, 18. For this does my Father love me, because I lay down my soul, that I may take it 
again, &c. &c. The arcanum, which lies concealed in these words, cannot be seen by any one 
unless by him who is acquainted with the nature of temptations, by which man is regenerated; for 
man in temptations is held in his freedom, from which it appears to him as if he sought from 
himself, yea, in temptations man has a stronger spiritual freedom than out of them, inasmuch as it is
more interior; for all freedom is of love, wherefore man then fights from the love of truth, and 
thence from the love of eternal life. From these few observations, it may in some measure be seen 
what the above words of t e LORD involve, namely that he fought from his own freedom, and at 
length laid down his soul, to the intent that he might do all things from his own proper power, and 
hence from himself might be made justice, which could not have been effected but from his free 
principle; hence it is said, "I lay down my soul of myself, I have the power of laying it down, and 
the power of taking it again; this commandment I have received of my FATHER." AE 900.

That the LORD himself by his own proper power governed in a state of temptations, that is, 
overcame the hells which were in evils and falses, and thus glorified or made divine the Human 
[principle] in himself, is manifest from the above words, I lay down my soul, &c. AC 5045.

The LORD admitted into himself temptations, that he might expel thence all that was merely human,
and thus until nothing remained but what was divine; that the LORD admitted temptations into 

145

himself, even the last, which was that of the cross, may be manifest from his words "No one takes 
my soul from, me, hut I lay it down of myself; I have power to lay it down, and I have power to 
take it again." AC 2816.

That the LORD, in the passion of the cross, was left to himself, is manifest from this his exclamation
on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me; and likewise from these his words, No 
one takes my soul from me, &c. from which words it may be manifest, that the LORD did not suffer 
as to divinity but as to humanity, and that on this occasion inmost and thus plenary union was 
effected. TCR 126.

Verses 28, 29. And I give to them eternal life, and they shall never perish, and no one can pluck 
them out of my hand. My Father who has given to me, is greater than all, &c. &c. The LORD here 
speaks of the FATHER as of another [Being] saying, No one can pluck the sheep out of the hands of 
my Father; and yet, lest they should believe that the Father and he were two, he says, verse 30, I 
and my Father are One; and lest they should believe that they were one only by love, he adds, That
you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the Father; hence it may be manifest, 
that the LORD by the FATHER meant himself, or the Divine [principle] in himself from conception; 
and that by the Son, whom the FATHER sent, he meant his Human [principle] for this was sent into 
the world, by being conceived of GOD the FATHER, and born of a virgin. AE 852.

That they who are conjoined to the LORD by love and faith, receive eternal life, that is, the life of 
heaven, which is salvation, is evident from the above words, The sheep follow me, and I give them 
eternal life, nor shall they ever perish. AE 349.

Verse 30. I and the Father are One. From these words it is evident, that he was not another [Being] 
separate from the FATHER, although he spoke of the FATHER as of another, and this on account of 
reciprocal unification, which was to be effected, and which was effected. Hence it is, that in 
heaven, they know no other FATHER but the LORD, because the FATHER is in him, and he is one with 
the FATHER, and when they see him, they see the FATHER. AC 2004.

Verse 38. That you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in him. With those, who 
are only in the science of a thing, and thence in thought concerning it, to know is to understand; but 
with those who are in faith, to know is to believe; whilst with those who are principled in love, to 
know is to perceive. AC 10155.

From the expression, That the Father is in me and I in the Father, it may be manifest what is the 
quality of the union of the Divine [principle] and the human in the LORD, namely that it is mutual 
and reciprocal, which union is what is called the divine marriage, from which descends the 
heavenly marriage, which is the kingdom itself of the LORD in the heavens. AC 2803.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 1. He that enters not in by the door into the sheep-fold, but climbs up some other way, the same is a 
thief and a robber. According to the literal sense of these words, it is not easy to distinguish between a thief 
and a robber; but according to the spiritual sense the distinction is both evident and edifying, because a thief
denotes one who claims truth to himself as his own property, not acknowledging it to be the LORD'S; whereas
a robber is one who claims good to himself, and thus alienates it from its DIVINE PROPRIETOR.

Verses 3 and 4. And he calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out; and when he puts forth his own 
sheep, &c. The LORD here makes a distinction between leading out his sheep, and putting them forth, in 

146

order to mark the two distinct states of regenerate life; first, when man is under the instruction of truth, and 
is thus led to good; and secondly, when he has attained to a state of good, and from that state goes forth to 
the discharge of all those duties which truth teaches to be duties, and which good delights in performing.

Verse 8. All whoever that have come before me are thieves and robbers, &c. It would seem from the letter of 
these words, as if the BLESSED JESUS condemned all, who, at any period of the world, had assumed the office
of teachers or instructors in the church. But according to the spiritual meaning of the words, no such 
condemnation is pronounced. For the spiritual sense teaches, that coming before him is not to be understood 
in regard to the time in which they lived, but in regard to the spirit in which they taught, and that thus to 
come before the BLESSED JESUS, means to exalt themselves above him, or to set their own understandings 
above his, consequently to teach from themselves, and not from the Word. All such therefore are here called 
thieves and robbers, because they ascribe both truth and good to themselves, and not to the LORD.

Verse 11. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd, &c. What is here rendered good, is expressed in the 
original Greek by the term kalos, which properly signifies beautiful, and thus suggests an idea distinct from 
the term agathos, or good, for what is beautiful, or kalon, is predicated of truth, whereas what is good, or 
agathon, is predicated of good.

Verse 11. The good shepherd lays down his soul for the sheep. What is here rendered lays down, is expressed
in the original by the term tithesin, from tithemi, which properly signifies to put, or to place, but indicates 
nothing like laying down, rather suggesting the idea of communication, or of imparting, and thus possibly 
denoting that the BLESSED JESUS is willing to communicate or impart his soul, [the whole of his life both of 
goodness and truth] to all his faithful followers.

Verse 12. And the wolf seizes them, and scatters the sheep. The intelligent reader will not fail to note in this 
passage the reference to the infernal marriage of what is evil and what is false, which is so pointedly 
described; for the term seizes, as here applied to the wolf, is intended to mark the violent operation of evil, 
whilst the term scatters marks with equal force the deceitful operation of all those false principles and 
persuasions which proceed from evil.

Verse 15. And I lay down my soul for the sheep. See note above at 5:11, concerning the expression I lay 
down, which also occurs again at verses 17 and 18.

Verse 35. If he called them gods, to whom the Word of God was [spoken] and the Scripture cannot be 
dissolved, &c. What is here rendered was [spoken] is expressed in the original by the term egeneto, from 
ginomai, which properly signifies to be born, or produced, thus denoting the birth or production of the Word
of GOD in its literal or external expression. Accordingly the LORD here makes a distinction between what he 
calls the Word of God, and the Scripture, because the Word of God involves in it the whole of the divine truth
proceeding from the divine good, whereas the Scripture denotes this truth in its written state, or as it is 
expressed in its letter or history, on which account it is said of it, that it cannot be dissolved [or loosened, as 
the original Greek implies] to denote that it cannot be separated from its internal sense, or that Divine WORD 
from which it has birth.

147

John Chapter 11

Chapter 11

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. BUT there was a certain sick 

[person] Lazarus, from Bethany, of 
the village of Mary and Martha her 
sister.

THAT the good of life in the church amongst the 
Gentiles was infested with evils and falses, being in 
external truth, derived from the affections of good 
and truth, vs 1.

2. But Mary was she who anointed 

the LORD with ointment, and wiped 
his feet with her hair, whose 
brother, Lazarus, was sick.

And that from the affection of good they 
acknowledged the LORD with love, and from truth 
grounded in that love had faith in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY, vs 2.

3. Then the sisters sent to him, saying,
LORD, behold, he whom you love is
sick.

4. But JESUS hearing, said, This 

sickness is not to death, but for the 
glory of GOD, that the Son of GOD 
might be glorified by it.

Therefore they confess to the LORD the infestation 
under which they labour, and are consoled with the 
assurance that it would not terminate in their eternal 
destruction, but would tend only to make more 
manifest the divine truth of the LORD'S DIVINE 
HUMANITY, to which the affections of good and truth,
and also the good of life thence derived, are 
conjoined by love, vs 3, 4, 5.

5. But JESUS loved Martha, and her 

sister, and Lazarus.

6. When therefore, he heard that he 
was sick, then he abode still two 
days in the place where he was.

7. Then after that he says to the 
disciples, Let us go into Judea 
again.

8. The disciples say to him, Rabbi, the
Jews just now sought to stone you, 
and go you thither again?

9.

JESUS answered, Are there not 
twelve hours of the day? If any one
walk in the day, he does not 
stumble, because he sees the light 
of this world.

10. But if any one walk in the night, he
stumbles, because the light is not in
him.

Nevertheless it is necessary that the infestation 
should continue for a longer period, both as to good 
and as to truth, before it is removed, after which 
period preparation is made by the divine good and 
truth for its removal, notwithstanding the opposition 
of false persuasions, vs 6, 7, 8.

On which occasion the church is admonished 
concerning all the several states of truth, and 
concerning the necessity of living according to them,
since by so doing man escapes all false persuasions, 
whereas by neglecting to do so, he is ensnared in 
them, vs 9, 10.

148

11. These things he said, and after this 
he says to them, Lazarus, our 
friend, sleeps; but I go, that I may 
awake him.

In which latter case the good of the church is 
immersed in mere natural ideas, whilst it is the 
divine intention to communicate spiritual ideas, vs 
11.

12. Then his disciples said, LORD, if he 

sleep, he will be preserved.

13. But JESUS spoke of his death, but 
they thought that he spoke of the 
sleeping of sleep.

14. Then said JESUS to them plainly, 

Lazarus is dead.

15. And I rejoice on your account that I

was not there, that you may 
believe; but let us go to him.

16. Then said Thomas, who is called 
Didymus, to his fellow-disciples, 
Let us also go, that we may die 
with him.

17. Then JESUS coming, found that he 
had lain four days already in the 
sepulchre.

18. But Bethany was near to Jerusalem,

about fifteen furlongs off.

19. And many of the Jews came to 

those about Martha and Mary, to 
comfort them concerning their 
brother.

20. Then Martha, when she heard that 
JESUS was coming, went to meet 
him; but Mary sat in the house.

21. Then said Martha to JESUS, LORD, 
if you hadst been here, my brother 
had not died.

22. But even now I know, that 

whatever you shall ask of GOD, 
GOD will give to you.

And such natural ideas are supposed to be conducive
to spiritual good, whereas the divine truth teaches 
that, when separated from spiritual ideas, they 
destroy that good, vs 12, 13, 14.

Nevertheless, out of this destruction the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY provides blessing for the church, 
by confirming the principle of a divine faith, when 
by divine presence and operation the good is revived,
vs 15.

Inspiring thus a desire in those, who are principled in
the truths of the church, to experience the same 
revival, vs 16.

That at the LORD'S coming to establish the church, it 
is discovered that all the good of life is perished, 
even to the conjunction of the principle of evil and of
what is false, vs 17.

And that even in the vastated church are some, who 
are made sensible of this mischief, and who attach 
themselves to the affections of truth and good in 
order to remedy it, vs 18, 19.

On which occasion they first apply themselves to the
LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY under the impulse of the 
affection of truth, whilst the affection of good is 
apparently quiescent, vs 20.

Confessing from the former affection, that the 
destruction of the good of life in the church is a 
consequence of not cherishing the influence of 
divine good, and yet convinced that if the divine 
good be implored through the DIVINE HUMANITY, in 
which it dwells, the good of life may still be restored,
vs 21, 22.

149

Wherefore they are comforted with the persuasion, 
instilled by the DIVINE HUMANITY, that the good of 
life shall be restored, and this not at the end of the 
church, but at its commencement, since the LORD in 
his DIVINE HUMANITY is the all both of truth and of 
good in the church, and therefore by faith in him, 
even they, who were destitute of good, receive good, 
and if to their faith they join a good life, that good 
can never perish, vs 23, 24, 25, 26.

23. JESUS said to her, Your brother shall

rise again.

24. Martha says to him, I know that he 
shall rise again in the resurrection 
in the last day.

25. JESUS said to her, I am the 

resurrection and the life; he that 
believes in me, though he were 
dead, yet shall he live.

26. And whoever lives and believes in 
me, shall never die. Believe you 
this?

27. She says to him, Yea, LORD, I 

believe that you are the CHRIST, the
Son of GOD, which should come 
into the world.

Hence the faith of the church in the LORD'S DIVINE 
HUMANITY is confirmed, together with the devout 
acknowledgement that his coming into the world had
been predicted, vs 27.

28. And when she had said these things
she went away, and called Mary her
sister privately, saying, The Master 
is come, and calls you.

The affection of good also is excited, under a sense 
of the divine presence and tenderness, and is 
elevated to conjunction with the LORD'S DIVINE 
HUMANITY, vs 28, 29.

29. As soon as she heard, she arose 

quickly, and came to him.

30. But JESUS was not yet come into 
the village, but was in the place 
where Martha met him.

31. The Jews then, which were with 
her in the house, and comforted 
her, seeing Mary that she arose up 
hastily and went out, followed her, 
saying, She goes to the sepulchre to
weep there.

Nevertheless, conjunction was not yet worked with 
the exterior truths of the church, but only with the 
affection of truth, and with those who were in the 
affection of good, and obedient to that affection, vs 
30, 31.

32. Then when Mary came where 

JESUS was, seeing him, she fell at 
his feet, saying to him, LORD, if 
you hadst been here, my brother 
had not died.

Which conjunction produces deep humiliation, 
together with the acknowledgement of the divinity of
the LORD'S humanity, and that the destruction of the 
good of life in the church is owing to a want of that 
acknowledgement, vs 32.

150

33. JESUS then, when he saw her 
weeping, and the Jews also 
weeping who came with her, 
groaned in spirit and was troubled.

34. And said, Where have you laid 

him? They say to him, LORD, come 
and see.

35. JESUS wept.

36. Then said the Jews, Behold how he

loved him.

37. But some of them said, Could not 
this [man] who opened the eyes of 
the blind, have caused that even 
this [man] should not have died?

38. JESUS then again groaning in 

himself, comes to the sepulchre; 
but it was a cave, and a stone lay 
upon it.

39. JESUS says, Take away the stone. 
Martha, the sister of him that was 
dead, says to him, LORD, by this 
time he stinks, for he has been 
[dead] four days.

40. JESUS says to her, Said I not to you,
that if you would believe, you 
should see the glory of GOD?

Hence the divine compassion and tenderness is the 
more excited, together with inquisition into the state 
of the good of life in the church, vs 33, 34, 35.

Which is regarded by some as a proof of the divine 
love towards that good, whilst others are perplexed 
with the thought, that if that good had been an object 
of divine regard, it would then have been preserved 
from destruction, vs 36, 37.

Still the divine compassion applies itself to the state 
of that good, discovering it to be in an obscure state, 
in consequence of the prevalence of false 
persuasions, and therefore first requires that those 
false persuasions should be removed, vs 38, and part 
of 39.

Nevertheless they, who are in the affection of truth, 
think it impossible to restore the good of life, when it
is so far destroyed as to be succeeded by the 
conjunction of what is evil and false; but they are 
reproved for their want of faith in the divine promise,
vs latter part of the 39th, 40.

41. Then they took away the stone 
[from the place] where the dead 
was laid. But JESUS lifted up his 
eyes, and said, FATHER, I thank you 
that you have heard me.

Therefore they renounce all false persuasions, on 
which occasion they are instructed, that the LORD 
united his humanity to his divinity for the sake of 
mankind, that they might have access to him in his 
humanity thus glorified, or made divine, vs 41, 42.

42. But I know that you hearest me 
always; but because of the 
multitude standing by I said [it] 
that they may believe that you have
sent me.

151

In which humanity he is ever operative by his divine 
truth, proceeding from his divine good, to vivify in 
his church the good of life, which being thus 
vivified, is at first destitute of freedom both internal 
and external, by reason of the false persuasions with 
which it was infested, but presently recovers that 
freedom through instruction in the Divine Word, vs 
43, 44.

Hence many in the perverted church, who were in 
the affection of good, and in illustration from the 
LORD, become accepting of faith in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY, whilst others neglect such faith, and 
excite persecution against it, vs 45, 46.

On which occasion they, who are more principled in 
self-love and hypocritical worship, unite their 
endeavours to check the operation of the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY, under an alarm for their own 
authority, vs 47, 48.

In which persecution they encourage themselves by 
the prediction, that it is of divine appointment, that 
the LORD in his Humanity should be made a 
sacrifice, not for the Jewish nation only, but for all 
the faithful throughout the earth, that they may 
become his church and people, vs 49, 50, 51, 52.

43. And saying these things, he cried 
out with a great voice, Lazarus, 
come forth.

44. And he that was dead came forth, 
bound feet and hands with grave-
clothes, and his face was bound 
about with a napkin. JESUS says to 
them, Loose him, and let him go.

45. Then many of the Jews who came 
to Mary, and saw the things which 
JESUS did, believed in him.

46. But some of them went away to the
Pharisees, and told them what 
things JESUS had done.

47. Then the chief priests and Pharisees
gathered together a council, and 
said, What do we? For this man 
does many signs.

48. If we let him thus alone, all will 
believe in him, and the Romans 
will come, and take away both our 
place and nation.

49. But one of them, Caiaphas, being 
high priest that same year, said to 
them, You know nothing at all;

50. Neither do you consider that it is 
expedient for us that one man 
should die for the people, and that 
the whole nation perish not.

51. But this he said not of himself; but 
being high priest that year, he 
prophesied that JESUS was about to 
die for that nation;

52. And not for that nation only, but 

that he should also gather together 
into one the children of GOD that 
were scattered abroad.

152

Therefore they are intent on the destruction of that 
humanity, which on that account is hid from the 
perverted church, and made manifest to those of the 
new church, who are in the intelligence of truth, but 
obscurely, vs 53, 54.

Nevertheless, by representative worship, and the 
purification which it enjoined, many in the perverted 
church are inquisitive about the LORD'S Humanity, 
whilst they, who are principled in self-love and 
hypocritical worship, still plot his destruction, vs 55, 
56, 57.

53. Then from that day they consulted 
together, that they might put him to
death.

54. JESUS therefore walked no more 
openly among the Jews, but 
departed thence into the country 
near the wilderness, into a city 
called Ephraim, and there 
continued with his disciples.

55. But the passover of the Jews was 
near, and many went out of the 
country up to Jerusalem before the 
passover, that they might purify 
themselves.

56. Then they sought JESUS, and said 
one to another as they stood in the 
temple, What think you, that he 
will not come to the feast?

57. But both the chief priests and the 
Pharisees had given a command, 
that if any one knew where he 
were, he should declare [it] that 
they might lay hold of him.

Exposition.

The resurrection of Lazarus from the dead, which is the subject of this chapter, involves in it the 
resuscitation of a new church amongst the Gentiles, for all the miracles, which were worked by the 
LORD, as being divine, involved states of his church. AC 2916.

Verse 1. But there was a certain sick person, Lazarus, &c. The reason why the poor man in the 
parable, (Luke 16:19, 20, 21) is called Lazarus, was from the Lazarus who was raised up by the 
LORD, of whom it is said, that the LORD loved him, John 11:1,2,3,36; and that he was his friend, 
verse 11; and that he sat with the LORD at table, John 12:2. AC 9231. See also SS 40, and TCR 215, 
where also it is added, that the Gentiles are meant by Lazarus, because they were loved of the LORD
like Lazarus.

The reason why Antipas my faithful martyr signifies those who are had in hatred on account of the 
acknowledgement of the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, is, because at that time one 
Antipas was on this account slain, wherefore by him are understood all who are had in hatred on 
that account: as by Lazarus, who lay at the threshold of the rich man, and desired to be fed with the 
crumbs which fell from his table, are understood all whom the LORD loves, because they desire 
truths from a spiritual affection, as may be seen above, AE 118; that the LORD loved a certain 
person called Lazarus, whom also he raised from the dead, is evident in John 11:3, 5, 36; and that 
he sat with the LORD at table, chap. xii. wherefore he is called Lazarus by the LORD, who desired to 

153

be fed with the crumbs falling from the table of the rich man, whereby is signified a desire for 
truths from a spiritual affection, as may be seen above, AE 118; as Lazarus was named on that 
account, so Antipas is here mentioned, because he became a martyr for the name of the LORD, that 
is for the acknowledgement of his divine human [principle.] That such are had in hatred by all those
who do not think of the divine [principle] of the LORD together with his human, cannot be known 
from those who are in the world, but from the same in the other life, where all such burn with so 
much hatred against those who approach the LORD alone, as cannot be described in a few words, for
there is nothing which they desire more, than to kill them; the reason is, because all who are in the 
hells are against the LORD, and all who are in the heavens are with the LORD, and they who are of 
the church, and do not acknowledge the divine [principle] of the LORD in his human, act as one with
the hells, whence it is that they have so great hatred: It has been often told them, that they do evil, 
because they know from the Word, "that the LORD has all power in the heavens and in the earths," 
Matt 28:18; thus that he is the GOD of heaven and earth: likewise, "that he is the way, the truth, and 
the life, and that no one comes to the FATHER but by him," John 14:6; as also that "he who sees the 
LORD sees the FATHER, because he is in the FATHER, and the FATHER in him," John 14:7-11; and "that
no one has seen the FATHER'S shape, nor heard his voice, but the LORD alone, who is in his bosom, 
and is one with him," John 1:18; 5:37; besides many other places; which when they hear they avert 
themselves, for they cannot deny, but are offended, and even breathe the murder of all who profess 
the LORD, as was said above, by reason that hatred is implanted in their life, as may be seen above, 
AE 114. That they would bear hatred against all on account of the LORD, was predicted by the LORD
in certain passages; as in Matthew, "In the consummation of the age they shall deliver you into 
affliction, and shall kill you, and you shall be had in hatred by all on account of my name," Matt 
24:9, 10; and in John, "JESUS said, If the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated 
you; if they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; all these things will they do to you on
account of my name," John 15:18-25; see moreover the passages adduced above, AE 122. These 
things are said, that it may be known what is understood by Antipas, my faithful martyr, who was 
slain with you, namely, they who are had in hatred, because they profess the Divine Human 
[principle] of the LORD. AE 137.

Verse 9. Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? &c. Twelve hours denote all the 
states of truth; to walk in the day denotes to live in the truth; and to walk in the night denotes to live
in what is false. AC 6000.

By day is signified illustration in truths derived from good, and by twelve hours of the day all 
things of truth derived from good, and by walking is signified to live; hence by the above words in 
the spiritual sense is signified, that he who lives in any kind of truth derived from good is in 
illustration and does not wander into falses. AE 430.

Verse 10. But if any one walk in the night, he stumbles, because the light is not in him. In this 
passage night denotes the false derived from evil; light denotes the truth derived from good; for as 
all the light of truth is from good, so all the night of what is false is derived from evil. AC 2352.

Verse 25. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life, &c. The internal of the LORD was 
JEHOVAH himself, inasmuch as he was conceived of JEHOVAH himself, who cannot be divided and 
become another's, as a son who is conceived by a man-father; for the Divine [principle], like the 
Human, is not divisible, but one and the same, and remains; with this internal the LORD united the 
Human essence; and whereas the internal of the LORD was JEHOVAH, it was not a form recipient of 
life, as the internal of a man, but was life itself; his Human essence likewise by unification became 
in like manner life, wherefore the LORD so often says that he is the life. AC 1999.

154

I am the resurrection and the life, signifies that from him is both resurrection and life, and not from 
another; he that believes in me, signifies who believes in his divinity, and that he is the omnipotent 
and only GOD; and whereas no one can believe this, but he who lives the life of charity, therefore 
this also is meant by believing on him; though he die he shall live, signifies although he be 
naturally deceased, yet he shall rise again into life; and every one who lives, and believes on me, 
shall not die eternally, signifies that he who is reformed shall not spiritually die, that is, be damned,
but shall rise again into life eternal; hence it is evident that by dying is not meant to die, but to rise 
again into life. AE 899.

Verse 25. He that believes in me, though he were dead,, yet shall he live. Inasmuch as the 
acknowledgement of the LORD is the first of all things of spiritual life, and the most essential 
principle of the church, and since without it no one can receive any thing from heaven of the truth 
of faith and of the good of love, therefore the LORD also frequently says, that whoever believes in 
him, has eternal life; at the same time he also teaches, that they have faith in him, who live 
according to his precepts, so that life thence enters faith. AC 10083.

That the salvation of the human race depends on the acknowledgement of the essential Divine 
[principle] in the human of the LORD, consequently that that acknowledgement is an essential of the
church and of its worship, the LORD teaches in several passages, as in the above. AC 10370.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 19. And many of the Jews come to those about Martha and Mary, &c. In the common version of the 
New Testament, the words, those about, in this passage, are omitted, but in the original Greek it is expressed,
pros tas peri, to those about, or to the female attendants, with a view possibly to the internal sense, though it 
may not be easy to discern what that sense is.

Verse 25. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life, &c. The LORD here makes a distinction 
between resurrection and life, because in the internal or spiritual sense the term resurrection has reference to
the DIVINE TRUTH, whilst the term life has reference to the DIVINE GOOD; for man is first raised from the 
spiritual death of sin by the reception of heavenly truth, and he is afterwards gifted with spiritual or eternal 
life by the reception of heavenly good. Accordingly a similar distinction follows in this verse, and at verse 
26, where mention is first made of believing in the LORD, and afterwards of living and believing in him, 
because believing has reference to the reception of heavenly truth, whilst living and believing have reference 
to the reception of heavenly good in truth. It is therefore said of him that believes, though he were dead, yet 
shall he live; and of him who lives and believes, he shall never die; for man, by the reception of heavenly 
truth, begins to live, though he was before dead in sin, and by the reception of heavenly good in truth, he is 
perfected and confirmed in heavenly life, thus, according to the divine promise, he can never again become 
dead in sin.

155

John Chapter 12

Chapter 12

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. THEN JESUS, six days before the 
passover, came to Bethany, where 
Lazarus was which had been dead, 
whom he raised from the dead.

2. Then they made for him a supper 
there, and Mary served, but 
Lazarus was one of them that lay at
the table with him.

3. Then Mary, taking a pound of 

ointment of spikenard, very costly, 
anointed the feet of JESUS, and 
wiped his feet with her hair; but the
house was filled with the odour of 
the ointment.

4. Then says one of his disciples, 

Judas Iscariot, Simon's [son] which
was about to betray him.

5. Why was not this ointment sold for 
three hundred pence, and given to 
the poor?

6. But he said this, not that he cared 
for the poor, but because he was a 
thief, and had the bag, and bare the 
things that were put therein.

7. Then said JESUS, Let her alone; for 
the day of my burial has she kept 
this.

8. For you have the poor always with 
you, hut me you have not always.

9. Much people of the Jews therefore 
knew that he was there; and they 
came, not for the sake of JESUS 
only, but that they might see 
Lazarus also, whom he had raised 
from the dead.

THAT the LORD, during his spiritual conflicts 
previous to the full glorification of his Humanity, 
derives consolation from those in the church 
amongst the Gentiles, who are principled in the good
of life derived from himself, vs 1, 2.

On which occasion his Humanity is admitted to 
closer union with his Divinity in divine good and 
truth, through the affection of good, and the church is
made sensible of that union, vs 3.

Nevertheless they, who are in infernal love, seek to 
alienate divine good from the LORD, and appropriate 
it to themselves, and this under specious pretences of
imparting knowledge to those who are in ignorance, 
vs 4, 5, 6.

But they are instructed by the divine truth, to desist 
from such alienation, since the glorification of the 
LORD'S Humanity requires that it be made the all of 
divine good, and since ignorant objects would 
remain in the world when that Humanity was taken 
out of it, vs 7, 8.

That on this occasion many, who were of the 
perverted church, are influenced with love, not only 
to the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, but also to that 
good of life which is derived from him, vs 9.

156

10. But the chief priests consulted that 
they might put Lazarus also to 
death;

Nevertheless they, who are principled in the love of 
spiritual dominion, seek to destroy that good of life, 
because many are led by it to acknowledge the LORD 
in his DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 10, 11.

11. Because that by reason of him 

many of the Jews went away, and 
believed in JESUS.

12. On the morrow, much multitude 
coming to the feast, hearing that 
JESUS was coming to Jerusalem,

13. Took branches of palm-trees, and 
went forth to meet him, and cried, 
Hosanna, blessed is the King of 
Israel, that comes in the name of 
the LORD.

14. But JESUS finding a young ass, sat 

upon it, as it is written,

15. Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold 
your King comes, sitting on the colt
of an ass.

16. But these things his disciples knew 
not at first; but when JESUS was 
glorified, then they remembered 
that these things were written of 
him, and that they did these things 
to him.

17. Then the multitude bare record 

which was with him when he called
Lazarus out of the sepulchre, and 
raised him from the dead.

18. For this also the multitude met him,
because they heard that he had 
done this sign.

19. The Pharisees therefore said 

amongst themselves, You see that 
you prevail nothing; behold, the 
world is gone after him.

Who under such acknowledgement, perceiving that 
the LORD was about to establish his new church, 
adore him as the source of every good affection and 
pure delight, confessing him from the heart to be also
the source of every truth in the church, by reason of 
his union with the supreme good, vs 12, 13.

Wherefore, as had been predicted, the LORD in his 
DIVINE HUMANITY is exalted to dominion over all 
rational good and truth in the church, although it was
not known, until this dominion was effected, what 
was meant by the representatives by which it had 
been predicted, vs 14, 15, 16.

This dominion too is confirmed by those, who 
witnessed the restoration of the good of life in the 
church, and who are thus led to seek conjunction of 
life with the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 17, 
18.

But they, who are in hypocritical worship, see in that 
dominion the downfall of their own dominion, and 
the establishment of a new church, vs 19.

157

20. But there were certain Hellenists 
among them that came up to 
worship at the feast.

21. These therefore came to Philip, 

which was of Beth-saida of Galilee,
and asked him, saying, Lord, we 
are desirous to see JESUS.

22. Philip comes and tells Andrew, and 
again Andrew and Philip tell JESUS.

23. But JESUS answered them, saying, 
The hour is come that the Son of 
Man should be glorified.

24. Verily, verily, I say to you, Unless a
corn of wheat falling into the 
ground dies, it abides alone; but if 
it dies, it bears much fruit.

25. He that loves his soul shall lose it, 
and he that hates his soul in this 
world shall keep it to life eternal.

26. If any one minister to me, let him 
follow me; and where I am, there 
shall also my minister be; and if 
any one minister to me, him will 
the FATHER honour.

27. Now is my soul troubled, and what 
shall I say? FATHER, save me from 
this hour; but for this came I to this 
hour.

28. FATHER, glorify your name. Then 
came a voice from heaven, I have 
both glorified, and will glorify [it] 
again.

29. The multitude therefore, which 
stood by and heard, said that it 
thundered; others said, an angel 
spoke to him.

30. JESUS answered and said, This 

voice came not because of me, but 
for your sakes.

That some of the Gentiles, who are skilled in the 
doctrine of correspondence, seek acquaintance with 
the LORD, through intelligence, and the good of faith,
vs 20, 21, 22.

And are instructed concerning the union of the 
Human [principle] with the Divine, which was to be 
effected through temptation-combats, for the 
salvation of mankind, vs 23, 24.

And also concerning the necessity of man's 
renouncing self-will, or self-love, before he can be 
made partaker of heavenly love, and concerning the 
further necessity of believing in the LORD'S DIVINE 
HUMANITY, and keeping his precepts, since these are 
the only means of admission into the divine 
presence, and of attaining conjunction with the 
divine good, vs 25, 26.

Therefore the LORD, as to his Humanity, underwent 
the most grievous temptations, even to the passion of
the cross, and this voluntarily, with a view to his 
final glorification, or the full union of his Humanity 
with his Divinity, which glorification is announced 
from heaven, vs 27, 28.

But this annunciation is regarded by some as a mere 
natural effect, and by others as supernatural, whilst 
divine instruction is given, that its object is, not so 
much to comfort and support the LORD'S Humanity, 
as to comfort and support his church under the 
process of suffering, through which that Humanity 
was about to pass, vs 29, 30.

158

31. Now is the judgement of this 

world; now shall the ruler of this 
world be cast out.

32. And I, if I be lifted up from the 
earth, will draw all to myself.

33. But this he said, signifying by what

death he was about to die.

34. The multitude answered him, We 
have heard out of the law that 
CHRIST abides for ever; and how 
say you that the Son of Man must 
be lifted up? Who is the Son of 
Man?

35. Then said JESUS to them, Yet a little
while is the light with you; walk 
while you have the light, lest 
darkness overtake you; and he that 
walks in darkness knows not 
whither he goes.

36. Whilst you have the light, believe 
in the light, that you may be the 
sons of light. These things spoke 
JESUS, and departing, was hid from 
them.

37. But though he had done so many 
signs before them, they did not 
believe in him.

By which process a work of judgement was to be 
accomplished, and the powers of darkness were to be
subjugated, whilst at the same time the LORD'S 
Humanity was to be exalted to complete union with 
his Divinity, and from that Humanity was to proceed 
divine truth united with divine good, which, 
influencing the minds of men, would lead them to 
conjunction of life with itself, vs 31, 32, 33.

But this doctrine is regarded in the perverted church 
as contradictory to the Word, and therefore inquiry is
made concerning the union of the Divinity and 
Humanity, and also concerning what is meant by the 
Son of Man, vs 34.

And instruction is given, that by the Son of Man is 
meant the divine truth, manifested in the LORD'S 
humanity, and which for a time made its abode here 
below, and therefore all ought to live according to 
that truth, lest they should be blinded by false 
persuasions, in which case they will not know to 
what end, whether of happiness or misery, their lives 
tend, vs 35.

They ought also to elevate that truth, or suffer it to be
elevated, out of the memory into the understanding, 
and from the understanding into the will and life, vs 
36, former part.

Nevertheless, this instruction is hid in obscurity from
the men of the perverted church, and they cannot 
receive it, notwithstanding the miraculous testimony 
which attends it, vs 36, latter part, and 37.

159

38. That the word of Esaias the prophet
might be fulfilled, which he said, 
LORD, who has believed our report?
And to whom has the arm of the 
LORD been revealed?

And this rejection of the truth had been predicted, 
and not only so, but a reason had been assigned in 
the prediction, why they, whose faith is grounded in 
themselves, cannot admit the truth, since if they did 
admit it, they would only profane it, and would thus 
incur a greater damnation, vs 38, 39, 40, 41.

39. On this account they could not 

believe, because Esaias said again,

40. He has blinded their eyes, and 
hardened their heart; that they 
should not see with the eyes, and 
understand with the heart, and be 
converted, and I should heal them.

41. These things said Esaias, when he 
saw his glory, and spoke of him.

42. Nevertheless, many of the rulers 

also believed in him, but because of
the Pharisees, they did not confess, 
lest they should be put out of the 
synagogue.

Yet the truth is received by some who are in the 
knowledges of faith, but through fear they are 
restrained from making confession of it, which fear 
is occasioned by exalting human opinion above 
divine opinion, vs 42, 43.

43. For they loved the glory of men 
more than the glory of GOD.

44. But JESUS cried and said, He that 

believes in me, believes not in me, 
but in him that sent me.

45. And he that sees me, sees him that 

sent me.

Therefore the divine truth again teaches, that 
whoever has faith in the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, 
has faith at the same time in his DIVINITY, and 
whoever has knowledge of the HUMANITY, has 
knowledge at the same time of the DIVINITY, vs 44, 
45.

46. I am come a light into the world, 

that every one who believes in me 
should not abide in darkness.

Because the LORD'S humanity is divine truth, made 
manifest to man, in order to deliver him from 
infernal falses, vs 46.

For the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY condemns no 
one, being desirous to save all, but every one 
condemns himself, who receives the knowledge of 
the truth, and yet cherished the love of evil which is 
contrary to. that knowledge, vs 47, 48.

47. And if any one hear my sayings, 

and believe not, I do not judge him;
for I came not to judge the world, 
but to save the world.

48. He that rejects me, and receives not
my sayings, has one that judges 
him: the Word which I have 
spoken, the same shall judge him at
the last day.

160

The LORD'S humanity also does not think from itself, 
but from his divinity, from whom it derives the 
whole of its affection and thought, in which affection
and thought there is divine love, and therefore the 
thought of the humanity is always under the 
government of that love, vs 49, 50.

49. Because I have not spoken from 

myself, but the FATHER which sent 
me, he gave me commandment 
what should say, and what I should 
speak.

50. And I know that his commandment
is life eternal; whatever things 
therefore I speak, as the FATHER has
said to me, so I speak.

Exposition.

Verse 13. The multitude took branches of palm-trees, &c. The reason why they took branches of 
trees, was, because trees signified perceptions, and also the knowledges of truth and good; hence 
branches denote the truths themselves. AC 9212. And the reason why they took branches of palm 
trees, was, because palm trees denote the goods of the spiritual church, which are the goods of 
truth; and whereas goods are signified by palm trees, by them is also signified the affection of good,
and hence delight, for all delight is from the affection of good. Inasmuch as this was the 
signification of palm trees, therefore they were employed also in holy festivities, as in the feast of 
tabernacles, Levit 23:40. That palms signified holy festivity, which is grounded in good, is manifest
also from what is written in John, "Much multitude, which had come to the feast, when they heard 
that JESUS was coming into Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees, and went to meet him." AC 
8369.

And cried Hosanna, &c. By cry [or shouting], is signified acknowledgement by faith; and whereas 
cry [or shouting] is also an act, which corresponds to living confession or acknowledgement from 
faith, therefore also amongst the ancients the ritual of crying [or shouting] was received, when such
thing was signified; hence in the Word throughout, mention is made of crying, [or shouting], when 
the subject treated of is concerning confession and acknowledgement from faith, as respecting John
the Baptist, John 1:15, 23, and again, John 12:13, as above. AC 5323.

Verses 14, 15. But Jesus finding a young ass, sat upon it, &c. From the contents of these verses it is 
evident, that all and singular things in the church of that time were representative of the LORD, and 
hence of the celestial and spiritual things which are in his kingdom, and this even to a she-ass, and 
the foal of a she-ass, by which was represented the natural man as to good and truth; the reason of 
the representation was, that the natural man ought to serve the rational, and this the spiritual, but 
this the celestial, and this the LORD; such is the order of subordination. AC 2781.

The reason why the LORD, when he entered Jerusalem, sat on the foal of an ass, and the people on 
the occasion proclaimed him king, and likewise strewed garments on the way, was, because to sit 
upon an ass and on the foal of an ass, was a badge of distinction marking a High Judge and King. 
He who does not know what is signified by a horse, a mule, and the foal of an ass, in the 
representative sense, may believe that the LORD'S riding on the foal of an ass signified misery and 
humiliation, when yet it signified royal magnificence; wherefore also the people on the occasion 
strewed garments on the way. The reason why this was done when he went to Jerusalem, was, 
because by Jerusalem is signified the church, and garments signify truths clothing good, and 
serving it, AE 31.

161

Verses 23, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33. Jesus said, the hour comes that the Son of Man should be glorified; 
now is my soul troubled; and he said, Father glorify your name, and a voice came forth from 
heaven, I have both glorified, and will glorify it again. And Jesus said, Now is the judgement of this
world, now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will 
draw all to myself; this he said, signifying by what death he was about to die. In these words the 
LORD teaches, that by the last combat, which was the passion of the cross, he fully subjugated the 
hells, for hell in all its complex is what is called the prince of the world and the devil: from which 
considerations it is evident, that the LORD, by the passion of the cross, not only conquered and 
subjugated the hells, but also fully glorified his Humanity, whence mankind derived salvation; for 
by the subjugation of the hells, and by the glorification of his Humanity, all liberation from evil is 
effected, and without the accomplishment of those acts there can be no liberation; for man is ruled 
by spirits from hell, and by angels out of heaven from the LORD, wherefore unless the hells had 
been altogether subjugated, and unless the Humanity of the LORD had been altogether united to the 
essential Divine [principle] and thus also made divine, it would have been impossible for any man 
to have been liberated from hell and saved, for the hells would always have prevailed. AC 10655.

That glorification, where the LORD is treated of, denotes the unification of his Human [principle] 
with the Divine [principle] itself which was in him, thus with JEHOVAH his FATHER, by which 
unification he made his Human [principle] also divine good, is manifest from the passages in the 
Word, where glory and glorification, when predicated of JEHOVAH or the LORD, are mentioned; as in
Isaiah, The glory of Jehovah shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, Is 40:5; and in the 
above words, the hour comes that the Son of Man should be glorified, &c, AC 10053.

Inasmuch as the LORD was successively glorified, therefore it is said, I have both glorified, and will
glorify again, Doc. of the Lord, 34.

Verse 24. Verily, verily, I say to you, unless a corn of wheat falling into the ground die, it abides 
alone; but if it die, it bears much fruit. These words have a reference to the extermination of the 
LORD'S first rational principle, when the divine succeeded, and also to the separation of the rational 
principle of man, which he has before regeneration, when it is succeeded by the other rational 
principle which he has after regeneration. For there appertain to every man, who is regenerated, two
rational principles, one before regeneration, the other after regeneration: the first, which is before 
regeneration, is procured by exercises of the senses, by reflections on things in civil and moral life, 
by the sciences, and by reasonings grounded therein and directed thereby, also by knowledges of 
things spiritual derived from the doctrine of faith, or from the Word; but these things at that time 
enter no further into man than a little above the ideas of the corporeal memory, which ideas are 
respectively very material; whatever therefore he thinks at that time is grounded in such things, or 
semblances of such things are formed comparatively or analogically, in order that they may be 
comprehended together at one view by the interior or intellectual sight; such is the nature of the 
first rational principle, or of that which exists before regeneration. But the rational principle after 
regeneration is formed of the LORD by the affections of spiritual truth and good, which affections 
are wonderfully implanted by the LORD in the truths of the former rational principle, and thus the 
things therein, which are in concord with, and favour those affections, are vivified, whilst other 
things are separated thence, as of no use, till at length spiritual goodnesses and truths are bound 
together as it were into little bundles, the things not agreeing therewith, and not capable of being 
vivified, being rejected as it were to the circumference; and this successively, in proportion to the 
increase of spiritual goods and truths with their affections; hence it is evident what is the nature and
quality of the other rational principle. How the case is in regard to these things, may be illustrated 
by comparison with the fruit of trees; the first rational principle is in the beginning like unripe fruit, 

162

which successively ripens, till the seeds within are deposited in it; and when it is of such an age, as 
to begin to separate itself from the tree, then its state is full: But the other rational principle, with 
which man is gifted of the LORD, when he is regenerated, is like the same fruit in good ground, in 
which there is a decay, or rotting, of those parts which encompass the seeds, and the seeds 
themselves shoot forth from their inmost principles, and emit a root, and also at stem above ground,
which grows into a new tree, and unfolds itself, till at length it is multiplied into new fruits, and 
afterwards into gardens and paradises, according to the affections of good and of truth which are 
received. See Matt 13:31, 32. John 12:24. AC 2637.

The reason why by the dead are signified those who have afflicted their souls, have crucified their 
flesh, and suffered temptations, is, because by those things they have mortified the former life, and 
hence have become as it were dead before the world; for the LORD says, except a grain of wheat 
falling into the ground die, it abides alone, but if it die it bears much fruit. AR 639.

That four churches since the creation of the world have existed on this earth, is according to divine 
order, which requires that there be a beginning and its end, before a new beginning results. Hence it
is that every day commences from morning and advances, and closes in night, and after this 
commences anew; also that every year begins from the spring, and through summer advances to 
autumn, and closes in winter,, and after this begins again. The case is similar with churches; the 
first of them, which was the most ancient, was as morning, spring, and the east; the second, or 
ancient, was as mid-day, summer, and the south; the third was as evening, autumn, and the west; 
and the fourth as night, winter, and the north. Moreover the church before the LORD appears as one 
man, and this grand man must pass through his ages like a little man, namely from infancy to 
adolescence, and through adolescence to youth, and at length into old age, and then when he dies 
must rise again; for the LORD says, except a grain of wheat falling into the ground dies, it abides 
alone, but if it die, it bears much fruit. TCR 762.

Combats against evils, which are temptations, are treated of in many passages of the Word, being 
understood by these words of the LORD, I say to you except a grain of wheat falling into the ground
die, it abides alone, but if it die it bears much fruit. These combats, which are temptations, may be 
seen particularly treated of in the Heavenly Doctrine of the New Jerusalem, from NJHD 187 to 201:
whence and of what quality they are, NJHD 196, 197. In what manner and when they are effected, 
NJHD 198. What good they produce, NJHD 199. That the LORD fights for man, NJHD 200. 
Concerning the LORD'S, combats or temptations, NJHD 201. Doc. Life. DLife 99.

Verse 25. He who loves his soul, shall lose it, but he who hates his soul in this world, shall keep it 
to life eternal. By soul in this passage is signified the proprium [or selfhood] of man. AC 6138.

Verse 26. If any one minister to me let him follow me, &c. There are two kingdoms, into which the 
whole heaven is distinguished, one inhabited by the angels, who are in the good of celestial love, 
the other by the angels who are in the good of spiritual love, or in charity; to minister is predicated 
of those who are in the celestial kingdom, but to serve is predicated of those who are in the spiritual
kingdom; hence it is evident what is meant by ministering and a minister in the above passage, and 
that it denotes all that is done from the good of love, thus the good of love. AE 155.

Verse 27. Now is my soul troubled, &c. That the LORD glorified his Human [principle] and that the 
passion of the cross was the last temptation and full victory, by which he was glorified, he himself 
teaches in John, now is my soul troubled; Father, glorify your name. These things were said 
concerning his passion: to glorify is to make divine. Hence now it is manifest, that unless the LORD 

163

had come into the world, and been made a man, and in this manner had liberated from hell all those
who believe on him, and love him, no mortal could have been saved: thus it is understood, that 
without the LORD there is no salvation. Heavenly Doc. of New Jer. NJHD 294.

Verse 28. Father, glorify your name. Then came a voice from heaven, I have both glorified and will 
glorify [it] again. Inasmuch as by the name of JEHOVAH, or the LORD, in the spiritual sense, is 
signified all worship grounded in the good of love and in the truths of faith, therefore in the 
supreme sense by the name of JEHOVAH is understood the LORD as to the Divine Human [principle] 
by reason that from his Divine Human [principle] proceeds the all of love and of faith. That the 
LORD in the supreme sense is understood by the name of JEHOVAH, is evident from these words in 
John, Jesus said, Father, glorify your name, &c. The reason why by the name of JEHOVAH, or of the
LORD, is not meant the name itself, but all things of love and of faith, is grounded in the spiritual 
world, where names such as are used on earth, are not uttered, but the names of the persons 
concerning whom they speak, are formed from the ideas of all things which they know respecting 
them, which are put together in one expression; such is the utterance of names in the spiritual 
world, whence it is that names in that world, like all other things, are spiritual. The name LORD, and
the name JESUS CHRIST, are not there uttered as on earth; but instead of those names, a name is 
formed from the idea of all things which are known and believed concerning him, which idea is 
derived from all things of love and of faith respecting him; the reason is, because these things in the
complex are the LORD belonging to the inhabitants; for the LORD dwells with every one in the goods
of love and of faith which are from him. This being the case, the quality of every one as to love and
faith in the LORD is immediately known, on his uttering with a spiritual expression, or a spiritual 
name, the LORD or, JESUS CHRIST. And hence likewise it is that they, who are not principled in any 
love or in any faith respecting him, cannot name him, that is, form any spiritual name concerning 
him. Let not then the opinion any longer prevail, which is a ruling opinion with the generality, that 
the name alone of JESUS CHRIST, without love and faith directed to him, thus without the 
knowledges by which love and faith are acquired, contributes any thing to salvation. AE 102.

By glorification is understood union, and that in the union of himself with the FATHER the LORD 
regarded the conjunction of himself with the human race, is said expressly, where it is written, 
when I shall be lifted up, I will draw all to myself. That conjunction was effected of the infinite or 
supreme divinity with the human race, by the humanity of the LORD made divine, and that this 
conjunction was the cause of the LORD'S coming into the world, is an arcanum, about which several 
are inquisitive in themselves, and because they do not comprehend it, they do not believe it; and 
since they do not believe because they do not comprehend, therefore it becomes an offence to them.
That this is the case, has been given to know by much experience, respecting those who come into 
the other life; there are many of them, nearly the greatest part of those distinguished by their genius 
in the world, who, whilst they only think that the LORD was made a man, and was as another man in
external form, and that he suffered, and yet rules the universe, fill the sphere instantly with 
scandals, by reason that this was a scandal to them in the life of the body, although at the same time
they published nothing on the subject, and although they adored him with external sanctity; hence it
is perceived manifestly, what was their faith, and what they thought concerning the LORD. This 
being so, it is allowed briefly to explain how the case is; after that all celestial principle perished 
amongst men, that is, all love to GOD, so that there was no longer any will of good, on this occasion
the human race was separated from the Divine [Being or principle], for nothing conjoins but love, 
and when there is no love, disjunction takes place, which is followed by ruin and extirpation; 
wherefore on this occasion a promise was made respecting the coming of the LORD into the world, 
who should unite the Human [principle] to the Divine, and by this union, conjoin the human race in
himself by the faith of love and charity; from the time of the first promise, (Gen 3:15) the faith of 

164

love, directed to the LORD who was about to come, conjoined; but when no longer any faith of love 
remained in the world, then the LORD came, and united the Human essence to the Divine, so that 
they were entirely one, as he himself plainly says, and at the same time taught the way of truth, that 
every one who believed on him, that is, loved him and the things which were of him, and was 
principled in his love, which is extended to the universal human race, thus towards the neighbour, 
would be conjoined and saved. When the Human principle was made Divine, and the Divine made 
Human in the LORD, then an influx of the infinite or supreme divinity took place with man, which 
otherwise could never have existed; hence likewise the dire persuasions of the false were dispersed,
and with them the dire lusts of evil, with which the world of spirits was overcharged, and was 
continually overcharging in consequence of souls flocking from the world; and they, who were in 
those persuasions and lusts, were cast into the hells, and thus separated; unless this had been 
effected, the human race would have perished, since it is ruled by spirits from the LORD; neither 
could they have been dispersed otherwise, for no operation of the Divine [Being or principle] was 
given through things rational into the internal sensual principles of man, since these are far beneath 
the supreme divinity not so united. AC 2034.

When the lusts of the external man were removed, so as to produce no impediment, then the 
internal man, or JEHOVAH, acted in unity with the external, or with the human essence of the LORD; 
for external principles, which are not in agreement, are the only things which hinder the internal 
man, in its action upon the external, producing unity; the external man is nothing else but a kind of 
instrument or organ, having no life in himself, but receiving life from the internal man, in which 
case it appears as if the external man had life from himself. But with the LORD, after that he had 
expelled hereditary evil, and thus purified the organical principles of the human essence, even these
received life, so that the LORD, as he was life in respect to the internal man, was also made life in 
respect to the external man. This is what is signified by glorification, when JESUS said, Father, 
glorify your name. AC 1603.

By name, when applied to the LORD, is signified divine truth, for name denotes every thing by 
which he is worshiped, and every thing by which he is worshiped has reference to divine good and 
divine truth. Inasmuch as it is not known what is meant by these words of the LORD, "FATHER, 
glorify your name; and a voice came from heaven, I have both glorified, and will glorify [it] again;"
therefore it shall be explained: the LORD, when he was in the world, made his Human [principle] 
divine truth, which also is the Word, and when he went out of the world, he fully united divine truth
to the divine good which was in him from conception. For the LORD glorified, that is, made divine 
his Human [principle] as he makes man spiritual; for he first instils into man truths from the Word, 
and afterwards unites them to good, and by that union man becomes spiritual. AR 193.

Prayer viewed in itself is discourse with GOD, and on this occasion some internal contemplation of 
those things which are the subjects of prayer, to which corresponds some similar principle of influx 
into the perception or thought of the mind of him who prays, so that there is a kind of opening of 
the internals of man towards GOD. The prayer of the LORD was nothing else but internal discourse 
with the divine [principle] and at the same time revelation. That it was revelation, is evident from 
these words, that when he prayed, saying, Father, glorify your name, there came forth a voice from 
heaven on the occasion, I have both glorified and will glorify it again, in which passage it is evident
that the prayer of the LORD was discourse with the Divine [principle] and at the same time 
revelation. AC 2535. 

See also Extracts at verse 1 of chap. i.

165

Verse 31. Now is the judgement of this world: Now shall the ruler of this world be cast out. A last 
judgement has twice taken place in this world; once, as is described in the Word, by the flood; and 
secondly, what was performed by the LORD himself when he was in the world, which is also 
understood by the LORD'S words, "Now is the judgement of this world, now shall the ruler of this 
world be cast out;" and in another place, "These things have I spoken to you, that in me you may 
have peace; be confident, I have overcome the world," John 16:33. And likewise by these words in 
Isaiah, "Who is this that comes from Edom, marching in the multitude of his strength, great to 
save? I have trodden the wine-press alone, therefore I have trodden them in mine anger, whence the
victory over them is sprinkled on my garments, for the day of vengeance is in my heart, and the 
year of my redeemed is come; on this account he was made a Saviour," Is 63:1-8, and in several 
other passages. The reason why a last judgement has twice had place on this earth, is, because all 
judgement has place at the end of the church, as has been already shown, and on this earth there 
have been two churches, the first before the flood, and, the second after it; the church before the 
flood is described in the first chapters of Genesis by a new creation of heaven and of earth, and by 
paradise, and its end by eating of the tree of science, and afterwards specifically; and its last 
judgement is described by the flood, and all those things, according to the style of the Word, by 
mere correspondences; in the internal or spiritual sense of which, by the creation of heaven and of 
earth, is meant the establishment of a new church; by the paradise in Eden, the celestial wisdom of 
that church; by the tree of science, the scientific principle which destroyed that church, the like by 
the serpent there; and by the flood is understood the last judgement upon those who were of that 
church. But the other church which was after the flood, is described also in some passages of the 
Word, as Deut 32:7-14, and in other places; this church was extended through a great part of Asia, 
and was continued amongst the posterity of Jacob; its end took place when the LORD came into the 
world, on which occasion a last judgement was effected on all from the first establishment of that 
church, and at the same time on the residue from the first church. For this end the LORD came into 
the world, that he might bring back into order all things in the heavens, and by the heavens on the 
earth, and at the same time that he might make his Human [principle] Divine, since had this not 
been effected, no one could have been saved. Last Judgement, LJ 46.

The feast of the passover was enjoined to be celebrated every year on the day when they went forth 
out of Egypt, and this on account of the deliverance of the sons of Israel from servitude, that is, on 
account of the deliverance of those who are of the spiritual church from falses, thus from 
damnation; and whereas the LORD delivered them by his coming, and elevated them with himself 
into heaven, when he rose again, therefore this was likewise done on the passover; this is also 
signified by the LORD'S words in John, Now is the judgement of this world, now shall the ruler of 
this world be cast out. But I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all to myself. AC 7093.

Verse 32. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all to myself. The LORD flows in with 
every man by the truth which is from himself, whereby he gives life to man; for the light, which is 
from the LORD, is divine truth, and is life, John 1:4; this divine truth, which is from the LORD, enters
by influx into the good belonging to man, and by it draws man to itself, for the life, which is from 
the LORD, is attractive, inasmuch as it is from love, since all love has in it a force of attraction, 
inasmuch as it is willing to be conjoined with others, even until they are one; when therefore man is
principled in good, and from good in truth, he is then attracted by the LORD, and is conjoined to 
him; and when man is not principled in good, thus not in truths derived from good, he is then also 
attracted by the LORD, but he cannot be elevated, since evils and consequent falses avert him. That 
the LORD draws man to himself, he himself teaches in John, I, if I. be lifted up from the earth, will 
draw all to myself. AC 8604.

166

It is to be noted that man of himself cannot approach to the LORD, and be conjoined to him, but the 
LORD must approach to man, and be conjoined to him; and whereas the LORD draws man to himself,
John 6:44; 12:32, it appears as if man of himself approaches and conjoins himself; this is effected 
when man desists from evils, for to desist from evils is left at man's disposal or liberty; in this case 
good flows in from the LORD, which is never wanting, since it is in the life which man has from the 
LORD; but with life the quantity of good received is proportioned to the evils removed. AC 9378.

That the LORD imputes good to every man, and evil to no one, consequently that he does not judge 
any one to hell, but elevates all to heaven, so far as man follows, is manifest from his own words, I,
if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all to myself. There is actually a sphere elevating all to 
heaven, which continually proceeds from the LORD, and fills the universal spiritual world, and the 
universal natural world, and it is as a strong current in the ocean, which secretly draws a ship; all 
they, who believe in the LORD, and live according to his precepts, enter that sphere or current, and 
are elevated, whereas they, who do not believe, are not willing to enter it, but remove themselves to
the sides, and are there carried away by the stream which tends to hell. TCR 652.

Verses 34, 35. The multitude answered him, we have heard out of the law that Christ abides for 
ever, and how say you that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? Then said 
Jesus to them, Yet a little while is the light with you, &c. From these words it is evident, that the 
Son of Man is the LORD as to divine truth; for when they enquire, who is the Son of Man, the LORD 
replies concerning light, which is truth, and that he is the light or truth in which they should believe.
AC 2813. See also AC 9807.

Verse 35. Yet a little while is the light with you, walk whilst you have the light, lest darkness 
overtake you. Light in this passage denotes the LORD from whom comes all good and truth; 
darkness denotes falses, which are dispersed by the LORD alone. AC 1839.

The LORD calls himself the light, because he was essential divine truth when in the world; hence by 
light is signified the LORD as to divine truth, also divine truth from the LORD; and whereas darkness 
is opposed to light, by darkness is signified the infernal false principle, which is the false of evil. 
AE 526.

Walk whilst you have the light. By walking is here signified to live, which signification is derived 
from appearance in the spiritual world, where all walk according to their life, the evil in no other 
ways than those which lead to hell, but the good in no other ways than those which lead to heaven; 
wherefore all spirits are there known from the ways in which they walk; ways also actually appear, 
but to the evil none else but the ways to hell, and to the good none else than the ways to heaven; 
hence it is that every one is carried to his own society. AE 97.

Verse 36. Whilst you have the light, believe in the light that you may be the sons of light. By sows in
the Word are signified truths, on which account the seeds which fell into good ground are called by 
the LORD THE SONS OF THE KINGDOM, and the tares which are falses, the sons of evil, Matt 13:13. 
They also who are principled in truths, are called the SONS OF LIGHT, John 12:36; and they, who are 
in the marriage of truth and good from the LORD, are called the SONS OF THE MARRIAGE, Mark 2:20;
and they who are regenerated, the SONS OF GOD, John 1:11, 12, 13. It is to be noted, that by sons in 
the above passages are signified those, who are principled in truths, or who are principled in falses; 
but whereas the spiritual sense of. the words has nothing in common with persons, therefore in that 
sense by sons are signified truths or falses abstractedly from the idea of person; the reason why the 
spiritual sense is of such a nature, is, because the idea of person limits the thought and its extension 

167

into heaven in every direction; for all thought, which proceeds from the affection of truth, pervades 
heaven in every direction, nor does it terminate but like light into shade, whereas when person is 
thought of at the same time, the idea in such case terminates where the person is, and with it also 
intelligence. This is the reason why by sons in the spiritual sense are signified truths or falses 
abstractedly. AE 724.

Verses 39, 40. On this account they could not believe, because Esaias said again, he has blinded 
their eyes, and hardened their heart, that they should not see with the eyes, and understand with the
heart, and be converted, and I should heal them. When men become inverted orders of life, and are 
not willing to live and to be wise, except from themselves and their self-hood, in this case whatever
they hear, which is a matter of faith, they reason whether it be so, or not; and because they do this 
from themselves, their sensual and scientific principles, they cannot do otherwise than deny, and 
when they deny, they also blaspheme and profane; and at length without concern they commix 
profane things with holy; when man is of such a quality, he is then so damned in the other life, that 
no hope of salvation remains; for the things which are mixed by profanations adhere together in 
that state of mixture, so that as soon as any idea of what is holy enters, the idea also of what is 
profane presents itself in conjunction, the consequence of which is, that the person cannot be in any
other society than that of the damned. This was the reason why the mysteries of faith were never 
revealed to the Jews, as being of the above quality, insomuch that it was not even openly declared 
to them, that they should live after death, nor openly, that the LORD was to come into the world to 
save them; yea, they were kept in such ignorance and stupidity, and are still so kept, that they did 
not know, nor do they know, that there is an internal man, nor that any thing internal is given; for if 
they had known it, and if they knew it, so as to acknowledge it, they are of such a character that 
they would profane it, and thus they would be without hope of any salvation in the other life. These 
are the things which are meant by the LORD in John, "He has blinded their eyes, and hardened their 
heart, that they should not see with the eyes, and understand with the heart, and be converted, and I 
should heal them." For the same reason also all the mysteries of faith were so hidden and covered 
under the representatives of their church: but it is one thing to know, and another thing to 
acknowledge; he who knows, and does not acknowledge, is as if he did not know; but he who 
acknowledged, and afterwards blasphemes and profanes, is he who is meant by the LORD. AC 301, 
302.

The above words denote that it would have been better for the Jews to have been in falsities, than in
truths, because they were in the life of evil, and therefore if they had been instructed in truths, they 
would not only have falsified them still more, but also defiled them with evils. AC 2383.

Inasmuch as the rational principle of men is of such a quality, therefore the Word is expressed 
according to the apprehension of man and even according to his genius; on which account it is that 
the internal sense of the Word is distinct from its literal sense, as may sufficiently appear from the 
Word of the Old Testament, where most things are said according to the apprehension and genius of
the people who then lived, therefore so few things, as to be scarcely any, concerning a life after 
death, concerning eternal salvation, and concerning the internal man; for the Jewish and Israelitish 
people, among whom the church then was, were of such a quality, that if those things had been 
discovered, they would not only have understood them, but would also have ridiculed them. This 
was the reason why the LORD spoke in like manner as the prophets throughout, and on some 
occasions by parables, as he himself says in Matthew, "I speak to them by parables, because seeing 
they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, neither do they understand," Matt 13:13; and in John, 
"He has blinded their eyes, and hardened their hearts, that they may not see with the eyes and 
understand with the heart, and be converted, and I should heal them;" their being converted and 

168

healed involves, that still they would afterwards reject, and would thus profane, which brings along 
with it eternal damnation. AC 2520.

Every one, who thinks at all deeply or interiorly, may know, that by the seed of Abraham, of Isaac, 
and of Jacob, which is so often named, and of which it is so often said that it should be blessed, and
this above all nations and people throughout the earth, in the divine Word cannot be signified their 
posterity, for these, amongst all nations, were least of all principled in the good of love to the LORD 
and of charity towards their neighbour, yea, neither were they principled in any truth of faith; for 
what the LORD is, what his kingdom, thus what heaven is, and what a life after death, they were 
altogether ignorant, as well because they were not willing to know, as because, had they been 
acquainted with those subjects, they would altogether have denied them in their heart, and thus 
would have profaned interior goods and truths, as they profaned exterior by their so frequent and 
open idolatries, which is the reason why so rarely any interior things are extant in the sense of the 
letter of the Word of the Old Testament; by reason of this their quality and character, the LORD said 
of them from Esaias, "He has blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart, that they may not see 
with the eyes, and understand with the heart, and be converted, and I should heal them." AC 3373.

In the sixth and seventh chapters of the Gospel according to Matthew, the LORD opens the interior 
things which are of heaven, but by such things as are in the world. The reason why he opened them 
by such things was, to prevent worldly men understanding them, and that they might only be 
understood by heavenly men; the further reason why worldly men were not to understand them 
was, lest they should profane the interior things of the Word, for by so doing they would cast 
themselves into the most grievous of all hells, which is the hell of the profaners of the Word; 
therefore it was said by the LORD in John, "Esaias, said, he has blinded their eyes, and hardened 
their heart, that they may not see with the eyes, and understand with the heart, and be converted, 
and I should heal them." It is said, lest I should heal them, because they who are healed, and return 
again to falses and evils, are guilty of profanation. AC 9048. See also Heav. Doc. New Jer. NJHD 
170.

Hence it is that almost all, who come from this world into the other, are greatly surprised that they 
are alive, and that they are men equally as before, and that there is no kind of difference: but when 
they cease to wonder, they are next surprised that the church knows nothing of such a state of men 
after death, when yet all as many as have lived in the world, are in the other life, and live as men: 
and since they also expressed a wonder, why this was not manifested to man by visions, they were 
told from heaven that this might have been done, since nothing is more easy when it pleases the 
LORD, but that still they would not believe, who have confirmed themselves in falses against such 
things, although they should see them; also that it is dangerous to manifest any thing from heaven 
to those who are in worldly and corporeal things, because thus they would first believe, and 
afterwards deny, and thereby profane the truth itself; for to profane is to believe and afterwards to 
deny, and they who profane are thrust down into the lowest and most grievous of all the hells. This 
danger is what is meant by the LORD'S words, "He has blinded their eyes, &c." Last Judgement, LJ 
17. See also DP 260.

To see with the eyes, and to understand with the heart, in the above passage, signifies to receive 
with the understanding and the will, or with faith and love. From the above passage therefore it 
appears, that if it had been revealed to the Jews from heaven, that the LORD was the Messiah and 
the Son of GOD, and they had thus been persuaded to acknowledge and to believe, they would 
afterwards have rejected it, and to reject it after acknowledgement and faith is to profane, and the 
lot of profaners is the worst of all lots in hell. AE 706.

169

By the eyes which were blinded, is signified the understanding and faith of truth; by the heart 
which was hardened, is signified the will and love of good; and by being healed is signified to be 
reformed; the reason why they were not to be converted and healed was to prevent profanation, for 
an evil man, who is healed and returns to his evil and false principles, is guilty of profanation; so it 
would have been with the Jewish nation. AE 1081.

Verse 41. These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory and spoke of him. In this passage glory 
denotes the LORD. AC 8427.

Glory in the above passage denotes the divine truth, which called afterwards, verse 43, the glory of 
God, whilst the glory of men, which is there mentioned, denotes what is false. AC 9429.

Verses 44, 45, 46. Jesus cried and said, He that believes on me, believes not on me, but on him that 
sent me, &c. &c. As to what concerns the union of the divine essence of the LORD with his human 
essence, and of the human with the divine, this infinitely transcends the apprehension of man; for 
the internal of the LORD was JEHOVAH himself, thus life itself, but the internal of man is not the 
LORD, neither is it life, but a recipient of life; the LORD had union with JEHOVAH, but man has not 
union with the LORD, but conjunction; the LORD, by his own proper power, united himself to 
JEHOVAH, wherefore also he was made justice, but man in no case conjoins himself by his own 
proper power, but by the power of the LORD, so that the LORD joins man to himself. The above 
reciprocal union is what is meant by the LORD, where he attributes all he has to the FATHER, and all 
that the FATHER has to himself, as in John, "JESUS said, He that believes in me, believes not on me, 
but on him that sent me: I am come a light into the world, that every one, who believes in me, may 
not abide in darkness." AC 2004.

By the FATHER sending him, in the above passage, is signified that he proceeds from the FATHER; 
that light denotes the divine truth, may be seen above. AC 3703.

From the above words it is evident that by the FATHER the LORD understood himself, and by the 
Son, whom the FATHER sent, his Divine Human [principle] for he says, "He who sees me sees him 
who sent me, also he that believes in me, believes not in me, but in him that sent me," and still he 
says, that they should believe in him, as verse 36, and in other places. AE 852.

Verses 47, 48. And if any one hear my sayings, and believe not, I do not judge him, &c. In regard to 
the judgement from truth, the case is this, that the LORD never judges any one but from good, for he
is willing to raise up all into heaven, whoever they are, yea, if it was possible, even to himself, for 
the LORD is mercy itself, and good itself; mercy itself and good itself cannot, in any case, damn any 
one, but it is man who damns himself, because he rejects what is good; as man in the life of the 
body had shunned what is good, so he shuns it in the other life, consequently he shuns heaven and 
the LORD; for the LORD cannot be in any thing but what is good, he is also in truth, but not in truth 
separate from good; that the LORD does not damn any one, or judge him to hell, he himself says in 
John, "GOD sent not his Son into the world, to judge the world, but that the world by him may be 
saved: This is the judgement, that light is come into the world, but men loved darkness rather than 
light, because their deeds were evil," John 3:17, 19; and again, "If any one hear my sayings, and 
believe not, I do not judge him, for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world." AC 2335.

By judgement is signified arrangement, and the reason of this signification is, because divine truth 
does not judge any one, but flows in and arranges things for its own reception; judgement is 

170

afterwards effected according to the laws of order from reception, and this is meant by the LORD'S 
judgement, as is manifest from the LORD'S words, where he says that he judges no one. AC 8685.

The reason why the LORD, when judgement is treated of, calls himself the Son of Man, is, because 
all judgement is according to divine truth which is in the Word; that this judges every one, the LORD
himself says in John, "If any one hear my words, and believe not, I do not judge him; the word 
which I have spoken, it shall judge him at the last day." Doc. Lord. 25. See also AR 233, and TCR 
652.

The reason why the Son of Man is described in the Revelations as having on his head a golden 
crown, Rev 14:14, is because divine good does not judge any one, but divine truth, the cause of 
which is, because divine good loves all, and draws man to heaven, so far as he follows it, but divine
truth separate from good damns all, and judges them to hell; lest therefore all should be damned 
and judged to hell, and that the divine good may moderate, and elevate to heaven, as far as possible,
therefore a golden crown was on the head, by which is signified divine good accoutred for 
judgement, namely to moderate. Nevertheless it is to be understood, that the LORD does not judge 
any one by divine truth, but divine truth viewed in itself judges him who does not receive it, but 
rejects it, as may be manifest from the LORD'S words, John 12:47, 48. AE 907.

It is not to be understood from the above words that the truths, which proceed from the LORD, damn
any one, for all truths which proceed from the LORD are from his divine good, thus they are nothing
but mercies; but whereas men do not receive the mercy of the LORD, they expose themselves to 
damnation, for in such case they are in evils, and evils condemn; neither do the truths which 
proceed from the LORD save man, if he believes that he is saved by virtue of the truths of faith 
belonging to him, and not of mercy, for man is in evils, and of himself in hell, but by the mercy of 
the LORD he is withheld from evil, and kept in good, and this by a strong force, AC 7206.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS,

Verse 20. But there were certain Hellenists, &c. For the meaning of the term Hellenists, see note at chap. vii.
verse 35.

Verse 23. But Jesus answered them, saying, the hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. It is 
remarkable, that when the blessed JESUS is here informed that the Hellenists wished to see him, he 
immediately begins to speak of his glorification, or full union with the FATHER, thus intimating to them in the
most significant language, that he did not wish to be seen in any other way, because in no other way could 
the sight of him be of any real advantage to the beholder. If we wish then to see JESUS to any good purpose 
of profit to ourselves, we must open our eyes by faith, or rather suffer them to be opened, to view him in his 
state of glorification, or in his One-ness with the ETERNAL JEHOVAH, from whom he came forth, in which 
One-ness he now reigns, and will for ever reign, as the supreme and only GOD of heaven and earth.

Verse 26. If any one minister to me, let him follow me, and where I am, there shall also my minister be, &c. 
In the common version of the New Testament this passage is rendered, If any one serve me, let him follow 
me, and where I am, there shall also my servant be; but it is to be noted that in the original Greek what is 
here rendered serve, is diakoni, and what is rendered servant, is diakonos, both which terms have relation to 
ministry, as distinct from service, and conveying a distinct idea. For the idea intended to be conveyed by the 
word ministry is that of operation from a principle of good, whereas the idea intended to be conveyed by 
service is that of operation from a principle of truth. A man therefore becomes a minister, when he acts from 
the love of good in his will, but he remains a servant, so long as he acts merely from the light of truth in his 
understanding. The distinction therefore between the two characters is of importance to be attended to, and 
accordingly JESUS CHRIST has been pleased to distinguish them, where he says to his disciples, "Whosoever 

171

will be greater among you, let him be your minister, and whoever will be the chief among you, let him be 
your servant," [Matt 20:26, 27.]

Verse 32. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all to myself. These words contain a full and 
positive demonstration of the sole and supreme divinity of the BLESSED JESUS, as announcing, first, the 
power of a divine attraction which he exercises on all human minds; and secondly, as announcing the end or 
object of that attraction, namely to draw to himself. For to attract human minds is manifestly a divine 
prerogative, and is accordingly ascribed to JEHOVAH, or the FATHER, by JESUS CHRIST, where he says, "No 
man can come to me, except the FATHER which has sent me draw him," John 6:44. JESUS CHRIST therefore, in
claiming to himself this prerogative, manifestly asserts his divinity, and that he asserts at the same time his 
sole and supreme divinity, is evident, not only from the consideration that there can only be one centre of 
divine attraction, but also from the end or object of that attraction, as here declared by the divine attractor. 
For why should the BLESSED JESUS, in his state of exaltation, or glorification, draw all to himself, unless he 
was the SUPREME and ONLY GOD ? Had there been a Divine Being superior to himself, he was bound by 
every obligation of duty to have drawn mankind to that Being, and not to himself; or had there been any 
other Divine Being equal to himself, how could he be justified in his neglect of that Being, by making 
himself alone the centre of his attraction? The obvious conclusion therefore, which forces itself on the mind 
of the devout reader from the above passage, is manifestly this, and can be no other, namely that JESUS 
CHRIST, in his state of exaltation, or glorification, is one with the ETERNAL FATHER, by virtue of which One-
ness, his humanity is a DIVINE HUMANITY, and thus is the sole and supreme fountain of all divine love and 
wisdom, consequently of all divine life and operation, thus of all divine attraction, together with all the 
divine graces, virtues, and blessings of purification, regeneration, salvation, and eternal life, thence resulting.
It merits, however, the most serious and profound attention on the part of every Christian, that the above 
divine attraction cannot possibly be exercised to advantage on himself, only so far as the BLESSED JESUS is 
first lifted up in himself; in other words, only so far as that Great and HOLY GOD in his DIVINE HUMANITY is 
seen and acknowledged as the ONLY TRUE GOD, and not only so, but is loved, approached, and enjoyed as the
ONLY TRUE GOOD. For should any other GOD be exalted above him in the mind's understanding, or any other 
GOOD in the mind's will, or love, from that moment a contrary attraction must of necessity take place, and 
the certain consequence will be, that the divine attraction will be disturbed, and its salutary effect will thus 
be impeded, at least, if not totally frustrated.

Verse 35. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you, and he that walks in darkness knows not
whither he goes. What is here rendered, and he that walks, is rendered in the common version of the New 
Testament, for he that walks; but it is to be noted, that in the original Greek the term rat is used, which has 
always the force of the English and, and never that of for. The argument then here urged by the LORD in 
favour of walking in the light, is two-fold; first, to prevent being overtaken with darkness; and secondly, to 
guard against that blindness which obstructs man's spiritual light respecting his final destination.

Verse 36. Whilst you have the light, believe in the light, that you may be the sons of light. The distinction 
here made between having the light, believing in the light, and being the sons of light, is of great importance 
to be attended to, for to have the light, is to possess truth in the memory only, to believe in the light is to 
possess truth in the understanding, while to be the sons of light is to be born again of truth by its full 
incorporation into the love and life.

Verse 49. He gave me commandment what I should say, and what I should speak, The LORD here makes a 
distinction between what he should say, and what he should speak, as he had before John viii 5:43. made a 
distinction between his word and his speech. The nature and import of the distinction here made may be seen
by consulting the note on the foregoing distinction.

Verse 50. As the Father has said to me, so I speak. It is remarkable that the term in the original Greek here 
used to express has said, as applied to the FATHER, is eireke, from eiro, whereas the usual Greek terms to 
express saying, are eipo and lego, whence it is to be concluded, that the term eiro is expressive of a more 
interior communication of thought than either eipo or lego.

172

John Chapter 13

Chapter 13

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

THAT previous to the glorification of the 
LORD'S humanity, perception is given to him 
of the approaching event, together with 
unabated love towards his church, on which 
occasion infernal hatred is the more excited 
against him, vs 1, 2.

1. BUT before the feast of the 

passover, JESUS knowing that his 
hour was come, that he should pass
out of this world to the FATHER, 
having loved his own that were in 
the world, he loved them to the 
end.

2. And during supper, the devil 

having now put into the heart of 
Judas Iscariot, Simon's [son] to 
betray him;

3.

JESUS knowing that the FATHER had
given all things to him into the 
hands, and that he came forth from 
GOD, and went to GOD;

But perception is given to the humanity, that 
all things of divinity are appropriated to it, 
since it was assumed by the divinity, and 
united itself with the divinity, vs 3.

Therefore being elevated by this perception, 
and having provided an order of truth adapted
to the natural principle of the church, the 
LORD in his humanity is intent on purifying 
that principle from the defilements of evil, vs 
4, 5.

But they, who are principled in the truths of 
faith, are not aware of the necessity of such 
purification, until they are instructed, that 
they cannot otherwise be purified to eternity, 
and that all purification comes from the LORD
alone in his DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 6, 7, 8.

4. He rises from supper, and laid aside
the upper garments, and taking a 
linen cloth, girded himself.

5. Then he pours water into the bason,
and began to wash the feet of the 
disciples, and to wipe [them] with 
the linen cloth with which he was 
girded.

6. Then he comes to Simon Peter, 
who says to him, LORD, do you 
wash my feet?

7.

JESUS answered and said to him, 
What I do you know not now, but 
you shall know after these things.

8. Peter says to him, You shall never 
wash my feet. JESUS answered him,
Unless I wash you, you have no 
part with me.

173

9. Simon Peter says to him, LORD, not
my feet only, hut also the hands and
the head.

10. JESUS says to him, He that is 

washed, has no need, except to 
wash the feet, but is wholly clean; 
and you are clean, but not all.

11. For he knew him that should betray
him; therefore said he, You are not 
all clean.

12. When therefore he had washed 
their feet, and had taken his 
garments, sitting down again, he 
said to them, Know you what I 
have done to you?

13. You call me Master, and LORD; and 

you say well, for I am.

14. If then I have washed your feet, 

[being] the LORD, and the Master, 
you also ought to wash one 
another's feet.

15. For I have given you an example, 
that as I have done to you, you also
should do.

16. Verily, verily, I say to you, the 
servant is not greater than his 
LORD; neither he that is sent greater
than he that sent him.

17. If you know these things, blessed 

are you if you do them.

18. I say not of you all; I know whom I
have chosen; but that the Scripture 
may be fulfilled, he that eats bread 
with me has lifted up his heel 
against me.

Hence they are urgent for the purification of 
the internal or spiritual man, as well as of the 
external or natural, until they are instructed 
further, that if the external or natural 
principle be purified, the internal or spiritual 
principle will be also purified, vs 9, 10.

Nevertheless, notwithstanding the 
purification which the LORD, in his DIVINE 
HUMANITY, is ever intent on accomplishing in
his church, there are some who still remain in
their natural defilements, and this is 
perceived by the LORD, vs latter part of 10, 
11.

Who therefore inculcates the necessity of 
enquiring into the nature of spiritual 
purification, until it be seen that if he, who is 
the divine source of all truth and good, is 
interested in the purification of man, and is 
continually operative to effect it, man himself
ought also to be interested in, and intent on 
effecting it in like manner, both in respect to 
himself and others, vs 12, 13, 14, 15.

Otherwise he inverts all divine order, by 
setting himself above the LORD, and his own 
wisdom above the divine wisdom, whereas 
his happiness consists in practising those 
precepts which he has received from the 
LORD, vs 16, 17.

Yet all do not so practise, and therefore are 
not accepted, agreeable to what had been 
predicted, namely that the natural man, 
although instructed in the knowledge of truth,
would exalt himself above the spiritual man, 
and thus above the LORD, vs 18.

174

19. From now on I tell you before it 

come to pass, that when it is come 
to pass, you may believe that I am.

20. Verily, verily, I say to you, he that 
receives whomsoever I send, 
receives me; but he that receives 
me, receives him that sent me.

Which prediction was intended to teach, by 
its accomplishment, the LORD'S DIVINITY, and
that he is JEHOVAH, and consequently 
whoever receives truth, which is from the 
Word, receives divine truth, or the LORD in 
his DIVINE HUMANITY, and whoever receives 
divine truth, receives divine good, or 
JEHOVAH, vs 19, 20.

21. JESUS, saying these things, was 

troubled in spirit and testified, and 
said, Verily, verily, I say to you, 
that one of you shall betray me.

Still the LORD, as to his humanity, is grieved 
at the thought, that he will be rejected even 
by those who are instructed in the knowledge 
of the truth, vs 21.

But they, who are so instructed, cannot 
comprehend how this should be, and 
therefore they seek information on the 
subject, first from principles of faith, and 
next from principles of love, and are thereby 
taught, that the LORD will be rejected by all 
those, who receive the knowledge of truth, 
and afterwards profane it through infernal 
love, since where this is the case, man enters 
into consociation with the powers of 
darkness, vs 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, and former 
part of 27.

22. Then the disciples looked one on 
another, doubting of whom he 
spoke.

23. Now there was lying in JESUS'S 

bosom one of his disciples, whom 
JESUS loved.

24. Simon Peter therefore beckoned to 
him, to ask who it was of whom he 
spoke.

25. But he reclining on the breast of 
JESUS, says to him, LORD, who is 
it?

26. JESUS answered, He it is to whom I 
shall give a sop, having dipped it. 
And having dipped the sop, he gave
it to Judas Iscariot, [the son] of 
Simon.

175

27. And after the sop Satan entered 

into him. Then said JESUS to him, 
What you do, do quickly.

28. But no one of those who were at 
the table knew for what intent he 
said this to him.

29. For some thought, because Judas 

had the bag, that JESUS said to him, 
Buy what we have need of for the 
feast, or that he should give 
somewhat to the poor.

30. He then having received the sop, 
went out immediately; but it was 
night.

31. When therefore he was gone out, 

JESUS said, Now is the Son of Man 
glorified, and GOD is glorified in 
him.

32. If GOD be glorified in him, GOD 
will also glorify him in himself, 
and will straightway glorify him.

33. Little children, yet a while I am 

with you. You shall seek me, and as
I said to the Jews, whither I go you 
cannot come, so now I say to you.

Which rejection of the LORD is required to be 
full and entire; but the reason of this is not 
seen by those who have received instruction 
in truth, until the rejection takes place, and 
the church comes to its end, vs latter part of 
27, 28, 29, 30.

On which occasion they are instructed, that 
all opposition of evil men and of evil spirits, 
in their rejection of the LORD, when he was 
here on earth, tended only to unite more fully 
his divinity with his humanity, and his 
humanity with his divinity, mutually and 
reciprocally, vs 31, 32.

They are instructed yet further, that the infirm
humanity must, by such union, be entirely put
off, and that in such case the DIVINE 
HUMANITY will be an object of speculation 
with those who are principled in truth, but not
an object of love, vs 33.

34. A new commandment I give to you,
that you love one another, as I have
loved you, that you also love one 
another.

Until to faith they join charity, and until 
charity be grounded in the divine love, which
is the sure mark and character of a right faith,
vs 34, 35.

35. In this shall all know that you are 
my disciples, if you have love one 
to another.

36. Simon Peter says to him, LORD, 
whither go you? JESUS answered 
him, Whither I go, you can not 
follow me now, but you shall 
follow me afterwards.

Hence enquiry is made, by those who are 
principled in faith, concerning the LORD'S 
glorification, and they are instructed, that 
they cannot comprehend it so long as they 
remain in faith alone, but will comprehend it 
when they conjoin faith with charity, vs 36.

176

Enquiry is further made, why they cannot 
comprehend it so long as they remain in faith 
alone, and again they are instructed, that at 
the end of the church there is no faith in the 
LORD, because there is no charity, vs 37, 38.

37. Peter says to him, LORD, why 

cannot I follow you now? I will lay
down my soul for your sake.

38. JESUS answered him, Will you lay 
down your soul for my sake? 
Verily, verily, I say to you, the cock
shall not crow till you have denied 
me thrice.

Exposition.

Verse 2. The devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's [son] to betray him. See 
Extract from AE at chap. 6:70.

Verse 3. Jesus knowing that he came forth from God, and went to God, &c. By coming forth from 
God is here to be understood, that the essential divinity assumed the humanity; and by going to 
God is signified to unite the human essence to the divine essence. AC 3736.

Verse 4. He rises from, supper, and taking a linen cloth, girded himself. By linen and a linen cloth is
signified the truth of the exterior natural principle, and hence it may be manifest why the LORD, 
when he washed the feet of the disciples, girded himself with a linen cloth, and wiped the feet with 
the linen cloth with which he was girded; for washing of the feet signified purification from sins, 
which is effected by the truths of faith, for by them man is taught how he should live. AC 7601.

Verses 4 to 17. By washing, in the Word, is signified ablution from the filth of self-love and of the 
love of the world: this is what was signified by washing in the representative church, where it was 
commanded, for the sake of representation, that they should wash the skin, the hands, the feet, and 
likewise the garments, by all which things were signified those things which are of the natural man;
the lavers also, which were of brass, were placed out of the temple, namely the brazen sea, and the 
ten brazen lavers, 1 Kings 7:23-37, 38, 39. The laver of brass in which Aaron and his sons were to 
wash themselves, was placed between the tent of assembly and the altar, thus likewise out of the 
tent, Exod 30:18, 19, 21, by which also was signified, that only external natural principles were to 
be purified; for unless these are purified, that is, unless the loves of self and of the world are 
removed, internal things cannot flow-in, which relate to love to the LORD and towards the 
neighbour. In order that it may be better known, how this case is, namely that external principles 
are to be purified, let good works be taken for an example and for illustration, or what is the same 
thing, the goods of charity, which are at this day called the fruits of faith, and which are external 
because they are exercises. Good works are all evil works, unless the things relating to self-love 
and the love of the world are removed, for when works are done before the removal of such things, 
they appear outwardly good, but inwardly they are evil, being done either for the sake of reputation,
or for the sake of gain, or for the sake of self-distinction, or for the sake of renumeration, thus they 
are either meritorious or hypocritical, for the things which are of self-love and the love of the world
communicate such a quality to works, but when these evils are removed, then works become good, 
and are goods of charity, that is to say, there is in them no respect to self, to the world, to reputation,
to remuneration; thus they are neither meritorious nor hypocritical, for in such case celestial love 
and the spiritual love from the LORD flow-in to the works, and cause them to be love and charity in 
act; and in this case the LORD by them also purifies the natural or external man, and arranges him 

177

into order, that he may receive correspondently the celestial and spiritual things which flow in, as 
may manifestly appear from what the LORD taught in John, when he washed the feet of the 
disciples, "He comes to Simon Peter, who says to him, LORD, do you wash my feet? JESUS 
answered and said to him, what I do you know not yet, but you shall know afterwards. Peter says to
him, you shall never wash my feet. JESUS answered him, unless I wash you, you have no part with 
me. Simon Peter says to him, LORD, not my feet only, hut also my hands and my head: JESUS says 
to him, he that is washed has no need except to wash the feet, but is wholly clean," John 13:4-17, in
which passage, "he that is washed has no need except to wash his feet," signifies, that he who is 
reformed has only need to be cleansed as to natural principles, that is, that eviis and falses may be 
thence removed, in which case all things are arranged into order by the influx of spiritual principles
from the LORD: moreover, to wash the feet was an act of charity, denoting that the evils of another 
ought not to be reflected on; and it was likewise an act of humiliation, denoting to make another 
clean from evils, as from filth, as likewise may be manifest from the LORD'S words in the same 
chapter, John 5:12-17. 

Every one may see, that to wash does not purify any one from evils and falses, but only from the 
filth which adheres to him; yet since it was amongst the ceremonies enjoined in the church, it 
follows that it involves somewhat peculiar, namely spiritual washing, that is, purification from the 
filth which inwardly adheres to man: they therefore who knew these things, and thought of the 
purification of the heart, or of the removal of the evils of the loves of self and of the world from the 
natural man, and endeavoured with all their might to effect this, observed the right of washing as 
external worship so enjoined; but they, who were not acquainted with these things, nor willing to be
acquainted, but thought that the mere ceremony of washing the garments, the skin, the hands, the 
feet, tended to purification, and provided they performed this ceremony, that they were allowed to 
live in avarice, in hatred, in revenge, in unmercifulness, in cruelty, all which things are spiritual 
filth, they made this ceremony idolatrous. AC 3147.

It is necessary that, during man's regeneration, his natural principle should be regenerated even to 
the sensual, for unless this be regenerated, there is no reception of truth and good, since truth 
flowing-in is there perverted, and in such case the interiors are closed; wherefore when the exteriors
are regenerated, the whole man is regenerated; this was signified by the LORD'S words to Peter, 
when he washed his feet, "Simon Peter said, LORD, not my feet only, but also the hands and the 
head: JESUS said to him, he that is washed has no need except to wash the feet, and is wholly clean, 
whereby feet are signified things natural; by washing is signified to purify; by the hands are 
signified the interiors of the natural principle, and by the head things spiritual; hence it is evident 
what is meant by the words, he that is washed has no need except to wash his feet and is wholly 
clean, namely that man then is regenerated, when he is regenerated also as to the exterior things 
which are of the natural principle; when therefore man is also regenerated as to the natural 
principle, then all things in that principle are subordinate to interior things, and when interior things
flow in there, they flow in as into their common [or general vessels] by which they render 
themselves sensible to man; when this is the case with man, then from those interior things the 
affection of truth is made sensible, which is of faith, and the affection of good, which is of charity. 
But the sensual principle itself, which 'is the ultimate of the natural principle, can hardly be 
regenerated, by reason that it is filled with material ideas derived from things material, corporeal, 
and worldly; therefore mail who is regenerated, especially at this day, is not regenerated as to the 
sensual principle, but as to the natural principle which is next above the sensual, to which he is 
elevated from the sensual by the LORD, when he thinks of the truths and goods of faith: the faculty 
of elevation from the sensual principle is that with which man is gifted who is regenerated by the 
LORD. AC 7442.

178

Verses 5 to 10. Who can know what is involved in what the LORD here says, What I do, you know 
not yet, but you shall know afterwards? Again, If I wash you not, you have no part with me? And 
again, He that is washed has no need to be washed except as to his feet, and is wholly clean? That 
purification from the evils and falses is here treated of, cannot be known except from the internal 
sense, from which it is evident, that by washing is meant purification from evils and falses; by the 
water in the basin the truth of faith in the natural principle; by the linen cloth, with which the Lord 
was girded, and with which he wiped, the divine truth proceeding from himself; by the feet, the 
natural principle of man; by washing the head, the hands, and the feet, regeneration. In like manner 
by him that is washed: thus by washing the feet is meant to purify the natural principle of man, for 
unless this be purified and cleansed with man, whilst he lives in the world it cannot afterwards be 
purified to eternity; for such as the natural principle of man is when he dies, such it remains, not 
being afterwards capable of being amended, inasmuch as it is the plane, into which interior things, 
which are spiritual, flow-in, it being their receptacle; wherefore when it is perverted, the interior 
things, when they flow-in, are perverted accordingly. The case herein is, as when the eye is injured, 
or any other organ of sense, or member of the body, in which case interior principles cause no other
sensation and no other action by them, than according to reception: that man therefore cannot be 
purified to eternity, if he is not purified as to his natural principle in the world, is meant by the 
LORD'S words, What I do you know not yet, but you shall know afterwards; That he who is 
regenerated needs not to be purified, except as to the natural principle, is meant by these words, He 
that is washed, has no need to be washed except as to the feet, and is wholly clean: And that all 
purification is effected of the LORD alone, is meant by these words, If I wash you not, you have no 
part with me; and that this is effected by divine truth which proceeds from the LORD is signified by 
his wiping them with a linen cloth with which he was girded; that linen cloth denotes truth from the
Divine [Being or principle] see AC 7601, thus the linen cloth, with which the LORD was girded, is 
divine truth from himself. From these considerations it may again be manifest, that the LORD spoke 
by correspondences, thus from the internal sense, inasmuch as he spoke from heaven, in which that 
sense is; wherefore unless the Word of the LORD be understood as to that sense, it is little 
understood. AC 10243.

The internal man is not reformed by knowing, understanding, and being wise only; consequently by
mere thinking, but by willing that which science, intelligence, and wisdom teaches; when man 
knows, understands, and has a relish for knowing and understanding, that there is a heaven and a 
hell, and that all evil is from hell, and all good from heaven, in this case, if he does not will what is 
evil, because it is from hell, but wills what is good because it is from heaven, he is then in the first 
degree of reformation, and in the threshold leading from hell to heaven: when he proceeds further, 
and is willing to desist from evils, he is in the second degree of reformation, and on this occasion is 
out of hell, but not yet in heaven, seeing this latter above himself: it is necessary that there should 
be this internal principle, to the intent that man may be reformed; but unless both the external and 
internal are reformed, the man is not reformed; the external is reformed by the internal, when the 
external desists from the evils, which the internal does not will because they are infernal, and 
especially when on this account he shuns them, and fights against them, thus the internal consists in
willing, and the external in doing, for unless a man does what he wills, there is something within 
which he does not will, and at length there is unwillingness. From these few considerations it may 
be seen, in what manner the external man is reformed by the internal. This likewise is what is 
meant by the LORD'S words to Peter, "If I wash you not, you have no part with me: Peter said to 
him, LORD, not my feet only, but also the hands and the head. JESUS said to him, he that is washed 
has no need except to wash the feet, but is wholly clean. By washing is here meant spiritual 
washing, which is purification from evils; by washing the head and hands is meant to purify the 
internal man, and by washing the feet is meant to purify the external; that when the internal man has

179

been purified, the external is to be purified, is meant by these words, He that is washed has no need
except to wash the feet; that all purification from evils is from the LORD, is meant by these words, If
I wash you not, you have no part with me. That washing amongst the Jews represented purification 
from evils, and that this is signified by washing in the Word, and that by washing the feet is 
signified the purification of the natural or external man, has been abundantly shown in the ARCANA 
COELESTIA. DP 151. See also AR 49.

When the natural principle, which is signified by the feet, is regenerated, the whole man has life 
such as a regenerate person has, according to the words of the LORD in John, Jesus said to Peter, He
that is washed has no need but to wash the feet, and is wholly clean, where by being washed is 
signified to be purified from evils and falses, which is to be regenerated, wherefore he that is 
washed signifies who is purified, that is, regenerated as to the spiritual principle, which is the good 
of love and the truth of doctrine, which must be received into the memory and understanding, that 
is, be known and acknowledged; by having no need except to wash the feet is signified, that the 
natural or external man is then to be purified or regenerated, which is effected by a life according to
the precepts of love and faith, that is, according to the goods and truths of doctrine from the Word, 
and when this is the case, the man himself is purified or regenerated, for to live according to the 
goods and truths of doctrine from the Word is to will them, and thence to do them, which is the 
same thing as being affected by and loving them, for what is made an object of will is made an 
object of affection and of love, consequently of the man himself, for the will is the man himself, 
because man is his own love and his own affection; wherefore it is said, that in such case the whole 
man is clean. AE 666.

Verse 13. You call me Master and Lord, and you say well, for I am. By LORD is here meant the 
Saviour of the world, JESUS CHRIST, who is called LORD without other names, and is acknowledged 
and adored as LORD in the universal heaven, because he has all power in the heavens and in the 
earth. He also commanded, saying, you call me Lord, and you say well, for I am. The disciples also 
after the resurrection called him LORD. AC 14.

Inasmuch as the LORD was JEHOVAH, who is so often named in the Old Testament, therefore also he 
said to his disciples, You call me Master and Lord, and you say well, for I am, by which words is 
signified, that he was JEHOVAH GOD; he is there called LORD as to good, but Master as to truth. AC 
2921."

Verse 20. He that receives me, receives him that sent me. Inasmuch as the FATHER and he were one, 
and the Human [principle] of the LORD was divine by virtue of the divine in itself, therefore all 
things of the FATHER were his; and whereas they were one, he says, He that receives me, receives 
him that sent me. AE 852.

Verse 23. Now there was lying in Jesus s bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. Inasmuch 
as interior things are together in ultimates, as the thought and will of man are in deeds or works, or 
in spiritual things his faith and love, therefore John was loved of the LORD above the rest of the 
disciples, and lay at his breast, by reason that that disciple represented the works of charity, see 
Preface to chap. xviii. and to chap. xxii. of Genesis. AC 9824.

Inasmuch as John represented the church as to good works, and good works contain all things of 
love to the LORD, and of charity towards the neighbour, therefore he was loved of the LORD above 
the rest, as may be manifest from this, that he lay in the Lord's bosom, and reclined at his breast; by
the bosom and the breast in the Word is signified spiritual love, which is love in act, and by the 

180

LORD'S bosom and breast, is signified the divine love itself, wherefore they are in the province of 
the breast in heaven, who are in spiritual love. AE 821.

Verses 31, 32. When therefore he was gone out, Jesus said, now is the Son of Man glorified, and 
God is glorified in him, &c. The external man is nothing else but somewhat instrumental, or 
organical, having in itself no life, but receiving life from the internal man, in which case it appears 
as if the external man had life from himself: but with the LORD, after that he had expelled hereditary
evil, and thereby purified the organical principles of the human essence, even these principles 
received life, so that the LORD, as he was life in regard to the internal man, was made also life in 
regard to the external man; this is what is signified by glorification in John, Jesus says, now is the 
Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him; if God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify
him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him. AC 1603.

That divine truth is the Son, and divine good the FATHER, may be manifest from the signification of 
Son, as denoting truth, see AC 489, 491, 533, 1147, 2633; and of FATHER, as denoting good: also 
from the conception and nativity of truth, as being from good: the reason why Son is divine truth, 
and FATHER divine good is, because the union of the divine essence with the human, and of the 
human with the divine, is the marriage of divine good with truth, and of truth with good, from 
which comes the heavenly marriage; for in JEHOVAH or the LORD there is nothing but what is 
infinite, and inasmuch as it is infinite, it cannot be apprehended by any idea, only that it is the esse 
and existere of all good and truth, or good itself and truth itself; good itself is the FATHER, and truth 
itself is the Son; but whereas there is a divine marriage, as was said, of good and truth, and of truth 
and good, the FATHER is in the Son, and the Son in the FATHER, as the LORD himself teaches in John,
now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him; if GOD be glorified in him, GOD shall 
also glorify him. in himself: hence it may be manifest what is the quality of the union of the 
divinity and humanity in the LORD, namely: that it is mutual, or reciprocal, which union is what is 
called the divine marriage, from which descends the heavenly marriage, which is the kingdom of 
the LORD in the heavens. AC 2803.

The divine truth in the Human Divine [principle] of the LORD, which endured temptations, is not 
the divine truth itself, for this is above all temptation; but it is the rational truth such as angels have,
consisting in appearances of truth, and is what is called the Son of Man, but before glorification; 
but the divine truth in the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD glorified is above appearances, 
neither can it come to any understanding, still less to the apprehenson of man, nor even to that of 
angels, thus it cannot at all be subject to temptation. Concerning this divine truth, or Son of Man 
glorified, it is thus written in John, "JESUS said, now is the Son of Man glorified, and GOD is 
glorified in him, if GOD be glorified in him, GOD shall also glorify him in himself, and shall 
straightway glorify him." That a distinct idea may be had of this very great mystery, it is allowed to 
call the truth belonging to the LORD, which was capable of being tempted, and which endured 
temptations, truth divine in the Human Divine [principle] of the Lord, but to call the truth which 
could not be tempted or undergo any temptation, because it was glorified, divine truth in the Divine
Human [principle] of the Lord. AC 2814. See also AC 9429, 10053, 10067. See also Doc. Lord, 
LORD 35, and TCR 128.

Verse 38. Verily, verily, I say to you, the cock shall not crow until you have denied me thrice. The 
number three inasmuch as it signified what is complete even to the end, thus one period great or 
small, was therefore received in the representative church, and was applied also in the Word, as 
often as such a thing was signified. On this account it was said of Peter by the LORD, that he should 
thrice deny him. AC 4495.

181

He that is acquainted with the internal sense of the Word, may know what is involved in Peter's 
thrice denying the LORD, before the cock crew twice, for by Peter was represented the faith of the 
church, or, what is the same thing, the church as to faith; by the time when the cock crew was 
signified the last state of the church, which time was also cock crowing; by the threefold denial was
signified the plenary denial of the LORD in the end of the church; that Peter represented the faith of 
the church thus the church as to faith, may be seen in the preface to chap. xviii. Gen. and to chap. 
xxii. also AC 3750, 4738, and that those words to Peter signified the denial of the LORD in the 
church, when its end is, see AC 6000, 6073, 10087; for the LORD is denied, when there is no longer 
any faith, and there is no faith when there is no longer charity; that three signify what is plenary, see
AC 2788, 4495, 7715, 8347, 9198, 9488, 9489; hence it is that it was said, that he should thrice 
deny; that this was done in the twilight, when the morning was about to come, is manifest from 
John 18:28; and that cock crowing and twilight is the same thing, is evident from Mark, "watch 
you, for you know not when the LORD of the house is about to come; at evening, or at midnight, or 
at cock-crowing, or in the morning," Mark 13:35. AC 10134.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 10. Jesus says to him, he that is washed has no need except to wash his feet, but is wholly clean. It is 
remarkable that the expression, he that is washed, is in the original Greek lelamenos, from the verb lao, 
which signifies to wash, whereas the term to wash, as afterwards applied to the feet, is expressed in the 
Greek by nipsasthai, from the verb nipto, which also signifies to wash, whence it is evident that the LORD 
here applies two distinct terms to express spiritual washing, which is purification from spiritual evils, and 
that the former term, or lelamenos, is expressive of a more interior washing, or purification, than the latter 
term nipsasthai. These two kinds or degrees of washing are probably expressed by the psalmist in these 
words, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow, [Psalm 51:7], 
where to purge [or to expiate] with hyssop, and to become clean, denotes external purification; and to wash, 
and be made whiter than snow, denotes internal purification, see AC 7918.

Verse 23. Now there was lying in JESUS'S bosom one of his disciples, whom JESUS loved. The beloved 
disciple is here described as lying in JESUS'S bosom, whereas in the 25th verse he is described as reclining on
the breast of JESUS, to denote probably, not only that he was principled in spiritual love, but also that he was 
spiritual love in act, the former being figured by lying in JESUS'S bosom, and the latter by reclining on the 
breast of JESUS.

182

John Chapter 14

Chapter 14

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. LET not your heart be troubled; 

believe in GOD, and believe in me.

2.

In my FATHER'S house are many 
mansions; but if not, I would have 
told you; I go to prepare a place for
you.

THE Word teaches, that man ought to look inwards 
towards the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY, for a 
refuge against evils, vs 1.

And to believe that heaven is distinguished into in 
numerable societies, according to all the 
discriminations of good and truth, and that every one
has a place there, according to the conjunction of 
those principles in his mind and life, vs 2.

3. And if I go, and prepare a place for 
you, I will come again and receive 
you to myself, that where I am you 
may be also.

And to believe further, that according to the 
conjunction of those principles in the mind and life, 
every man has eternal conjunction of life with the 
LORD himself, vs 3.

4. And whither I go you know, and 

the way you know.

5. Thomas says to him, LORD, we 

know not whither you go, and how 
can we know the way?

6.

7.

JESUS says to him, I am the way, 
and the truth, and the life; no one 
comes to the FATHER but by me.

If you had known me, you would 
have known my FATHER also; and 
from now on you know him, and 
have seen him.

8. Philip says to him, LORD, show us 
the FATHER, and it suffices us.

Because according to the conjunction of those 
principles, every one has knowledge concerning the 
glorification of the LORD'S humanity, and the process
by which it was effected, although this knowledge 
seems to be concealed from him, vs 4, 5.

For in that glorification, and the process by which it 
was effected, is contained the all of doctrine, 
together with its truth and life, by which alone 
introduction is given to the supreme good, vs 6.

Consequently the knowledge of the LORD in His 
DIVINE HUMANITY involves in it the knowledge of 
his essential divinity, and therefore faith in the 
visible humanity renders the divinity visible at the 
same time, vs 7.

This reasoning however seems obscure to those in 
the church, who are principled in the intelligence of 
truth, and therefore they seek further instruction 
concerning the hidden divinity, vs 8.

183

And are further taught, that whoever had faith in the 
visible DIVINE HUMANITY, has faith also in the 
invisible Di VINITY, since the DIVINITY and 
HUMANITY are mutually and reciprocally united, like 
soul and body, so that the humanity both thinks and 
operates from the divinity which is one with it, vs 9, 
10, 11.

9.

JESUS says to him, Have I been so 
long time with you and have you 
not known me, Philip? he that has 
seen me has seen the FATHER; and 
how say you, show us the FATHER?

10. Believe you not that I am in the 

FATHER, and the FATHER is in me? 
the sayings that I speak to you, I 
speak not from myself, but the 
FATHER that dwells in me, he does 
the works.

11. Believe me that I am in the FATHER,
and the FATHER is in me, or else 
believe me for the very work's 
sake.

12. Verily, verily, I say to you, he that 
believes in me, the works that I do 
shall he do also, and greater than 
these shall he do, because I go to 
my FATHER.

Whosoever also has faith in the visible DIVINE 
HUMANITY, operates not only from truth in the 
understanding, but from the good of love and charity 
in the will, through the power supplied from that 
humanity made divine, vs 12.

13. And whatever you shall ask in my 
name, this will I do, that the 
FATHER may be glorified in the 
Son.

And thus, inasmuch as he addresses himself 
immediately to the LORD in His DIVINE HUMANITY, 
all His prayers are granted, because the divinity is 
one with that humanity, vs 13, 14.

14. If you shall ask any thing in my 

name I will do [it.]

15. If you love me, keep my 

commandments.

16. And I will ask the FATHER, and He 
will give you another Comforter, 
that He may abide with you for 
ever;

17. The spirit of truth, which the world 
cannot receive, because it sees it 
not, neither knows it; but you know
it, because it dwells with you, and 
shall be in you.

18. I will not leave you orphans; I 

come to you.

He is also instructed that to love the LORD is to live 
according to His divine precepts, in which case the 
LORD in His DIVINE HUMANITY imparts all heavenly 
good and truth, and this to eternity, vs 15, 16, and 
part of 17.

Which good and truth cannot be received by those 
who are in evil, but by those who are principled in 
faith and love, and who consequently have good and 
truth continually communicated to them from the 
LORD in His DIVINE HUMANITY, vs latter part of 17, 
18.

184

19. Yet a little while and the world sees
me no more; but you see me; 
because I live, you shall live also.

20. In that day you shall know that I 
am in my FATHER, and you in me, 
and I in you.

So that whereas they, who are in evil, have no faith 
in the LORD, they on the other hand, who are 
principled in faith and love, enjoy his continual 
presence, as a fountain of truth in their 
understandings, and of heavenly love in their wills, 
and thus have reciprocal conjunction of life with 
Him, vs 19, 20.

21. He that has my commandments, 
and keeps them he it is that loves 
me; but he that loves me shall be 
loved of my FATHER, and I will love
him, and will manifest myself to 
him.

For to love the LORD is to live according to His 
precepts, and they who so love are loved in return by
the LORD, who dwells in His own Word in the 
interiors of such, and thus makes them the 
everlasting habitations of His truth and love, vs 21, 
22, 23, 24.

22. Judas says to Him, (not Iscariot) 

LORD, how it is that you are about 
to manifest yourself to us, and not 
to the world?

23. JESUS answered and said to him, If 
any one love me, he will keep my 
Word, and my FATHER will love 
him, and we will come to him, and 
make our abode with him.

24. He that loves me not, keeps not my 
words: and the Word, which you 
hear, is not mine, but the FATHER'S 
which sent me.

25. These things have I spoken to you, 

remaining with you.

26. But the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, 
which the FATHER will send in my 
name, He will teach you all things, 
and will remind you of all things 
which I have said to you.

27. Peace I leave with you, my peace I 
give to you; not as the world gives, 
give I to you: Let not your heart be 
troubled, neither let it be afraid.

Instructing them first by the letter of His Word, and 
afterwards by its spirit, or spiritual sense, in which is 
contained the all of truth and good, thus the all of 
internal peace, by which power is given over all 
spiritual temptations, vs 25, 26, 27.

185

28. You have heard that I said to you, I 
go away, and come to you. If you 
loved me, you would rejoice 
because I said I go to the FATHER, 
for my FATHER is greater than I.

And instructing them further, that true charity 
rejoices in the idea of the LORD'S glorification, or of 
the union of divine truth with divine good, since 
truth derives from good all that it has, or is, and all 
proper faith results from the accomplishment of their
predicted union, vs 28, 29.

29. And now I have told you before it 
come to pass, that when it is come 
to pass, you might believe.

30. I will not yet speak many things 
with you, for the prince of this 
world comes, and has nothing in 
me.

31. But that the world may know that I 
love the FATHER, and as the FATHER 
has commanded me, so I do; Arise, 
let us go hence.

Exposition.

Nevertheless the union cannot be accomplished 
without temptation combats arising from the powers 
of darkness, by virtue of which the divine love of the
LORD is manifested in all its fullness and purity, 
calling mankind to elevation of their affections by 
departing from all contrary love, vs 30, 31.

Verse 2. In my father's house are many mansions. That by mansions are signified the two parts of 
man, which are the will and the understanding, is manifest from what has been said, that those two 
parts are most distinct from each other, and that on this account, as was said, the human brain is 
divided into two parts, which are called hemispheres, to it's left hemisphere appertain the things of 
the understanding, to the right the things of the will; this is the most general distinction. Moreover 
both will and understanding are distinguished into innumerable parts, for there are so many 
divisions of the things of the understanding, and so many of the things of the will of man, that it is 
impossible to express or enumerate them as to the universal genera, still less as to the species. Man 
is a kind of very diminutive heaven, who corresponds to the world of spirits and to heaven, where 
all genera and all species of things of the understanding and will are distinguished by the Lord into 
such orderly arrangement, that there is not the smallest particle of all which is not distinguished; in 
heaven these divisions are called societies, in the word habitations, and by the Lord mansions, John 
14:2. AC 644.

They, who are in the grand man, are in the freedom of respiration, when they are in the good of 
love; but still they are distinguished according to the quality and quantity of good; hence there are 
so many heavens, which in the Word are called mansions, John 14:2; and every one in his own 
heaven is in his own life, and has influx from the universal heaven, every one being there the centre
of all influxes, hence in the most perfect equilibrium, and this according to the stupendous form of 
heaven, which form is from the Lord alone, thus with all variety. AC 4225.

The reason why every society is a heaven in a lesser form, and every angel in the least, is, because 
the good of love and of faith is what makes heaven, and this good is in every society of heaven, and
in every angel of a society. It is of no concern that this good every where differs and is various, for 
it is still the good of heaven; the difference only is, that heaven is of such a quality in one part, and 
of such a quality in another. Therefore it is. said, when any one is elevated into any society of 
heaven, that he comes into heaven, and of those who are there, that they are in heaven, and every 

186

one in his own heaven. This is known to all who are in the other life, on which account they, who 
stand out of or below heaven, and look to a distance where companies of angels are, say that 
heaven is there, and also there. The case herein is comparatively as with governors, officers, and 
ministers in one royal palace, or in one court, who, although they dwell apart in their own 
mansions, or each in his own chamber, one above, another below, still are in one palace, or in one 
court, every one there being in his own function to serve the king. Hence it is evident what is meant
by the Lord's words, in my father's house are many mansions. HH 51.

Verse 2. I go to prepare a place for you. To prepare heaven is to prepare those who are to be 
introduced into heaven, for heaven is granted according to preparation, that is, according to the 
reception of good; for heaven is in man, and he has a place in heaven according to the state of life 
and of faith in which he is, for place there corresponds to state of life, wherefore also place appears 
in the other life according to the state of life, and in itself is state, see AC 2625, 2837, 3356, 3387, 
4321, 4882, 5606, 7381. AC 9305.

The reason why place signifies state, is, because spaces, places, distances in the spiritual world are 
in their origin states of life; they appear altogether as in this world, but still they differ in this 
respect, that the quality of every one is there known, from the place where he dwells, and the place 
where he dwells is known from his quality, thus in general as to the places of all according to 
quarters, and thus in particular as to places in societies, and likewise in singular as to places in 
houses, yea in chambers, whence it is evident that place and quality of state act in unity, and this by 
reason that all things in the spiritual world, which appear before the eyes, even to the earths there, 
are correspondences of spiritual things; hence it is that place signifies state. Hence likewise it is that
in our world it is a generally received mode of speaking to call state place, as when it is said that a 
person has got an appointment to a high place, to an eminent place, and to an illustrious place, 
denoting a high, eminent, and illustrious state. From these considerations it may be manifest what is
meant by what the LORD said to his disciples, In my Father's house are many mansions, I go to 
prepare a place for you, where by preparing a place for them, is signified to provide heaven for 
every one, according to the state of his life, for by the disciples are meant all who are about to be of
His church. AE 731.

Verse 6. Jesus says to him, I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. That the LORD is doctrine 
itself as to truth and good, thus he who alone is regarded in doctrine, he himself teaches in John, 
Jesus said, I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life, where way is doctrine, truth is every thing 
which is of doctrine, life is the good itself, which is the life of truth. AC 2531. See also AC 9310, 
10336, 10422, 10619, 10818.

That it is the LORD who is meant by the Word, is evident; for it is said, The Word was made flesh, 
and dwelt in us; and again, JESUS said, I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. It is believed in 
the world that man has life implanted in himself, and thus that it does not flow in continually from 
Him who alone has life in himself, and who thus alone is life; but that this faith is the faith of what 
is false, may be seen in the work concerning HEAVEN AND HELL, HH 9. AE 82.

Nothing else makes spiritual life with man but the knowledges of truth and good from the Word 
applied to life, and they are then applied to life, when man holds them as the laws of his life, for 
thus he respects the LORD in each of them, and the LORD is present with them, and gives 
intelligence and wisdom, with their affection and delight, for the LORD is in His own truths with 
man, inasmuch as all truth proceeds from the LORD, and what proceeds from the LORD is of himself,

187

so that it is himself, wherefore the LORD says, I am the Truth, and the Life. AE 196; see also AE 
228, 349.

Verse 6. No one comes to the Father but by me. The conjunction of the LORD with man is by His 
divine truth, and this in man is of the LORD, thus is the LORD, and not at all of man, thus it is not 
man. Man indeed feels this as if it were his own, but still it is not his, for it is not united to him, but 
adjoined. AR 222.

Conjunction with God the Father is not possible, but with the Lord, and by Him with God the 
Father.

This is a doctrine taught by Scripture, and approved by reason; for Scripture teaches, that GOD the 
FATHER was never either seen or heard, neither can be, consequently that He does not operate at all 
in man of Himself, as He is in his esse, and in his essence; for the LORD Saith, "No one has seen 
GOD, except he who is with the FATHER, he has seen the FATHER," John 6:46: "No one knows the 
FATHER, but the Son, and He to whom the Son will reveal him," Matt 11:27: "You have neither 
heard the voice of the FATHER, nor seen his shape," John 5:37: the reason is, because He is in the 
first beginnings and inmost principles of all things, consequently, in a most eminent degree above 
every sphere of the human mind; for He is in the first beginnings and inmost principles of all things
relating to wisdom, and of all things relating to love, with which man can have no possible 
conjunction; wherefore, if he should approach to man, or man to Him, the consequence would be, 
that man would be consumed, and melt away, like a piece of wood in the focus of a large burning-
glass, or rather like an image cast into the sun itself; when Moses, therefore, wished to see GOD, he 
was told, "That no man can see GOD and live," Exod 33:20. But that conjunction may be had with 
GOD the FATHER by the LORD, is evident from the passages quoted above, affirming that not the 
FATHER, but the only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the FATHER, and who has seen the 
FATHER, had declared and revealed the things that are of GOD, and from GOD; it is evident also from 
the following passages: "In that day you shall know that I am in my FATHER, and you in me, and I in
you," John 14:20: "I have given them the glory which you have given me, that they may be one, as 
we are one, I in them, and you in me," John 17:22, 23, 26: "JESUS said, I am the way, the truth, and 
the life; no man comes to the FATHER, but by me; and when Philip desired to see the FATHER, JESUS 
answered him, "He that sees me, sees the FATHER also, and he that knows me, knows the FATHER," 
John 14:6, &c. and in another place, "He that sees me, sees him that sent me," John 12:45; and 
again, "I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved; but he that climbs up some 
other way, the same is a thief and a robber," John 10:1, 9; and lastly, "If a man abide not in me, he 
is cast forth as a branch, and is withered, and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they 
are burned," John 15:6. The true ground and reason of this is, because the LORD our Saviour is 
JEHOVAH the FATHER himself in a human form; for JEHOVAH descended, and was made man, that he 
might be able to approach to man, and man to him, and thus conjunction be effected, and by 
conjunction man have salvation and eternal life; for when GOD was made man, and thus also was 
made God-Man, being then in a state of accommodation to man, He could approach and be 
conjoined with him as Man-God and God-Man. There are three things which follow each other in 
an orderly connection, ACCOMMODATION, APPLICATION, and CONJUNCTION; there must be 
accommodation before there can be application, and there must be accommodation and application 
together, before there can be conjunction; accommodation on the part of GOD was effected by his 
being made man; application on the part of GOD is perpetual, so far as man applies himself in his 
turn; and as this is effected, conjunction is effected also. These three things follow each other, and 
proceed in their order, in all things, and in each, which become a one, and co-exist. TCR 370.

188

Verses 8, 9, 10, 11. Philip says to Him, Lord, show us the Father, and it suffices us, &c. &c. The 
LORD, as to the internal man, was divine, because born of JEHOVAH, wherefore when nothing 
hindered on the part of the external man, it follows that he saw all things which would come to 
pass; and the reason why this appeared at the time as if JEHOVAH spoke, is, because it was before 
the external man; as to the internal man, He was one with JEHOVAH, as He himself teaches in John, 
Philip said, Lord, show us the Father; Jesus said to him, Have I been so long time with you, and 
have you not known me, Philip f He that sees me, sees the Father; how then say you, Show us the 
Father? Believe you not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? Believe me, that I am in the 
Father, and the Father in me, John 14:8, 9, 10, 11. AC 1602.

The human essence of the LORD is what is called the Son of Man, which likewise after temptation-
combats was united to the divine essence, so that itself also was made JEHOVAH; wherefore in 
heaven they know no other JEHOVAH FATHER than the LORD. With the LORD all is JEHOVAH, not only
His internal and interior man, but also the external, and the very body, wherefore He alone rose 
again into heaven even as to the body, as is manifest from the evangelists, where His resurrection is
treated of. AC 1729.

He who is conceived of JEHOVAH, has no other internal principle, that is, no other soul, but 
JEHOVAH, wherefore the LORD was as to his very essential life JEHOVAH himself; JEHOVAH, or the 
divine essence, cannot be divided, as the soul of a man-father from which offspring is conceived, 
which offspring recedes from the FATHER in proportion as it recedes from his likeness, thus more 
and more as he advances in age, whence it is that the love of a FATHER towards his children 
diminishes according to advancement in age. It was otherwise with the LORD, who, as he advanced 
in age as to his human essence, did not recede from his FATHER, but continually acceded, even to 
perfect union; hence it is manifest that he is the same with JEHOVAH the FATHER, as he himself also 
clearly teaches, John 14:6, 8, 9, 10, 11. AC 1921. See also AC 2574.

Verse 11. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me. From these words it may be 
manifest, that the divine good of the divine love, which is the FATHER, was united to the divine 
truth, which is the Son, reciprocally in the LORD; and hence that his Human [principle] itself is 
divine good. But this may be better conceived from the reciprocal conjunction of good and truth 
with the man who is regenerated by the LORD, since, as was before said, the LORD regenerates man 
as he glorified his Human [principle.] When the LORD regenerates man, he insinuates the truth 
which is to be the truth of faith into man's intellectual principle, and the good which is to be the 
good of love into his will-principle, and conjoins them in that principle, and when they are 
conjoined, then the truth which is of faith has its life from the good which is of love, and the good 
which is of love has its quality of life from the truth which is of faith; this conjunction is transacted 
reciprocally by good, and is called the heavenly marriage, and is heaven belonging to man. In that 
heaven the LORD dwells as in his own, for all the good of love is from him, and likewise all the 
conjunction of truth with good; the LORD cannot dwell in any proprium of man. AC 10067.

That the LORD is one with the FATHER, is manifest from these words, "Believe me that I am in the 
FATHER, and the FATHER in me. Whatsoever you shall ask in my name, this will I do, that the 
FATHER may be glorified in the Son;" from which words it is manifest that the LORD speaks of the 
FATHER from the divine good, which himself had, and of the Son from the divine truth which is 
from the divine good, thus that they are not two, but one. AC 3704.

The LORD is said to be rejected, when he is not approached and worshiped, and likewise when he is 
approached and worshiped only as to his humanity, and not at the same time as to his divinity; 

189

wherefore he is rejected at this day within the church by those who do not approach and worship 
him, but pray to the FATHER that he would be merciful for the sake of the Son, when yet it is 
impossible for any man or angel to approach the FATHER, and to worship him immediately, he being
the invisible divinity, with whom no one can be conjoined by faith and love; for what is invisible 
does not fall into the idea of thought, and therefore not into the affection of the will, and what does 
not fall into the idea of thought cannot be an object of faith, for the things which relate to faith must
be objects of thought, and likewise what does not enter into the affection of the will does not enter 
into the love, for the things relating to love must affect the will of man, since in the will resides all 
the love which man has, see DOCTRINE OF THE NEW JERUSALEM, NJHD 28 to 35. But the Divine 
Humanity of the LORD falls into the idea of thought, and thus into faith, and hence into the affection
of the will or love; from which considerations it is evident that no conjunction can be had with the 
FATHER except from the LORD and in the LORD; this the LORD himself very clearly teaches in the 
Evangelists, as in John, "No one has seen GOD at any time, the only-begotten Son, who is in the 
bosom of the FATHER, he has brought him forth to view," John 1:18; again, "You have neither heard 
the voice of the FATHER at any time, nor seen his shape, John 5:37; again, "I am the way, and the 
truth, and the life, no one comes to the FATHER but by me; if you had known me, you would have 
known my FATHER also; he who sees me, sees the FATHER; Philip, believe though not that I am in 
the FATHER, and the FATHER in me? Believe me that I am in the FATHER, and the FATHER in me," 
John 14:6-11. Hence it may be manifest, that the LORD is rejected by those within the church, who 
immediately approach the FATHER, and pray him to be merciful for the sake of the Son; for these 
cannot think otherwise of the LORD'S Humanity, than as of the humanity of another man, thus not at 
the same time of his divinity in the humanity, still less of his divinity conjoined to his humanity as 
the soul is conjoined to the body, according to the doctrine received throughout the Christian world,
see above, AE 10, 26. 

Who in the Christian world, that acknowledges the LORD'S Divinity, would be willing to be under 
the imputation of placing his divinity out of his humanity? When, yet to think of the humanity 
alone, and not at the same time of his divinity in his humanity, is to look at them as separate, which 
is not to look at the LORD, nor at both as one person, when yet the doctrine received in Christendom
teaches, that the divinity and humanity of the LORD are not two, but only one person. The men of 
the church at this day think indeed of the LORD'S Divinity in his humanity, when they speak from 
the doctrine of the church, but altogether otherwise when they think and speak with themselves out 
of doctrine; but it is to be noted, that the state of man, when he thinks and speaks from doctrine, 
differs from that in which he thinks and speaks out of doctrine; for whilst he thinks and speaks from
doctrine, he then thinks and speaks from the memory of his natural man; but when he thinks and 
speaks out of doctrine, he then thinks and speaks from his spirit, for to think and speak from the 
spirit is to think and speak from the interiors of his mind, whence he derives his very faith; the state
of man also after death has a quality agreeable to that of the thought and speech of his spirit out of 
doctrine, and not agreeable to his thought and speech from doctrine, unless this latter had been one 
with the former. That man has two states as to faith and love, one whilst he is in doctrine, and the 
other when out of doctrine, but that the state of his faith and love out of doctrine saves him, and not 
the state of his speech concerning faith and love when from doctrine, unless this latter state make 
one with the former, is unknown to man, when yet to think and speak from doctrine concerning 
faith and love is to speak from the natural man and his memory, as may be manifest from this 
consideration alone, that the bad as well as the good can alike so think and speak when they are 
with others; wherefore also the wicked rulers of the church, alike as the good, or the rulers who 
have no faith, alike with those who have faith, can preach the gospel, with similar zeal and affection
apparently; the reason is, because in such case the man, as was said, thinks and speaks from his 
natural man and his memory; whereas to think from his spirit is not to think from his natural man 

190

and his memory, but from the spiritual man, and his faith and affection. From this consideration 
alone it may be manifest, that man has two states, and that the former state does not save him, but 
the latter; for man after death is a spirit, therefore such as the man was in the world as to his spirit, 
such he remains after his departure out of the world. AE 114.

That to cohabit, or cohabitation, in the supreme sense denotes the essential Divine [principle] of the
LORD and his Divine Human [principle] is from this consideration, because the Divine [principle] 
itself, which is called FATHER, is in the Divine Human, which is called the Son of GOD, mutually 
and reciprocally, according to the words of the LORD himself in John, "He that sees me, sees the 
FATHER; believe me that I am in the FATHER, and the FATHER in me;" that this union is the essential 
divine marriage, may be seen, AC 3211, 3952; and this union is not cohabitation, but is expressed 
by cohabitation in the sense of the letter; for the principles which are one are presented as two in 
the sense of the letter, as also FATHER and Son, yea as three, as FATHER, Son, and Holy Spirit, and 
this for several reasons, concerning which, by the divine mercy, we shall speak elsewhere. AC 
3960.

The Jewish church believed that JEHOVAH was a man and likewise GOD, because he had appeared to
Moses and the prophets as a man, wherefore every angel, who appeared, they named JEHOVAH; 
nevertheless they had no other idea concerning him, that what the Gentiles had concerning their 
gods, to which gods they gave JEHOVAH GOD a preference, because he could do miracles, not aware 
that JEHOVAH was the LORD in the Word, and that it was his Divine Human [principle] which all 
their rituals represented. But the Christian church adores indeed the Human [principle] of the LORD 
as divine in external worship, especially in the Holy Supper, because he had said that the bread 
there was his body, and the wine his blood; but they do not make his Human [principle] divine in 
doctrine, for they distinguish between the divine nature and the human nature; this also by reason 
that the church has declined from charity to faith, and at length to faith separate; and whereas they 
do not acknowledge the Human [principle] of the LORD to be divine, many are offended at it and 
deny him in heart, when yet the real case is, that the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD is the 
divine existing from the divine esse, spoken of above, AC 4687, and that he is the divine esse, for 
the divine esse and divine existere are one, as the LORD also manifestly teaches in John, "JESUS said
to Philip, Have I been so long time with you, and have you not known me? He who sees me, sees 
the FATHER; believe you not, that I am in the FATHER, and the FATHER in me? Believe me that I am 
in the FATHER, and the FATHER in me." For the divine existere is the very Divine [principle] itself 
proceeding from the divine esse, and in image is a man. The LORD indeed was born as another man,
and had an infirm humanity from the mother, but this humanity he altogether expelled, so that he 
was no longer the Son of Mary, and he made the Human [principle] in himself divine, which is 
understood by his being glorified; and he likewise showed himself to Peter, James, and John, as a 
divine man, when he was transformed. AC 4692. See also AC 10269.

Verse 13. And whatever you shall ask in my name, this will I do. That JESUS, in the internal sense, is
the divine good, and CHRIST the divine truth, may be manifest from many passages in the Word. 
The ground and reason why JESUS denotes the divine good, is, because the name signifies health, 
salvation, and a Saviour, and in consequence of that signification, it signifies divine good, for from 
divine good, which is that of the LORD'S love and mercy, and thus by its reception, all salvation 
comes; hence it is that CHRIST denotes divine truth, because the name signifies Messiah, anointed, 
and king. These things are what the angels perceive, when JESUS CHRIST is named, and these are the
things which are signified by there being no salvation in any other name, and by what the LORD so 
often said concerning his name, as in John, "Whatsoever you shall ask in my name, I will do [it;] 
and again, these things are written, that you may believe that JESUS is the CHRIST the Son of GOD, 

191

and that believing, you may have life in his name," John 20:31. That name denotes every thing in 
one complex by which the LORD is worshiped, thus the quality of all worship and doctrine, see AC 
2724; in this case therefore it denotes the good of love and charity conjoined to the truth of faith, 
which is the complex of all doctrine and of all worship. AC 3005, 3006.

It is not here meant that they should ask the FATHER in the name of the LORD, but that they should 
ask the LORD himself, for there is no way open to the divine good, which is the FATHER, but by [or 
through] the Divine Humanity of the LORD, as is likewise known in the churches; wherefore to ask 
the LORD himself, is to ask according to the truths of faith, and whatever is so asked, is granted, as 
he himself also says, "If you shall ask any thing in my name, this will I do." This may still further 
appear from this consideration, that the LORD is the name of JEHOVAH, of which it is thus written in 
Moses, "I send an angel before you, to keep you in the way; take heed of his faces, and hear his 
voice, neither embitter him, because my name is in the midst of him, Exod 23:20, 21. AC 6674.

To ask the FATHER in my name, is to ask the LORD, as he himself teaches, where he says, 
"Whatsoever you shall ask in my name, this will I do; if you shall ask any thing in my name, I will 
do [it.]" The reason why to ask in the name of the LORD is to ask the LORD, is, because no one can 
come to the FATHER but by the LORD, and because the LORD as to the Divine Human [principle] is 
JEHOVAH or the FATHER in a visible form. AC 9310.

To ask in my name, is to ask from love and faith. AE 102.

Verse 15. If you love me, keep my commandments. To love the LORD is to live according to his 
precepts, as he himself teaches in John, if you love me, keep my commandments. AC 10829.

Verses 16, 17. And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, &c. &c. All 
divine truth is from divine good, because it thence proceeds, and if it does not proceed in like 
manner with man, he is not in the LORD; this divine truth is the holy [principle] itself of the Spirit 
which proceeds from the LORD, and is called the Comforter and Spirit of Truth, John 14:16, 17. AC 
4673.

By the Holy Spirit is properly signified divine truth, thus likewise the Word, and in this sense the 
LORD himself is also the Holy Spirit; but whereas in the church at this day by the Holy Spirit is 
described the divine operation, which is actual justification, therefore this is here assumed for the 
Holy Spirit, and this is principally treated of, also for this reason, because divine operation is 
effected by the divine truth which proceeds from the LORD, and that which proceeds is of one and 
the same essence with him from whom it proceeds, like these three things, the soul, the body, and 
what proceeds thence, which together make one essence, with man a merely human essence, but 
with the LORD a divine, and at the same tinier, human essence, after glorification so united, as a 
prior principle to its posterior, and as essence with its form; thus the three essentials, which are 
called FATHER, Son, and Holy Spirit, in the LORD are one. That the LORD is divine truth itself, has 
been shown above; but that the Holy Spirit is that truth is evident from these passages, "A rod shall 
come forth from the trunk of Jesse, the spirit of JEHOVAH shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom 
and intelligence, the spirit of counsel and virtue," Isaiah 11:1, 4, 5. Inasmuch as the LORD is the 
truth itself, hence all that proceeds from him is truth, and this is meant by the Comforter, who is 
also called the Spirit of Truth; this is manifest from the following passage, "I will ask the FATHER, 
that he may give you another Comforter, THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH, whom the world cannot receive, 
since it sees him not, neither knows him, but you know him, because he abides with you, and shall 

192

be in you; I will not leave you orphans, I come to you, and you shall see me," John 14:16, 17, 18, 
19. TCR 139.

The Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, is the divine truth proceeding from the LORD, or what is the 
same thing, the LORD as to divine truth; and the disciples are all those who are principled in goods, 
and thence in truths; therefore it is said, he shall be in you. AE 25.

Verse 18. I will not leave you orphans. By orphans are signified those who are in truth, and not yet 
in good, and still desire good. The reason why these are signified by orphans, is, because sons 
bereaved of father and mother, thus who are deprived of interior good and truth, are orphans, for by
father in the Word is signified interior good, and by mother truth conjoined to that good, AC 5580; 
but by sons are signified truths thence derived. That orphans denote those who have been instructed
in the truths of the faith of the church from the Word, and by them are afterwards led to good, is 
evident also from the LORD'S words in John, "I will ask the FATHER, that he may give you another 
Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever, the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive,
since it sees him not, neither knows him; but you know him, because he dwells with you, and shall 
be in you; I will not leave you orphans, I will come to you; these things have I spoken to you, 
remaining with you, hut the Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, he shall teach you all things," John 
14:16, 17, 18, 24, 25. That they are orphans, who are in truths and desire good, may be manifest 
from singular the things in the above passage; for by the Comforter is meant the divine truth, which
was the LORD v/hen in the world, and which proceeds from the LORD, after he had glorified his 
Human [principle], and departed from the world; therefore he says that he would send the 
Comforter, and that himself would come; where to send the Comforter, denotes to illustrate and 
instruct in the truths of faith; and to come to them is to lead into good, on which account he says, I 
will not leave you orphans. It was said, that by the Comforter is meant the divine truth, which was 
the LORD when in the world, and that it proceeds from the LORD, after he had glorified his Human 
[principle;] and that this is the case, the LORD occasionally taught plainly; but they who distinguish 
the Divine [Being or principle] into persons, and not into essences united in one, do not 
comprehend this; for the Word is explained and comprehended by man according to preconceived 
ideas; thus likewise where the LORD said, that "He is in the FATHER, and the FATHER in him; that the 
FATHER and he are one; also that all things belonging to him are the FATHER'S, and all things of the 
FATHER are his;" that by the Comforter is meant divine truth, is evident from the LORD'S words, for 
he is called the Spirit of Truth, and it is likewise said, the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, shall teach 
you all things. AC 9199. See also AC 9318.

Verse 19. Yet a little while and the world sees me no more, but you see me. In these words to see 
denotes to have faith, for the LORD is only seen by faith, inasmuch as faith is the eye of love, for the
LORD is seen from love by faith, love being the life of faith, wherefore it is said, you shall see me, 
because I live you shall live also. AC 3863.

Verses 20, 21. In that day you shall know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you; he 
that has my precepts, and does them, he it is who loves me. If any one love me, he will keep my 
word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our abode with him. From 
these words it is evident, that it is love which conjoins, and that the LORD has abode with him who 
loves him, also who loves his neighbour, for this is the love of the LORD. AC 1013.

From the above words it is evident in like manner that the LORD, in the union of his human essence 
with the divine, regarded the conjunction of himself with the human race, and that this conjunction 

193

is the end, and is his love, which is such, that the salvation of the human race, regarded in the union
of himself with his FATHER, was his inmost joy. AC 1034.

It is the Divine [principle] proceeding from the LORD, which is called divine good and divine truth, 
from which principles the angels derive all love and all wisdom, by virtue of which they are angels,
having love and wisdom from the LORD, and whereas love and wisdom are from the LORD, they are 
the LORD'S, consequently they are the LORD with the angels, which is also manifest from the LORD'S
words to the disciples, That they are in the Lord and he in them, John 14:20; and that he has abode 
in the Word from himself with them, verses 22, 23, 24; since therefore heaven consists of angels, and
angels are angels from the LORD, it follows that the LORD is heaven. AE 926.

Hence it is evident that the Divine [principle] of the LORD makes the church, as it makes heaven; 
the church likewise is the LORD'S heaven in the earths; hence also the LORD is all in all in the 
church, as in heaven, and dwells there in his own with men, as with the angels in heaven; the men 
of the church also, who thus receive the Divine [principle] of the LORD with love and faith, become 
angels of heaven after life in the world, and no others. That the Divine [principle] of the LORD 
makes his kingdom with man, that is, heaven and the church with him, the LORD also teaches in 
John, "the Spirit of Truth shall remain with you, and shall be in you; and you shall know that I am 
in the FATHER, and you in me, and I in you," John 14:20; the Spirit of Truth is the divine truth 
proceeding from the LORD, of which it is said that it will remain in you; and afterwards, that he is in
the FATHER and they in him, and he in them, by which is signified, that they will be in the Divine 
[principle] of the LORD, and the Divine [principle] of the LORD in them: that the Divine Human 
[principle] is what is there meant, is evident. AC 10151.

Truth without good cannot be said to be inwardly in man, being only in his memory as somewhat 
scientific, which does not enter man, and make man, until it become of the life; and it then becomes
of the life when he loves it, and from love lives according to it; when this is the case, then the LORD
dwells with him, as he also teaches in John, "He that has my precepts, and does them, he it is who 
loves me, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him; and my FATHER will love him, and 
we will come to him, and make abode with him," John 14:21, 23, where to manifest himself 
denotes to illustrate in the truths of faith from the Word; to come to him is to be present; and to 
make abode with him is to dwell in his good. AC 10153. See also Doc. Lord. LORD 35, 61.

Illustration is from the LORD alone, and has place with those who love truths because they are 
truths, and make them uses of life; with others no illustration is given in the Word. The reason why 
illustration is from the LORD alone, is, because the LORD is in all things of the Word; the reason why
illustration has place with those, who love truths because they are truths, and make them uses of 
life, is, because they are in the LORD, and the LORD in them; for the LORD is his own divine truth, 
and when this is loved because it is divine truth, (and it is so loved when it is made use) then the 
LORD is in it in man. These things also the LORD teaches in John, "In that day you shall know that 
you are in me, and I in you; he that has my precepts, and does them, he loves me, and I will love 
him, and will manifest myself to him, and will come to him, and make abode with him," John 
14:20, 21, 23; and in Matthew, "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see GOD," Matt 5:8; 
these are they who are in illustration, when they read the Word, and with whom the Word is bright 
and translucent. SS 57. See also TCR 231: and AC 2945, 9338, 9378.

By all things of heaven and the church is meant divine truth and divine good, the former being from
the light of the sun of heaven, which is wisdom, and the latter being from the heat of the sun of 
heaven which is love; the angels, according to the measure in which they are receptive of those 

194

principles, are heaven in general, and are heavens in particular; and men, according to the measure 
in which they are receptive, are the church in general, and churches in particular. There is nothing 
belonging to any angel, which makes heaven in him, nor any thing belonging to any man, which 
makes the church in him, but the Divine [principle] proceeding from the LORD; for that all the truth 
of faith, and all the good of love is from the LORD, and nothing of them from man, is a known 
thing. From these considerations, it is evident that the LORD is all and in all of heaven and the 
church. That we are in the LORD and he in us, he himself teaches in John, "In that day you shall 
know that you are in me, and I in you," John 14:20, 21. All the angels of heaven, and all the men of 
the church are in the LORD, and the LORD in them, when they are in that heavenly man, above 
spoken of; angels and men in such case are in the LORD, because they are recipients of life from 
him, thus in his Divine [principle] and the LORD is in them, because he is life in its recipients. AE 
1225.

To love the LORD is not to love him as to person, but to live according to his precepts, as the LORD 
likewise teaches plainly in John, "He that has my precepts, and does them, he it is who loves me: if 
any one love me, he keeps my Word, and my FATHER will love him, and we will come to him, and 
make abode with him: He who loves me not, keeps not my words," John 14:20, 21, 23, 24. The 
reason why they love the LORD, who do and keep his precepts and Word, is, because his precepts 
and words signify divine truths, and all divine truth proceeds from him, and what proceeds from 
him, this is himself; wherefore when man is in divine truth as to life, then the LORD is in him, and 
he in the LORD: whence it is said, You in me and I in you, and that he would come and make abode 
with him; this therefore is to love him, for to love is to be conjoined, inasmuch as love is spiritual 
conjunction, and conjunction is effected by the reception of divine truth in doctrine and life. AE 
433.

In the third or inmost heaven all are in love to the LORD from the LORD, and they are of such a 
quality that they possess truths inscribed on the life, and not on the memory, like the angels of the 
inferior heavens. And whereas those angels are in love to the LORD from the LORD, their interior life
consists of mere affections of good and truth from that love; hence it is that they do not speak 
truths, but do them, thus do good works; for the affections of good and truth, which are from that 
love, cannot exist otherwise than in act, and when they exist, they are called uses, and are 
understood by good works; the angels also perceive in themselves the quality of uses or of works 
from the affection which gives them birth, and likewise their differences from the conjunction of 
several affections, thus they do all things with interior wisdom. And whereas they do not think 
truths and thence speak them, but only do them, and this comes from their love to the LORD, and 
hence from affections alone, which constitute their life, it is evident that love to the LORD consists 
in doing truths from their affection, and that their doings are good works, consequently that to love 
the LORD is to do: this also is meant by the LORD'S words in John, "He that has my precepts, and 
does them, he it is who loves me: But he who loves me not, keeps not my words." AE 826.

Every angel has a reciprocal principle for the sake of conjunction with the LORD, but the reciprocal 
principle viewed in its faculty is not his, but the LORD'S. Hence it is that, if he abuse that reciprocal 
principle, by virtue of which he perceives and feels what is the LORD'S as his own, which abuse 
arises from appropriating it to himself, he then falls away from what is angelical. That conjunction 
is reciprocal, the LORD himself teaches in John 14:20-24; 15:4, 5, 6; and that the conjunction of the 
LORD with man, and of man with the LORD, is in those things which are of the LORD, which are 
called his words, John 15:7. Angelic Wisdom, 116.

195

Inasmuch as the Word is from the LORD alone, and treats of the LORD alone, it follows, that when 
man is taught from the Word, he is taught from the LORD, for the Word is divine. Who can 
communicate what is divine, and implant it in hearts, but the Divine [Being] himself, from whom it 
is, and of whom it treats? Wherefore the LORD says, where he speaks of his conjunction with the 
disciples, that he has abode with those who keep his words, John 14:20-24; wherefore to think from
the LORD is to think from the Word, as by the Word. DP 172.

That GOD cannot but save those, who live according to his precepts, and have faith in him, is 
manifest from the LORD'S words in John 14:21-24, and every one, who has any religion and sound 
reason, may confirm himself in this-whilst he thinks that GOD, who is constantly attendant on man, 
and gives him life, and likewise the faculty of understanding and loving, cannot do otherwise than 
love him, and by love conjoin himself to him, who lives well and believes right. For is not this 
inscribed by GOD on every man and on every creature? Can a father and a mother reject their 
infants? Can a bird reject its young, or an animal its cubs? Tigers, panthers, and serpents, are not 
capable of this; to do otherwise would be to act contrary to the order in which GOD is, and 
according to which he acts, and likewise contrary to the order into which he created man. TCR 341.

The reason why the habitation of the LORD is in good, is, because all good is from the LORD, thus 
good is the LORD'S, so that it may be said that the LORD is good, and when the LORD dwells in this, 
he dwells in his own Divine [principle] nor can he dwell elsewhere, agreeably to the LORD'S words 
in John, "JESUS said, If any one love me, he will keep my Word, and my FATHER will love him, and 
we will come to him, and make abode with him," John 14:21, where good from the Divine [Being 
or principle] is here described by loving the LORD, and keeping his Word, for good is of love; with 
one who so loves, it is said that they would make abode, that is, in the good belonging to him. The 
LORD also is in every man, as in his own heaven, when he is in good there, for the heaven of man is 
good, and man by good is with the angels in heaven. AC 8269.

They, who are principled in divine truth, are they who have the LORD'S precepts, and do them, and 
they, who are principled in the divine good, are they who love; hence it is said of every one who so 
loves, that he shall be loved of the Father, and we will come to him, and make abode with him, 
namely divine good and divine truth; from which considerations it is evident, that the LORD speaks 
of the FATHER from the divine good which he himself had, and of the Son from the divine truth 
which is from the divine good, thus that they are not two, but one. AC 3704.

It may be expedient briefly to state what is meant by love to the LORD, or by loving the LORD. He 
who believes that he loves the LORD, and does not live according to his precepts, is very greatly 
deceived; for to live according to his precepts is to love the LORD, those precepts being truths which
are from the LORD, thus in which the LORD is; wherefore so far as they are loved, that is, so far as 
from love the life is formed accordingly, so far the LORD is loved. The reason is, because the LORD 
loves man, and from love wills him to be happy to eternity, and man cannot become happy except 
by a life according to his precepts; for by them man is regenerated, and becomes spiritual, and is 
thus capable of being elevated into heaven. But to love the LORD without a life according to his 
precepts is not to love him, for in such case there is not any thing belonging to man, into which the 
LORD can flow in, and elevate man to himself; for he is an empty vessel, in which there is not any 
thing of life in his faith, nor any thing of life in his love; for the life of heaven, which is called 
eternal life, is not infused into any one immediately, but mediately. From these considerations it 
may be manifest what it is to love the LORD, and likewise what it is to see the LORD, or his faces, 
namely that he is seen from such faith and love. To live according to the LORD'S precepts, is to live 
according to the doctrine of charity and faith, which may be seen prefixed to each chapter of the 

196

book of Exodus. That this is the case, the LORD also teaches in John, "He that has my precepts, and 
does them, he it is who loves me; but he that loves me will be loved of my FATHER, and I will love 
him, and will manifest myself to him: If any one love me, he will keep my Word, and my FATHER 
will love him, and we will come to him, and make abode with him. He that loves me not, keeps not 
my words,"John 14:21, 23, 24. AC 10578.

So far as any one is principled in good, and from good loves truths, so far he loves the LORD, 
inasmuch as the LORD is good itself and truth itself; therefore the LORD is with man in good and in 
truth, and if the latter be loved from the former, then the LORD is loved, and not otherwise. This the 
LORD teaches in John, "He that has my precepts, and does them, he it is who loves me; but he that 
loves me not, keeps not my words," John 14:21, 24. DLife 38.

Inasmuch as the church at this day does not know that conjunction with the LORD makes heaven, 
and that conjunction is effected by the acknowledgement that he is the GOD of heaven and earth, 
and at the same time by a life according to his precepts, it may therefore be expedient to say 
something on the subject. It may be asked by him, who is uninstructed in this case, what is 
conjunction? How can acknowledgement and life make conjunction? What need is there of these 
things, when every one may be saved by mercy alone? What necessity for any other medium of 
salvation but faith alone? Is not GOD merciful and omnipotent? But let such an one know that in the
spiritual world knowledge and acknowledgement make all presence, and that the affection which is 
of love makes all conjunction; for spaces in that world are nothing else but appearances according 
to the similitudes of minds, that is, of affections and consequent thoughts; wherefore when any one 
knows another either from reputation, or from communication with him, or from conversation, or 
from affinity, whilst he thinks of him from the idea of that knowledge, he is presented to view, 
although he was a thousand miles off as to appearance; and if any one loves another whom he is 
acquainted with, he dwells with him in one society, and if he loves him inmostly, in one house. This
is the state of all throughout the spiritual world, and it derives its origin from this circumstance, that
the LORD is present with every one according to faith, and conjoined according to love; faith, and 
the consequent presence of the LORD, is given by the knowledges of truths from the Word, 
especially concerning the LORD himself there, but love and consequent conjunction is given by a 
life according to his precepts, for the LORD says, "He that has my precepts, and does them, he it is 
who loves me; and I will love him, and make abode with him," John 14:21-24. But in what manner 
this is effected, it may also be expedient to say. The LORD loves every one, and is willing to be 
conjoined to him, but he cannot be conjoined so long as man is in the delight of evil, as in the 
delight of hatred and revenge, in the delight of adultery and whoredom, in the delight of defrauding 
or stealing under any pretence whatever, in the delight of blaspheming and lying, and in the 
cravings of the love of self and of the world; for every one, who is in those evils, is in consort with 
devils who are in hell; the LORD indeed loves them even there, but he cannot be conjoined with 
them, unless the delights of those evils be removed, and they cannot be removed by the LORD, 
unless man explores himself, so as to know his own evils, acknowledging and confessing them 
before the LORD, and being willing to desist from them, and thus doing the act of repentance; this 
man ought to do as from himself, because he is not sensible that he does any thing from the LORD; 
and this has been given to man, because conjunction, in order to be conjunction, must be reciprocal,
of man with the LORD, and of the LORD with man. So far therefore as evils with their delights are 
thus removed, so far the love of the LORD enters, which, as was said, is universal towards all, and in
such case man is withdrawn from hell, and brought into heaven. AR 937.

The reason why divine truth, or the Word, is a covenant, or conjunction, is, because it is divine 
from the LORD, thus the LORD himself; wherefore when the Word is received by man, the LORD 

197

himself is received; hence it is evident that by the Word is effected the conjunction of the LORD 
with man; and whereas it is the conjunction of the LORD with man, it is also the conjunction of 
heaven with him, for heaven is called heaven from the divine truth proceeding from the LORD, 
consequently from what is divine, whence they, who are in heaven, are said to be in the LORD. That 
what is divine conjoins itself with those who love the LORD, and keep his Word, see John 14:23. AC
9396.

From the order of creation it may be manifest, that there is such a continual connection from first 
principles to last, that viewed together they constitute a one, in which what is prior cannot be 
separated from what is posterior, just as cause cannot be separated from its effect; thus the spiritual 
world cannot be separated from the natural world, nor the latter from the former, consequently the 
angelic heaven cannot be separated from the human race, nor the human race from the angelic 
heaven; wherefore it is so provided by the LORD, that the one should afford mutual aid to the other, 
namely the angelic heaven to the human race, and the human race to the angelic heaven. Hence it is
that the angelic mansions are indeed in heaven, separated as to sight from the mansions where men 
dwell, but still they are attendant on man in his affections of what is good and true; that they are 
separated as to sight is from appearance, as may be manifest from the article in the work 
concerning Heaven and Hell, where space in heaven is treated of, HH 191 to 199. That the 
mansions of the angels are with men in their affections of what is good and true, is meant by these 
words of the LORD, "he who loves me, keeps my Word, and my FATHER, will love him, and we will 
come to him, and make abode with him," John 14:23; where by the FATHER and the LORD is also 
understood heaven; for where the LORD is there is heaven, since the Divine [principle] proceeding 
from the LORD makes heaven, see the work concerning Heaven and Hell, HH 7 to 12, and HH 116 
to 125. LJ 9.

Verse 27. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you, &c. &c. In these words, peace in the 
supreme sense signifies the LORD; in the representative sense his kingdom, and good from the LORD
there, thus the Divine [principle] which flows-in into good, or into the affections of good, 
producing joys and happinesses from an inmost ground: hence it is evident what is meant by these 
words of benediction, "JEHOVAH shall lift up his faces upon you, and shall give you peace." Numb 
6:26; and what by the usual ancient salutation, Peace be to you. AC 3780.

He who does not know that by brethren, companions, neighbours, and by several names of 
relationship, are signified goods and truths of the church and of heaven, also their opposites which 
are evils and falses, cannot know what is involved in several passages of the Word, where those 
names occur, as in the following in Matthew, "Think not that I am come to send peace on the earth, 
I am not come to send peace, but a sword; for I am come to set a man at variance against his father, 
and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; and a 
man's foes shall be those of his own house. Whosoever loves father and mother above me, is not 
worthy of me; and whoever loves son or daughter above me, is not worthy of me; and whoever 
does not take up his cross and follow after me, is not worthy of me," Matt 10:34, 35, 36, 37, 38; the 
subject here treated of is concerning spiritual combats, which are temptations, and which are to be 
endured by those who are to be regenerated, thus concerning disagreements in man on this 
occasion, between evils and falses which assault him from hell, and goods and truths which he 
receives from the LORD; inasmuch as those combats are here described, it is therefore said, whoever
does not take up his cross, and follow after me, is not worthy of me, for by the cross is meant the 
state of man in temptations: he who does not know that such things are signified by man and father,
by daughter and mother, by daughter-in-law and mother-in-law, may be induced to believe that the 
LORD came into the world to destroy peace, and create dissension in houses and families, when yet 

198

he came to give peace, and to take away dissensions, according to his words in John 14:27, and 
other places. AC 10490.

Innocence and peace are the two inmost principles of heaven; they are called inmost, because they 
proceed immediately from the LORD; for the LORD is innocence itself, and peace itself; the LORD 
from innocence is called a Lamb, and from peace he says, "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give 
to you," John 14:27; which is also meant by the peace, with which they were to salute a city or a 
house on entering it, and if it was worthy, peace would come upon it, and if not worthy, the peace 
would return, Matt 10:11-15; hence likewise the LORD is called the Prince of Peace, Isaiah 9:6, The
reason why innocence and peace are the inmost principles of heaven is also this, because innocence
is the esse of all good, and peace is the blessed principle of every delight which is of good; see the 
work on HEAVEN and HELL, concerning the state of the innocence of the angels of heaven, HH 276 
to 285; and concerning the state of peace in heaven, HH 284 to 290. CL 394.

But what peace is in its first origin, has been amply shown in the work on HEAVEN and HELL, where
the subject treated of is concerning the state of peace in heaven, HH 284 to 290, namely that in its 
first origin it is from the LORD, in him from the union of the Divine [principle] itself and the Divine 
Human, and from him by virtue of his conjunction with heaven and the church, and in particular by 
virtue of the conjunction of good and truth with every one; hence it is that by peace in the supreme 
sense is signified the LORD, in the respective sense heaven and the church in general, and likewise 
heaven and the church in particular with every one. That these things are signified by peace in the 
Word, may be manifest from several passages there, as in John, "JESUS said, Peace I leave with you,
my peace I give to you, not as the world gives give I to you; let not your heart be troubled, neither 
let it be afraid," John 14:27; in which words the subject treated of is concerning the union of the 
LORD with the FATHER, that is, concerning the union of his Divine Human [principle] with the 
Divine itself, which was in him from conception, and hence concerning the conjunction of the 
LORD with those who are in truths derived from good; hence by peace is meant tranquillity of mind 
resulting from that conjunction; and whereas by it they are secure from evils and falses which are 
from hell, for the LORD protects those who are conjoined with himself, therefore he says, "Let not 
your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid;" this divine peace is in man, and whereas heaven is 
with it, heaven is there also understood by peace, and in the supreme sense the LORD; but the peace 
of the world is from worldly successes, thus from conjunction with the world, and since this is only 
external, and neither the LORD, nor consequently heaven is in it, it perishes with the life of man in 
the world, and is turned into what is not peace, on which account the LORD says, "My peace I give 
to you, not as the world gives give I to you." AE 365.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 1. Let not your heart be troubled; believe in God, and believe in ME. In the common version of the 
New Testament, the latter part of these words is rendered, You believe in God; believe also in me, but the 
original Greek is literally, Believe in God, and believe in me. Thus the BLESSED JESUS again asserts his 
divinity, by instructing his disciples that he was an object of their faith alike with GOD; and since it is 
impossible to suppose that he would call his disciples to believe in two divine objects, because this would be
establishing a plurality of gods, therefore we are compelled to interpret the above words as implying the 
DIVINITY of the LORD'S HUMANITY, and thus as calling all mankind to believe in, to draw near to, and to 
worship GOD in the HUMANITY, which he was pleased to assume, and make one with himself, for this blessed
purpose, that mankind might no longer believe in, draw near to, and worship an unknown and unmanifested 
GOD, but a God known, manifested, and thus rendered approachable in a DIVINE HUMANITY.

199

Verse 16. And I will pray the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, &c. It may be proper to inform
the unlearned reader, that the Greek term, here rendered Comforter, properly signifies an advocate, being 
derived from the verb parakaleo, which properly signifies to advocate, or to plead for another, and 
accordingly the term is rendered advocate, 1 John 2:1.

Verse 17. The Spirit of Truth, which the world cannot receive, because it sees it not, neither knows it; but 
you know it, because it dwells with you, and shall be in you. What is here rendered it, in the neuter gender, is
rendered him, in the masculine, in the common version of the New Testament; but in the original Greek the 
term is certainly in the neuter gender, in order to agree with pneuma, or spirit, which is also in the same 
gender. It is remarkable that the LORD here uses two distinct expressions to denote the residence of this spirit
with man, for he says first, It dwells with you, and then adds, and shall be in you, thus intimating a residence 
which existed at the present time, and also a residence which would take place in future. The distinct force 
and meaning of these two expressions can only be seen and apprehended from the consideration, that the 
LORD'S disciples had the spirit of truth dwelling with them, by virtue of their LORD'S presence in his infirm 
humanity, but they had it not in them, until that humanity was glorified, or made a DIVINE HUMANITY, and 
thus operated on the disciples in a more interior way than before. The expressions will apply likewise in 
their distinct signification, to all mankind, since it may be said of every individual of the human race, 
whether he be principled in good or in evil, that he has the spirit of truth dwelling with him, inasmuch as the 
spirit of truth is present with every man, to the intent that it may gain admission, so as to dwell in him; but it 
cannot be admitted so as to dwell in him, unless the man co-operates for that purpose, by opening his mind 
to the INCARNATE GOD, and shunning all evil as sin against him. It is accordingly written in the Apocalypse, 
"Behold, I stand at the door, and knock; if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, 
and will dine with him, and he with me," Rev 3:20. The BLESSED JESUS therefore stands at every man's door,
and knocks, but he cannot enter in, unless man hear his voice, and open the door.

Verse 18. I will not leave you orphans; I come to you. In the common version of the New Testament these 
words are rendered, I will not leave you comfortless; I will come to you; but the original Greek term here 
rendered comfortless, is urphanas, which properly signifies those who are orphans, or deprived of parents; 
and the original term here rendered in the future tense, I will come, is erchomai, in the present tense. To the 
superficial reader it may possibly appear of little importance whether the term comfortless be adopted, or the
term orphans, since each term implies want and distress; nor will it be thought of more importance whether 
erchomai be rendered in the future, or in the present tense. But the attentive and intelligent reader will form a
different judgement, because he will perceive clearly, that the BLESSED JESUS, when he says, I will not leave 
you orphans, meant to teach his disciples this most weighty and interesting lesson of wisdom, that he was 
their spiritual FATHER, or REGENERATOR, thus that he was the GREAT and ONLY GOD, since none but GOD can 
impart to man the new birth of spiritual and eternal life. He will perceive yet further, that when this DIVINE 
REGENERATOR adds, I come to you, he meant to give his disciples this additional instruction, that he is ever 
present with them, to restore in them his own divine image and likeness, and consequently that his divine 
presence is not only future, but present; in other words, he not only will be their FATHER and SAVIOUR, but he
is their FATHER and SAVIOUR, by the continual present influence and operation which he exercises in their 
minds.

Verse 27. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. The BLESSED JESUS here makes a distinction 
between the peace which he leaves with his disciples, and the peace which he gives them, because the peace 
which he leaves with them is comparatively an external peace, resulting from his external presence, whereas
the peace which he gives them is an internal peace, resulting from his internal presence and operation. He 
therefore calls this latter emphatically MY peace, and says of it I give, thus again asserting his SOLE and 
SUPREME DIVINITY, since no one but the MOST HIGH GOD can give internal peace, or peace of mind and 
conscience, inasmuch as all such peace implies the subjugation of evil and the powers of darkness, which 
subjugation cannot be effected but by the strength of a divine arm.

Verse 27. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. In these words another instance occurs of 
that reference to spiritual marriage which the BLESSED JESUS had continually in view in all his divine 
sayings; for to be troubled in heart, relates to a defect of heavenly love, and to be afraid, to a defect of 

200

heavenly truth, or faith; thus both expressions combined inculcate the edifying lesson, that man ought above 
all things to cherish in himself the conjunction, or marriage, of those two heavenly principles, by virtue of 
which alone he can hope to be preserved from the influence of trouble and of fear, or of the infernal marriage
of what is evil and false.

Verses 30, 31. The prince of this world comes, and has nothing in me, but that the world may know that I 
love the Father, and as the Father has commanded me, so I do. It is well known, that in the common version 
of the New Testament, a period, or full stop, is inserted in this passage after the words, And has nothing in 
me, thus breaking off all connection between verse 30 and verse 31, whereas by inserting a comma instead 
of a period, the connection is preserved, and the LORD is made to say, The prince of this world comes, and 
has nothing in me, but [a desire] that the world may know that I love the Father, &c. This is one method of 
clearing away all difficulty as to the combined sense of the two verses. But granting that a period ought to be
inserted at the above words, then we must have recourse to another method of explanation, by removing the 
period at the words, so I do, in verse 31, and reading the whole verse thus, "but that the world may know that
I love the FATHER, and as the FATHER has commanded me, so I do, arise, let us go hence," as if the LORD had 
said, that to convince the world of his DIVINITY, or full union with the FATHER as to his HUMANITY, it is 
necessary that there should be an elevation of the affections and thoughts, signified by the term arise, and a 
consequent separation from mere worldly and corporeal love, signified by the additional exhortation, Let us 
go hence. At all events, the punctuation in the common version ought to be corrected, and it must be left to 
the reader to make the correction according to one or other of the above views of the subject.

201

John Chapter 15

Chapter 15

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1.

I AM the true vine, and my FATHER 
is the husbandman.

2. Every branch in me that bears not 
fruit, he takes it away; and every 
[branch] that bears fruit, he purges 
it, that it may bear more fruit.

3. Now you are clean through the 
Word that I have spoken to you.

4. Abide in me, and I in you: as the 

branch cannot bear fruit from itself,
unless it abide in the vine, no more 
can you, unless you abide in me.

5.

6.

7.

8.

I am the vine, you the branches: He
that abides in me, and I in him, the 
same bears much fruit; for apart 
from me you can do nothing.

If any one abide not in me, he is 
cast forth as a branch, and is 
withered; and they gather them, 
and cast into the fire, and it is 
burned.

If you abide in me, and my sayings 
abide in you, you shall ask what 
you will, and it shall be done to 
you.

In this is my FATHER glorified, that 
you bear much fruit, and become 
my disciples.

9. As the FATHER has loved me, I also 
have loved you; abide you in my 
love.

10. If you keep my commandments, 
you shall abide in my love, as I 
have kept the commandments of 
my FATHER, and abide in his love.

THAT the LORD is the all of spiritual truth, cherished
and enlivened by divine good, by virtue of which 
good, all who are principled in truth and not in good,
are separated, or cast out, whilst all who are 
principled in good united with truth, are purified, vs 
1, 2.

For all spiritual purification comes from the union of
divine good and divine truth, and since this union is 
complete in the LORD, therefore all, who are 
principled in truth, ought to seek reciprocal 
conjunction with him in the good of his love, 
otherwise they cannot attain good, vs 3, 4.

But if they attain that conjunction, they then attain 
heavenly good, which they acknowledge to be 
derived from such conjunction, since without such 
conjunction they are deprived of all spiritual life, and
associated with infernal societies, and become a prey
to all the evil of craving, and thus perish in eternal 
death, vs 5, 6.

Whereas if they have reciprocal conjunction with the
LORD, through obedience to his commandments, they
acquire omnipotence over all evil and false 
principles, and exalt the divine good in their wills, 
and the divine truth in their understandings, vs 7, 8.

For as the divinity is united by love with the 
humanity which he assumed, so is the humanity 
united by love with all those, who obey the truth, and
thus attain reciprocal conjunction with him, which 
conjunction is effected by obedience to the truth, in 
like manner as the reciprocal union of the divinity 
and humanity was effected by the obedience of the 
latter to the divine good, vs 9, 10.

202

11. These things have I spoken to you, 
that my joy might remain in you, 
and that your joy might be filled.

12. This is my commandment, that you
love one another, as I have loved 
you.

13. Greater love has no one than this, 
that one lay down his soul for his 
friends.

14. You are my friends, if you do 

whatever things I command you.

15. Henceforth I call you not servants, 
for the servant knows not what his 
LORD does; but I have called you 
friends, because all things which I 
have heard from my FATHER, I have
made known to you.

16. You have not chosen me, but I have
chosen you, and appointed you, 
that you may go, and bear fruit, and
your fruit remain, that whatever 
you shall ask the FATHER in my 
name, he may give it you. 

17. These things I command you, that 

you love one another.

18. If the world hate you, you know 
that it hated me before you.

19. If you were of the world, the world 
would love its own; but because 
you are not of the world, but I have
chosen you out of the world, for 
this the world hates you.

That thus it is the end of the divine commandments, 
to introduce man to a participation of divine 
blessedness, by filling all his natural delights and 
gratifications with corresponding spiritual joys, 
which end is accomplished by mutual love and 
charity derived from the divine love, vs 11, 12.

Which love and charity is perfected in proportion as 
a man renounces self-love, and prefers another's 
good to his own, since in so doing he attains to a 
state of spiritual freedom, whereas otherwise he is in 
a state of spiritual servitude, through ignorance of 
the divine loving-kindness, inasmuch as all true 
freedom is derived from heavenly knowledge, vs 13, 
14, 15.

Nevertheless, that the power which man possesses of
conjoining himself with the LORD by love, is not of 
himself, but of the LORD, who alone instructs man in 
truth, to the intent that he may live accordingly, and 
thus attain to heavenly good, and that this good may 
be operative in good works, and thereby put man in 
possession of all that he can desire, since all is 
comprehended in mutual love or charity, vs 16, 17.

Yet that they, who have attained such love, through 
the acknowledgement of the divinity in the LORD'S 
humanity, will be opposed and vilified, as the LORD 
himself was opposed and vilified, and for the same 
reason too, because their affections and thoughts are 
in contrariety to those of the worldly-minded, vs 18, 
19.

20. Remember the Word that I said to 
you; the servant is not greater than 
his LORD; if they have persecuted 
me, they will also persecute you; if 
they have kept my Word, they will 
also keep your's.

They are therefore to keep in mind, that if the divine 
love itself be opposed, and the divine truth itself 
rejected, they also will be opposed and rejected, who
are only receivers of that love and truth, and for this 
reason, because the divinity in the LORD'S humanity 
is not acknowledged, vs 20, 21.

21. But all these things will they do to 
you for my name's sake, because 
they know not him that sent me.

203

22. If I had not come, and spoken to 

them, they had not had sin; but now
they have no excuse for their sin.

23. He that hates me, hates my FATHER 

also.

24. If I had not done amongst them the 
works which none other has done, 
they had not had sin; but now have 
they both seen, and hated, both me 
and my FATHER.

25. But that the Word might be fulfilled
that is written in their law, They 
hated me without a cause.

26. But when the Comforter is come, 
whom I will send to you from the 
FATHER, the Spirit of Truth, which 
proceeds from the FATHER, he will 
testify of me.

27. And you also shall testify, because 

you are with me from the 
beginning.

Exposition.

That this non-acknowledgement of the divinity in the
LORD'S humanity is the source of all human disorder 
and condemnation, since whoever opposes the 
LORD'S humanity, or divine truth, opposes at the 
same time his divinity, or divine good, vs 22, 23, 24. 

Thus fulfilling divine prediction, vs 25.

Nevertheless the operation of the LORD'S humanity, 
when fully united with the divinity, will prove to 
every believer that he is the ONLY GOD by virtue of 
that union, and every true believer will also confirm 
this testimony, because he will perceive that all of 
regeneration from the first insemination of truth, is 
from that divine source, vs 26, 27.

Verse 1. I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman, &c. Inasmuch as vine signifies the 
spiritual church, and the primary principle of that church is charity, in which the LORD is present, 
and by which he conjoins himself to man, and by which he alone operates all good, therefore the 
LORD compares himself to a vine, and describes the man of the church, or the spiritual church, in 
these words in John, "I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman; every branch in me that
bears not fruit, he takes away; but every one that bears fruit he purges it, that it may bear more 
fruit," John 15:1, 2. AC 1069.

Inasmuch as the intellectual principle of the spiritual man is made new and regenerated by truth, 
which is only from the LORD, therefore the LORD compares himself to a vine, and those who are 
implanted in truth, which is from himself, consequently who are implanted in himself, he compares 
to branches, and the good which is thence produced to fruit, in John, "I am the true vine, and my 
Father is the husbandman; every branch in me that bears not fruit he takes away,"&c. AC 5113.

By a vineyard is signified the church as to truth, thus the truth of the church, which signification 
derives its origin from representatives in the spiritual world; for before spirits there appear 
vineyards full of grapes, with wine-presses in, them, when the angels hold discourse concerning a 
company who are principled in the truth of good: those representatives have not their rise in this 
circumstance, that such things exist in the earth, but from correspondence, that wine nourishes the 
body of man, in like manner as truth nourishes the soul. Hence it is that the LORD called himself a 

204

vine in John, where he says, I am the vine, you the branches, without me you cannot do any thing, 
John 15:5, where vine denotes faith in the LORD, consequently denotes the LORD as to faith, for the 
LORD is faith, inasmuch as faith is from him, for no faith is faith except what is from him, hence 
also it is, that a vine denotes the faith which is in him. AC 9139.

The Word teaches in the 15th chapter of John, verse 1 to 6, that no one can do good from himself, 
but from the LORD. Doc. Life, DLife 29.

Every craving of evil in hell appears, when it is represented, as a noxious animal, either as a 
dragon, or as a basilisk, or as a viper, or as an owl, or as a bat, and so forth; in like manner the 
cravings of evil belonging to a wicked man appear, when he is viewed by angels; all these forms of 
cravings must be converted singly; the man himself who, as to the spirit, appears as a man-monster,
or as a devil, must be converted, that he may become as a beautiful angel, and every craving of evil 
must be converted, that it may appear as a lamb, or a sheep, or as a dove and turtle, after the manner
that the affections of good of the angels in heaven appear, when they are represented; but to convert
a dragon into a lamb, a basilisk into a sheep, and an owl into a dove, can only be effected 
successively, by eradicating evil from its seed, and by implanting good seed in its place. But this 
cannot be done otherwise than comparatively as with the ingrafting of trees, the roots of which 
remain with some trunk, nevertheless the ingrafted branch turns the juice extracted through the old 
root into juice that bears good fruits. The branch which is to be ingrafted cannot be taken from any 
other stock but from the LORD, who is the tree of life, agreeable to the LORD'S words in John 15:1-7.
DP 296.

Man not reformed as to his spirit is like a panther, or like an owl, and may be compared to a 
bramble and a nettle; but a regenerate man is like a sheep or a dove, and may be compared to an 
olive and a vine. How then can a man-panther be converted into a man-sheep, or an owl into a 
dove, or a bramble into an olive, or a nettle into a vine, by any imputation, if by imputation be 
meant transcription? To effect such conversion, is it not necessary that the bestial principle of the 
panther and the owl, or the noxious principle of the bramble and the nettle, be first taken away, and 
thus the truly human and innocent principle be implanted? In what manner this is to be effected, the
LORD also teaches in John 15:1-7. CL 526.

Verse 4. Abide in me, and I in you, &c. Inasmuch as heaven in the whole and in part resembles a 
man by virtue of the Divine Human [principle] of the LORD, therefore the angels say that they are in
the LORD, and some, that they are in his body, by which they understand that they are in the good of
his love; as the LORD himself also teaches, where he says, "Abide in me, and I in you: As the branch
cannot bear fruit from itself except it abide in the vine, so neither can you except you abide in me; 
for without me you can do nothing: Abide in my love: If you keep my precepts, you shall abide in 
my love," John 15:4-10. HH 81.

Hence it is evident what is the quality of the LORD'S presence in the heavens, that it is every where, 
and with every one in the good and truth which proceed from him; consequently that he is in his 
own with the angels; the perception of the LORD'S presence is in their interiors, from which interiors
the eyes see, thus see him out of themselves, because there is continuity [between the eyes and the 
interiors.] Hence it may be manifest how it is to be understood, that the LORD is in them, and they 
in the LORD, according to the LORD'S words, Abide in me, and I in you, John 15:4. HH 147.

The reason why man is only so far in GOD by virtue of divine omnipresence, as he lives according 
to order, is, because GOD is omnipresent, and because where he is in his own divine order, there he 

205

is as in himself, because himself is order, as was shown above. Now since man is created a form of 
divine order, GOD is in him, but, so far as man lives according to divine order, he is in him fully, 
whereas if he does not live according to divine order, GOD is still in him, but in his supreme 
principles, so as to give the faculty of understanding what is true, and of willing what is good, that 
is, the faculty to understand, and the inclination to love; but so far as man lives contrary to order, so
far he closes the lower principles of his mind or spirit, and thus hinders GOD from descending and 
filling his lower principles with his presence, in consequence whereof GOD is in him, hut he is not 
in GOD. It is a general maxim in heaven that GOD is in every man whether evil or good, but that man
is not in GOD, unless he lives according to order; for the LORD says, That he wills that man should 
be in him, and he in man, John 15:4. TCR 70.

The LORD said, God is glorified in him, also, God will glorify him in himself; and again, Glorify 
your Son, that your Son also may glorify you. The reason why the LORD so spoke, is, because 
unification was reciprocal, of the Divine with the Human and of the Human with the Divine. The 
case is similar with all unification, so that unless it be reciprocal, it is not full, therefore the LORD 
says, "Abide in me, and I in you: he that abides in me, and I in him, the same brings forth much 
fruit," John 15:4, 5. Doc. Lord, LORD 35.

In these two principles, freedom and rationality, consists the life, which is called angelical and 
human, from which consideration it may be manifest that an angel has a reciprocal principle for the 
sake of conjunction with the LORD, but that the reciprocal principle, viewed in its own faculty, is 
not his, but the LORD'S. Hence it is that he falls away from what is angelical, if he abuses that 
reciprocal principle, from which he perceives and feels as his own what is the LORD'S, and he 
abuses it by appropriating it to himself. That conjunction is reciprocal, the LORD himself teaches in 
John 15:4, 5, 6; and that the conjunction of the LORD with man, and of man with the LORD, is in 
those things which are of the LORD, which are called his words, verse 7. DLW 116.

From these considerations it is evident that those two faculties, which are called rationality and 
liberty, are from the LORD, and not from, man; and whereas they are from the LORD, it follows that 
man wills and understands nothing at all from himself, but only as from himself. That this is the 
case, every one may confirm in his own mind, who knows and believes that all the will of good, 
and all the understanding of truth, is from the LORD, and not from man, agreeably to the LORD'S 
words, Without me you can do nothing. DP 88.

They who do not immediately approach the LORD, cannot be conjoined to him, thus neither to the 
FATHER, and hence they cannot be principled in love which is from the Divine [Being or Principle;] 
for aspect conjoins, not intellectual aspect alone, but intellectual aspect grounded in the affection of
the will, and the affection of the will is not given, unless man does the LORD'S precepts, wherefore 
the LORD says, "He who does my precepts, he loves me, and I will come to him, and make abode 
with him," John 14:21-24. That all good things of love and charity are and proceed from the LORD, 
when he is in the inmost principle, is evident from the LORD'S words in John 15:4, 5, 6. AR 933.

In regard to aspect, as relating to the LORD, it signifies his divine presence, and the reason is, 
because the LORD knows all, and they in their turn know the LORD, who are principled in love and 
faith towards him, hence it is that the LORD is present with these in the good things of love, and in 
the truths of faith, which appertain to them from him; for those things are the LORD in heaven and 
in the church, since the things which proceed from him are not only his, but are himself; hence it is 
evident, in what manner the LORD is in man, thus in what manner it is to be understood what he 

206

spoke in John, "Abide in me, and I in you; he that abides in me, and I in him, the same brings forth 
much fruit." AE 25.

Verse 5. For apart from me you can do nothing. These words are thus to be understood, that man of
himself cannot procure to himself any other faith than what is natural, which is a persuasion that a 
thing is so, because a man of authority has pronounced it so; neither can he procure to himself any 
other charity than what is natural, which is an endeavour to secure favour for the sake of some 
recompense, in both which [namely natural faith and natural charity] is the selfhood of man, and 
not yet life from the LORD; nevertheless man by both prepares himself to be a receptacle of the 
LORD, and in proportion as he prepares himself, so the LORD enters, and causes his natural faith to 
become spiritual faith, in like manner his charity, and thus both are made alive, which effect takes 
place when man approaches the LORD as the GOD of heaven and earth. TCR 359.

From the above passage it may be concluded, that without the Word no one has any spiritual 
intelligence, which consists in knowing that there is a GOD, a heaven and hell, and a life after death;
without the Word also no one knows any thing of the LORD, of faith and love towards him, thus 
nothing about redemption, by which nevertheless there is salvation. SS 114.

Verse 6. If any one abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and they gather 
them and cast into the fire, and it is burned. Every man, who from natural becomes spiritual, passes
through two states, and through the first is introduced into the second, and thus from the world 
enters into heaven; the first state is called a state of reformation, in which man is in the full liberty 
of acting according to the rational principle of his understanding; and in the second state, which is 
called a state of regeneration, he is likewise in similar liberty, but on this occasion he wills and acts,
and also thinks and speaks, from a new love and a new intelligence which are from the LORD; for in
the first state the understanding is the principal agent, and the will a secondary one; but in the 
second state the will is primary, and the understanding secondary. The man, who stops in the first 
state, and does not enter into the second, is like a tree, which only bears leaves, and not fruits, 
concerning which it is said in the Word, that it is to be rooted up and cast into the fire, John 15:5, 6. 
TCR 105, 106.

Who does not know that a lamb cannot act otherwise than as a lamb, nor a sheep otherwise than as 
a sheep, and on the other hand, a wolf cannot otherwise than as a wolf, and a tiger than as a tiger; 
and that if those beasts were mixed together, the wolf would devour the lamb, and the tiger the 
sheep. Who does not know that a fountain of sweet water cannot from its vein emit bitter water; and
that a good tree cannot produce evil fruits; and that a vine cannot bring forth prickles as a thorn, nor
a lily a sting like a nettle, nor a hyacinth tear the skin like a thistle? Wherefore those evil plants are 
rooted out of fields, vineyards, and gardens, and gathered in heaps to be burned. So also it is with 
the wicked on their arrival in the spiritual world, according to the LORD'S words, Matt 13:30, John 
15:6. TCR 653.

Verse 7. If you abide in me, and my sayings abide in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall 
be done to you. From the perception which men have at this day in relation to faith, it is impossible 
to discover that faith is a complex of truths in every limit of its extension, and still less, that man 
may contribute something towards the attainment of faith in himself; when nevertheless faith in its 
essence is truth, for it is truth in its light, and consequently as truth may be procured, so also may 
faith; for who, if he be so disposed, cannot approach the LORD ? And who again, if he be so 
disposed, cannot collect truths from the Word? And every truth in the Word, and from the Word, is 
lucid, and truth lucid is faith. The LORD, who is light itself, enters by influx into every man, and in 

207

whomsoever he finds truths collected from the Word, in him he enlightens those truths, and so 
makes them constituent of faith; and this is what the LORD says in John, That they should abide in 
him, and his sayings should abide in them, John 15:7; where the sayings of the LORD are truths. 
TCR 349.

From these considerations it may be manifest, that an angel has a reciprocal principle for the sake 
of conjunction with the LORD, but that a reciprocal principle viewed in its own faculty is not his, but
the LORD'S. Hence it is, that if he abuses that reciprocal principle, from which he perceives and is 
made sensible of what is the LORD'S being as his own, which abuse is occasioned by appropriating 
it to himself, he then falls from what is angelical. That conjunction is reciprocal, the LORD himself 
teaches in John 14:20-24; 15:4, 5, 6; and that the conjunction of the LORD with man, and of man 
with the LORD, is in those things which are of the LORD, which are called his sayings, John 15:7. 
DLW 116.

Inasmuch now as the Word is from the LORD alone, and treats of the LORD alone, it follows, that 
when man is taught from the Word, he is taught from the LORD, for the Word is divine. Who can 
communicate what is divine, and impress it on hearts, but the Divine [Being or Principle] itself, 
from whom it is, and of whom it treats? Wherefore the LORD says, where he speaks of his 
conjunction with his disciples, that they should abide in him, and his sayings abide in them. DP 
172.

That they who are in the LORD, and the LORD in them, are in all power, so that they have ability in 
all that they will, the LORD himself declares in John, "If you abide in me, and my words in you, you
shall ask what you will, and it shall be done to you," by which words is described the power of 
those who are in the LORD, since they do not will any thing, and thus do not ask any thing, but from
the LORD, and whatever they will and ask from the LORD, this is done, for the LORD says, Without 
me you cannot do any thing, abide in me, and I in you; such power have the angels in heaven, that 
if they only will any thing, they obtain it; nevertheless they do not will any thing but what is for 
use, and this they will as from themselves, but still from the LORD. AR 951.

Verse 8. In this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit, &c. It is believed in the world, that 
by Glory be to God, is meant, that GOD wills to receive glory from man for the sake of himself, and 
that he is affected with it, and on that account is beneficent, but this is a fallacy, inasmuch as GOD 
wills to receive glory from man for the sake of man, since thus man attributes all things to the 
Divine [Being] and nothing to himself, and when this is the case, the Divine [Being] can then flow 
in with the divine truth, and give to man intelligence and wisdom; thus, and no otherwise, the LORD
is glorified in man; the LORD also loves every one, and from love wills that his glory, that is, divine 
truth, may be in them, which the LORD also teaches in John 15:7, 8. AE 33.

All glorification of the LORD, which is performed by the angels of heaven and by the men of the 
church, is not from themselves, but flows in from the LORD; the glorification which is from men, 
and not from the LORD, is not from the heart, but only from an active principle of memory, and thus
from the mouth, and what proceeds only from those sources, and not from the heart through them, 
is not heard in heaven, thus neither is it received by the LORD, but passes off, like any other sound, 
into the world; this glorification is not acknowledgement from the heart that all good and all truth is
from the LORD. It is said acknowledgement from the heart, and thereby is meant from the life of 
love, for heart in the Word signifies love, and love is a life according to the LORD'S precepts; when 
man is in this life, then there is glorification of the LORD, which is acknowledgement from the 
heart, that all good and truth is from the LORD; this likewise is understood by glorifying in John, "If 

208

you abide in me, and my words abide in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done to 
you; in this is my FATHER glorified, that you bear much fruit, and become my disciples." AE 288.

It was customary amongst the ancients to say, Blessed be GOD, and Blessing be to GOD, also Glory 
and wisdom be to GOD, by which they did not understand that he has blessing, glory, and wisdom, 
inasmuch as he is the source from which all blessing, glory, and wisdom proceed; but they 
understood that those things may be communicated from him to all; thus they expressed 
themselves, to the intent that those things might be referred to GOD alone, and nothing to 
themselves, and that thus they might speak from the Divine [Being or Principle] and not from 
themselves. AE 465.

The reason why giving glory denotes to acknowledge and worship the LORD, is, because to give 
glory signifies that he alone has glory, inasmuch as he is the GOD of heaven and earth, and at the 
same time to acknowledge that all things of the church are from him, thus all salvation and eternal 
life, from which consideration it follows, that to give glory and to glorify, when they relate to GOD, 
denotes to worship and adore him. Glory in the Word, where it is predicated of the LORD, properly 
signifies the divine truth proceeding from him, by reason that divine truth is the light of heaven, and
from that light, angels and men have not only all intelligence and wisdom, but also all happiness, 
and besides all magnificence in the heavens, which is ineffable; these things, therefore, are what are
properly signified by the glory of GOD; and since this is glory, it follows, that the glory of the LORD 
consists in enlightening angels and men, and gifting them with intelligence and wisdom, and 
blessing them with things happy and delightful, and likewise magnifying them with all things in the
heavens, and that this glory is not from the love of glory, but from love towards the human race; 
wherefore the LORD says in John, "In this is my FATHER glorified, that you bear much fruit, and 
become my disciples." AE 673.

Verse 10. If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love, &c. In proportion as any one 
is principled in good, and from good loves truths, in the same proportion he loves the LORD, since 
the LORD is good itself and truth itself; the LORD therefore is with man in good and in truth, and if 
the latter is loved from the former, then the LORD is loved, and no otherwise; this the LORD teaches 
in John, "If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love." The precepts, words, and 
commandments of the LORD are truths. Doc. Life, DLife 38.

Verse 10. If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love, &c. To him, who loves any 
one, and who believes in him, nothing is more the object of his wish, than to will and to do what 
that other wills and thinks; for he only desires to know his will and thought, thus his good pleasure; 
it is otherwise with him, who does not love, neither believe. The case is similar with love to GOD, as
the LORD also teaches in John, "If you keep my commandments, you shall abide in my love; my 
commandment is, that you love one another," John 15:10, 12. AC 10144.

I have occasionally discoursed with the angels on this subject, who have told me how much they 
are surprised that the men of the church do not know, that to love GOD and their neighbour is to love
what is good and true, and from willing it to do it; when yet they may know, that every one testifies 
love by willing and doing what another wills, and that thus he is loved in return, and conjunction is 
effected, and not by loving him, and still not doing his will, which in itself is not to love. And 
likewise that they may know, that the good proceeding from the LORD is a likeness of him, 
inasmuch as he is in it, and that they become likenesses of him, and are conjoined to him, who 
make goodness and truth the properties of their life, by willing and doing; to will also is to love to 

209

do. That this is the case, the LORD also teaches in the Word, "If you keep my commandments you 
shall abide in my love." HH 16.

Verses 14, 15. You are my friends, if you do whatever I command you. Henceforth I call you not 
servants. &c. That to receive divine truth from the LORD in doctrine and life, is to be free, the LORD 
also teaches in the above words; for by friends are here understood such as are free, since friends 
are here opposed to servants. It is therefore added, "All things which I have heard from my FATHER,
I have made known to you, that you may go and bring forth fruit;" where to command and make 
known has relation to doctrine, and to bring forth fruit has relation to life; that these things are from
the LORD, is taught at verse 16, You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and appointed you. 
AE 409.

Verse 16. That whatever you shall ask the Father in my name, he may give it you. By the name of 
GOD is signified all in one complex by which GOD is worshiped, consequently the all of love and of 
faith. AC 2724.

It is not here meant that they should ask the FATHER in the name of the LORD, but that they should 
ask the LORD himself, since there is no other passage open to the divine good, which is the FATHER, 
but by [or through] the Divine Humanity of the LORD, as is also known in the church; wherefore to 
ask the LORD himself, is to ask according to the truths of faith, and what is so asked is granted, as 
he himself says in a former passage in John, "If you shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it." 
This may be still further manifest from this consideration, that the LORD is the name of JEHOVAH, 
concerning which it is thus written in Moses, "I send my angel before you, to keep you in the way, 
beware of his faces, and hear his voice, because my name is in the midst of him," Exodus 23:20, 21.
AC 6674.

See chap. 14:6, Exposition.

Verses 18 to 25. Jesus said, If the world hate you, you know that it hated me before you; because 
you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, for this the world hates you, &c. 
That the LORD'S disciples are hated by all those, who do not think of his divinity at the same time 
that they think of his humanity, cannot be known from those who are in the world, but from the 
same in the other life, where they burn with such hatred against those who approach the LORD 
alone, as cannot be described in a few words, desiring nothing more than to slay them and to 
murder them; the reason is, because all who are in the hells are against the LORD, and all who are in
the heavens are with the LORD; and they who are of the church, and do not acknowledge the 
divinity of the LORD in his humanity, act in unity with the hells, whence they derive so great hatred. 
AE 137.

Verse 26. But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of 
Truth, which proceeds from the Father, he will testify of me. What proceeds from the Divine Human
[principle] of the LORD is divine truth from divine good; hence it is that the Holy Spirit is the holy 
[principle] which proceeds from the LORD; for the Spirit himself does not proceed, but the holy 
[principle] which the Spirit speaks. That the Holy Spirit, which is also called the Comforter, is the 
divine truth proceeding from the Divine Humanity of the LORD, and that holy is predicated of 
divine truth, is manifest from the LORD'S words in John, "When the Comforter is come, whom I will
send to you from the FATHER, the Spirit of Truth, which proceeds from the FATHER, he will testify of
me." AC 6788.

210

The Holy Spirit is the divine truth, and also the divine virtue and operation, proceeding from the 
one only GOD, in whom is a Divine Trinity, consequently proceeding from the LORD GOD the 
Saviour. Properly speaking, the divine truth, and consequently the the Word, is signified by the 
Holy Spirit, and in this sense the LORD himself is also the Holy Spirit; but whereas, in the church at 
this day, the divine operation, which is specified by the Holy Spirit, is actual justification, therefore 
this divine operation is here considered as the Holy Spirit, and of this we now propose chiefly to 
speak, especially as the divine operation is effected by means of the divine truth which proceeds 
from the LORD; and that which proceeds is of one and the same essence with him from whom it 
proceeds, like these three, the soul, the body, and the proceeding virtues, which together form one 
essence, in man a merely human essence, but in the LORD divine and human also, these being, after 
his glorification, united together, like the prior with its posterior, and like essence with its form; 
thus the three essentials, called FATHER, Son, and Holy Spirit, in the LORD are one. That the LORD is 
divine truth, or the very divine truth itself, was shown above; and that the Holy Spirit is also the 
same, is evident from these passages: "There shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and the
Spirit of JEHOVAH shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and intelligence, the spirit of counsel 
and might; he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he
slay the wicked; and righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and truth the girdle of his reins," 
Isaiah 11:1, 4, 5; "When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of JEHOVAH shall lift up a 
standard against him; then shall the Redeemer come to Zion," Isaiah 59:19, 20; "The Spirit of the 
LORD JEHOVIH is upon me, JEHOVAH has anointed me, to preach good tidings to the poor has he sent
me," Isaiah 61:1, Luke 4:18; "This is my covenant, my Spirit that is upon you, and my words which
I have put in your mouth, shall not depart from your mouth from now on and for ever," Isaiah 
59:21. Inasmuch as the LORD is the very truth itself, all that which proceeds from him must of 
necessity be truth: and this is understood by the Comforter, who is also called the Spirit of Truth, 
and the Holy Spirit, as is evident from the following passages: "I tell you the truth; it is expedient 
for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I depart, I 
will send him to you," John 16:7; "Howbeit when he, the Spirit of Truth is come, he will lead you 
into all truth, for he shall not speak of himself, but whatever he shall hear that he shall speak," John
16:13;" He shall glorify me; for he shall receive of Mine, and shall announce it to you. All things 
that the FATHER has are mine, therefore said I that he shall take of mine, and announce it to you," 
John 16:14, 15; "I will ask the FATHER, and he will give you another Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, 
whom the world cannot receive, because it sees him not, neither knows him; but you know him; for
he abides with you, and shall be in you; I will not leave you comfortless, I will come to you; and 
you shall see me," John 14:16, 17, 18, 19; "When the Comforter shall come, whom I will send to 
you from the FATHER, even the Spirit of Truth, he shall testify of me," John 15:26. He is called the 
Holy Spirit, John 14:26. That the LORD by the Comforter, or Holy Spirit, meant himself, is plain 
from these words of the LORD, that the world would not know him, but you know him; I will not 
leave you comfortless, I will come to you, and you shall see me; and in another place, "Lo! I am 
with you always, even to the consummation of the age," Matt 28:20; and also from this, "He shall 
not speak of himself, but he shall take of mine." 

Now for as much as the divine truth, which was in the LORD, and was the LORD, John 14:6, is meant
by the Holy Spirit; and since the Holy Spirit could therefore proceed from him only, it was for this 
reason said, "The Holy Spirit was not yet, because JESUS was not yet glorified," John 7:39; and after
his glorification, "He breathed on his disciples, and said, Receive you the Holy Spirit," John 20:22; 
the reason why the LORD breathed on his disciples, was, because breathing was an external 
representative sign of divine inspiration; and inspiration is an insertion into the angelic societies. 
After these elucidations the understanding will be enabled to comprehend the words of the angel 
Gabriel concerning the conception of the LORD: "The Holy Spirit shall come upon you, and the 

211

power of the Highest shall overshadow you; wherefore that Holy Thing that shall be born of you 
shall be called the Son of GOD," Luke 1:35; again, "The angel of the LORD said to Joseph in a 
dream, Fear not to take to you Mary your bride, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy 
Spirit; and Joseph knew her not till she brought forth her first-born Son," Matt 1:20, 25; the Holy 
Spirit mentioned in these passages is the divine truth proceeding from JEHOVAH the FATHER, and 
this proceeding is the power of the highest which then overshadowed the mother Mary, which 
coincides therefore with what is said in John, "The Word was with Gon, and the Word was GOD, 
and the Word was made flesh," 1:1, 14; that by the Word divine truth is there signified, may be seen
above, in the FAITH OF THE NEW CHURCH, 3. TCR 139, 140.

We will now show that the LORD operates of himself from the FATHER, and not vice versa.

By operating is here meant the same thing as by sending the Holy Spirit, since the above-mentioned
operations of reformation, regeneration, renovation, vivification, sanctification, justification from 
evils, and the remission of sins, which are at this day ascribed to the Holy Spirit, as a GOD by 
himself, are the operations of the LORD. That these operations are of the LORD from the FATHER, and
not vice versa, shall be first confirmed by the Word, and afterwards illustrated by rational 
considerations. First by the Word, from the following passages: "When the Comforter is come, 
whom I will send to you from the father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceeds from the FATHER,
he shall testify of me," John 15:26; "If I go not away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I 
go away, I will send Mm to you" John 16:7; "The Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, shall not speak of 
himself, but shall receive of mine, and shall show it to you; all things that the FATHER has are mine; 
therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shall show it to you," John 16:13, 14, 15; "The Holy 
Spirit was not yet, because JESUS was not yet glorified," John 7:39; JESUS breathed on his disciples, 
and said to them, Receive you the Holy Spirit," John 20:22; "Whatsoever you shall ask in my name,
I will do it, that the FATHER may be glorified in the Son; if you shall ask any thing in my name, I 
will do it," John 14:13, 14. From these passages it plainly appears, that the LORD sends the Holy 
Spirit, that is, that it is he who effects, those operations, which are at this day ascribed to the Holy 
Spirit as a GOD by himself; for it is declared, that he would send the Holy Spirit from the FATHER; 
that the Holy Spirit was not yet, because JESUS was not yet glorified; that after his glorification he 
breathed on his disciples, and said, "Receive you the Holy Spirit;" and further, "whatever," says he, 
"you shall ask in my name, I will do it; for the Comforter shall take of mine, and shall show it to 
you." That the Comforter is the same with the Holy Spirit, may be seen in John 14:26. That GOD the
FATHER does not operate those virtues of himself by the Son, but that the Son operates them of 
himself from the FATHER, is evident from the following passages: "No one has seen GOD at any 
time, the Only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the FATHER, he has manifested him," John 
1:18; and in another place, "You have neither heard the voice of the FATHER at any time, nor seen 
his shape," John 5:37. Hence then it follows, that GOD the FATHER operates in the Son, and upon the
Son, but not by or through the Son, and that the LORD operates of himself from the FATHER, for he 
says, "All things that the FATHER bath are mine," John 16:15; "That the FATHER has given all things 
into the hand of the Son," John 3:35; also, "That as the FATHER has life in himself, so has he given 
to the Son to have life in himself," John 5:26; and further, "The words that I speak are Spirit and 
Life," John 6:63. The reason why the LORD says that the Spirit of Truth proceeds from the FATHER, 
John 15:26, is, because it proceeds from GOD the FATHER into the Son, and out of the Son from the 
FATHER; wherefore also he says, "In that day you shall know that I am in the FATHER, and the 
FATHER in me, and you in me, and I in you," John 14:11, 20. From these plain declarations of the 
LORD, it is easy to discover the error which generally prevails throughout the Christian world, that 
GOD the FATHER sends the Holy Spirit to mankind; and also the error of the Greek church, that GOD 
the FATHER immediately sends the Holy Spirit. This truth concerning the LORD'S sending the Holy 

212

Spirit out of himself from GOD the FATHER, and not vice versa, is of heavenly extraction, and the 
angels call it an Arcanum, because it was never before discovered to the world.

What is here asserted may also be illustrated and explained by many suggestions of reason; as for 
instance: It is well known that, the apostles, after they had received from the LORD the gift of the 
Holy Spirit, preached the Gospel through a great part of the world, and that they published it both 
by their discourses and writings; and this they did of themselves from the LORD; for Peter taught 
and wrote in one manner, James in another, John in another, and Paul in another, each according to 
his own particular intelligence; the LORD filled them all with his Spirit, but each took a portion 
according to the quality of his peculiar perception, and exercised it according to the quality of his 
strength or power. All the angels in the heavens are filled with the LORD, for they are in the LORD, 
and the LORD in them; but nevertheless every one of them speaks and acts according to the state of 
his own mind, some in simplicity, some in wisdom, with an infinite variety; and yet every one 
speaks and acts of himself from the LORD. The case is the same with every minister in the church, 
whether he be under the influence of the truth, or of the false; each has his own peculiar expression 
and intelligence, and each speaks from his own mind, that is, from the spirit which he possesses as 
his own. So in the case of Protestants, whether they be called Evangelical or Reformed: after they 
are instructed in the tenets of their particular leaders, as Luther, Melancthon, or Calvin, it cannot 
with propriety be said, that those leaders or their tenets speak of themselves by their disciples, but 
that those disciples speak of themselves from their leaders and their tenets; for every particular 
tenet may be explained a thousand different ways, being like a cornucopia, from which each person
draws forth what favours, and is suited to, his own peculiar genius, and then explains it according 
to his peculiar talent. This may be illustrated also by the action of the heart in and upon the lungs, 
and by the re-action of the lungs of themselves from the heart: these are two distinct actions, which,
nevertheless, are reciprocally united; for the lungs respire of themselves from the heart, but the 
heart does not respire through the lungs; if this were the case the action of both would stop. The 
case is similar with respect to the action of the heart in and upon the viscera of the whole body: the 
heart propels the blood in every direction, and the viscera imbibe it by virtue of that propulsion, 
each its share according to the kind of use which it performs in the body, according to which each 
also acts, consequently the action of each is different. 

The same truth is capable of receiving further illustration from this circumstance relating to the 
nature and state of man: evil derived from parents, which is therefore called hereditary, acts in and 
upon every man; so, also, does good from the LORD; the latter acting from above or from within, 
the former from beneath or from without: if now evil acted by or through man, he would not be 
capable of reformation, nor yet a subject of blame, and in like manner, if the LORD thus acted by or 
through him, he would not be capable of reformation; but since each depends on the free choice of 
man, he becomes guilty when he acts of himself from evil, and guiltless when he acts of himself 
from good; and whereas evil is the devil, and good is the LORD, he becomes guilty if he acts from 
the devil, and guiltless if he acts from the LORD: thus the capacity of reformation is owing to this 
freedom of choice, with which every man is endowed. The case is the same with the internal and 
external of man, these are perfectly distinct from each other, and yet reciprocally united; the 
internal acts in and upon the external, but not by or through it; for in the internal innumerable 
particulars are involved, from which the external takes only what is suited to its purposes: for in the
internal of man, by which is understood his mind, consisting of the will and perceptive faculty, 
there are such volumes of accumulated ideas, that were they to flow out through the organs of 
speech, they might be compared with the violent rushing of wind from a pair of bellows. The 
internal, by reason of the universals included in it, resembles an ocean, or a flower bed, or a garden,
from whose stores the external selects as much as is sufficient for its use. The Word of the LORD 

213

resembles this ocean, flower-bed, or garden, and when it dwells in some degree of fullness in the 
internal of man, he then speaks and acts of himself from the Word, and not the Word by or through 
him. It is so likewise with the LORD, who is himself the Word, that is, the divine truth and the divine
good therein: he acts from himself, or from the Word, in and upon man, but not by or through him, 
inasmuch as man acts and speaks freely of himself from the LORD, whilst he acts and speaks from 
the Word. But this will admit of still more familiar illustration from the mutual exchange which 
subsists between the soul and the body, which are two substances distinct from each other, but yet 
reciprocally united: the soul acts in and upon the body, but not by or through it; for the body acts of 
itself from the soul: it is plain that the soul does not act by or through the body, inasmuch as they do
not consult and deliberate with each other; nor does the soul command or request the body to do, or
to say, this thing or that; nor does the body, on the other hand, require or request the soul to give 
and supply it with its power and assistance; for all that the one has belongs to the other, and this 
mutually and reciprocally. Just so is it in respect to the LORD'S divinity and humanity; for the 
divinity of the FATHER is the soul of his humanity, and the humanity is his body; and the humanity 
does not inquire of its divinity what it shall speak or what it shall do; wherefore the LORD says, "At 
that day you shall ask in my name; and I say not to you that I will pray the FATHER for you, for the 
FATHER himself loves you because you have loved me," John 16:26, 27; at that day, means after his 
glorification, that is, after his perfect and complete union with the FATHER. This is an arcanum 
revealed from the LORD himself, intended for the use of those who shall become members of his 
New Church. TCR 153, 154.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 8. In this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit, and become my disciples. In the common 
version of the New Testament, what is here rendered, And become my disciples, is rendered, So shall you be 
my disciples; but in the original Greek it is literally, And become my disciples, thus inculcating the edifying 
lesson, that the Father is glorified, or the divine good manifested, in proportion as mankind abound in love 
and charity, signified by bearing much fruit, and are receptive also of heavenly truth, signified by becoming 
my disciples, thus in proportion as mankind attain the heavenly marriage of good and truth, so continually 
pointed at in the Word throughout, as constituting the sum and substance of man's regeneration and 
salvation.

Verse 11. These things have I spoken to you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be 
filled, from which words it is evident that it is not the divine intention to annihilate human joys, but rather to 
preserve them, by filling them with divine joy.

Verse 15. Henceforth I call you not servants, but I have called you friends. It is remarkable that in the 
original Greek, what is here rendered I call, is expressed by the verb lego, whereas what is rendered I have 
called, is expressed by the verb eireka, from the root eiro, whence it is evident that the term eiro is 
expressive of a more interior idea than the term lego.

Verse 16. You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and appointed you, that you may go, and bear 
fruit, and your fruit remain. These words, in their connected sense, are expressive of the whole of man's 
regeneration, as being a divine work, yet requiring man's co-operation. For when the LORD says, You have 
not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and appointed you, he manifestly meant to teach, that all the love 
signified by choosing, and all the truth signified by appointing, are from himself alone, and not at all from 
man. Again, when he says, That you may go, and bear fruit, and your fruit remain, he as manifestly teaches 
the necessity of co-operation on the part of man, since to go signifies to live according to the love of truth 
communicated from above, whilst to bear fruit, has reference to the love and wisdom thereby acquired in the
internal man, and your fruit remain, has reference to the same love and wisdom manifested and fixed by 
good works in the external man.

214

Verse 26. But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send, &c. In respect to the extracts adduced to 
illustrate this verse, we cannot but observe, that the doctrine here asserted is most new and most instructive, 
and has therefore a particular claim on our attention. The unity of action and operation in the Godhead is 
here insisted on and preserved; at the same time the true object of Christian worship is clearly pointed out, 
and proved to be the LORD'S Divine Humanity, that being, from the FATHER, the operator of all holy graces 
and virtues; so that the soul which approaches thereto in sincere obedience, has thereby the highest and 
fullest conjunction at the same time with the invisible FATHER, through the Holy Spirit, or the divine 
proceeding, which is here plainly shown to mean nothing more, nor less, than the operation of the LORD'S 
Divine Humanity. We shall only further observe, that the rational illustration of this doctrine, given by the 
author, tends to open to the serious mind many edifying truths, respecting the self-activity of the human soul,
as reconcileable with the all-activity of the LORD, and the true nature of human liberty, as highly consistent 
with the all-ruling sovereignty of the divine power and operation.

215

John Chapter 16

Chapter 16

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. THESE things have I spoken to 
you, that you should not be 
offended.

2. They shall put you out of the 

synagogue; but the hour comes, 
that everyone that kills you will 
think that he offers sacred worship 
to GOD.

3. And these things will they do to 

you, because they have not known 
the FATHER nor me.

4. But these things have I spoken to 

you, that when the hour comes, you
may remember them, because I 
said them to you; but these things I 
said not to you from the beginning, 
because I was with you,

5. But now I go away to him that sent 
me, and none of you asks me, 
Whither go you away?

6. But because I have spoken these 
things to you, sorrow has filled 
your heart.

7. But I tell you the truth; it is 

expedient for you that I go away; 
for if I go not away, the Comforter 
will not come to you; but if I 
depart, I will send him to you.

8. And when he is come, he will 

reprove the world about sin, and 
about justice, and about judgement.

THAT through the power of divine truth there is 
protection in the time of persecution, when worship 
shall become merely external, through the extinction 
of all heavenly good and truth, resulting from the 
non-acknowledgement of the divinity of the LORD'S 
humanity, vs 1, 2, 3.

Which things are manifested to the understanding, to
the intent that they may affect the will and love, and 
be thus acknowledged to be of divine prediction, in 
relation to a future state of the church, when the 
divine operation was no longer to be external, or by 
truth, but internal, or by good, of which state they, 
who are principled in truth, are not yet aware, vs 4, 
5, 6.

For truth, in its external manifestation, must 
apparently be taken away, to the intent that it may be 
received again internally, and by such internal 
manifestation may remove from man the powers of 
evil and error, and establish in him the heavenly 
powers of good and truth, vs 7, 8.

216

All which evil and error result from the non-
acknowledgement of the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, 
whilst the glorification of this humanity, together 
with the subjugation of the powers of darkness, 
constitute the all of good and of truth, vs 9, 10, 11.

Therefore a limit is set to the instruction of truth 
externally, but not to the reception of truth internally,
because internal truth is in connection with divine 
good and truth, and thus leads man to depend on the 
LORD in all states of life, vs 12, 13.

For internal truth is the operation of the LORD'S 
DIVINE HUMANITY, and thus the medium of 
communication with the divine truth in its union with
the divine good, and therefore it succeeds the 
external manifestation of truth, vs 14, 15, 16.

9. About sin indeed, because they 

believe not in me.

10. But about justice, because I go 

away to my FATHER, and you see 
me no more.

11. But about judgement, because the 
prince of this world is judged.

12. I have yet many things to say to 

you, but you cannot bear them now.

13. But when he shall come, the Spirit 
of Truth, he will lead you into all 
truth; for he will not speak of 
himself, but whatever things he 
shall hear, [those] he will speak; 
and he will announce to you things 
to come.

14. He will glorify me for he shall 
receive of mine, and shall 
announce it to you.

15. All things whatever the FATHER 

has, are mine; therefore said I that 
he shall receive of mine, and shall 
announce to you.

16. A little while, and you shall not see 
me; and again a little while, and 
you shall behold me, because I go 
away to the FATHER.

217

This doctrine however, is with difficulty 
apprehended by those who receive truth only 
externally, until they are instructed that the external 
reception of truth leads man into spiritual 
temptations, and that by those temptations his state is
inverted, and he is thus led to receive truth internally,
or in its connection with the divine truth, vs 17, 18, 
19, 20.

For every state of spiritual temptation is attended 
with trouble, but when the temptation is past, the 
trouble is succeeded by joy, through the 
manifestation and operation of the divine truth, vs 
21, 22.

17. Then said [some] of his disciples 

one to another, What is this that he 
says to us, a little while, and you 
shall not see me; and again, a little 
while, and you shall behold me, 
and because I go to the FATHER ?

18. They said therefore, What is this 
that he says, a little while? We 
know not what he speaks.

19. Then JESUS knew that they were 
desirous to ask him, and said to 
them, Do you enquire one with 
another of that I said, a little while, 
and you shall not see me, and again
a little while, and you shall behold 
me?

20. Verily, verily, I say to you, that you 
shall weep and lament, but the 
world shall rejoice; but you shall be
sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be 
turned into joy.

21. A woman, when she is in travail, 
has sorrow, because her hour is 
come; but when the child is born, 
she remembers no more the 
anguish, for joy that a man is born 
into the world.

22. And you now therefore indeed have
sorrow; but I will see you again, 
and your heart shall rejoice, and 
your joy no one takes from you.

23. And in that day you shall ask me 

nothing. Verily, verily, I say to you,
that whatever things you shall ask 
the FATHER in my name, he will 
give you.

On which occasion, the guidance of external truth is 
no longer sought for, but the guidance of internal 
truth in connection with the LORD'S DIVINE 
HUMANITY, which alone brings fullness of 
satisfaction, vs 23, 24.

24. Hitherto you have asked nothing in 

my name; ask, and you shall 
receive, that your joy may be filled.

218

Therefore the instruction of external truth must 
precede, and be succeeded by that which is internal, 
in which case the LORD in his DIVINE HUMANITY will
be exalted as the supreme object of worship, who 
from mercy intercedes for all, and conjoins himself 
to all, who from love acknowledge him in that 
Humanity as the manifested JEHOVAH, vs 25, 26, 27.

For the divine principle itself assumed the human, 
and became a man, and afterwards united the human 
essence to the divine, thus convincing, by the light of
internal truth, all who are willing to be convinced, 
that the human essence of the LORD is divine, vs 28, 
29, 30.

Nevertheless the loves of self and of the world will 
operate to obscure this truth even with the well 
disposed, and therefore all such are instructed, that 
the acknowledgement of this truth leads to 
conjunction of life with the LORD, and that therefore 
whatever of temptation may arise from the above 
evil loves, they ought the more to confide in the 
LORD, who has subdued all infernal evils and falses, 
vs 31, 32, 33.

25. These things have I spoken to you 
in proverbs; but the hour comes, 
when I will no more speak to you 
in proverbs, but will announce to 
you plainly concerning the FATHER.

26. In that day you shall ask in my 

name; and I say not to you, that I 
will pray the FATHER for you:

27. For the FATHER himself loves you, 
because you have loved me, and 
have believed that I came forth 
from GOD.

28. I came forth from the FATHER, and 
am come into the world; again I 
leave the world, and go to the 
FATHER.

29. His disciples say to him, Lo, now 
speak you plainly, and say no 
proverb.

30. Now we know that you know all 

things, and needest not that any one
should ask you. In this we believe 
that you earnest forth from GOD.

31. JESUS answered them, Do you now 

believe?

32. Behold, the hour comes, and is now
come, that you shall be scattered 
every one to his own, and shall 
leave me alone; and I am not alone,
because the FATHER is with me.

33. These things have I spoken to you, 
that in me you might have peace: In
the world you shall have 
tribulation: but take courage, I have
overcome the world.

Exposition.

Verse 2. The hour comes that every one that kills you will think that he offers sacred worship to 
God. In this passage by killing, is signified to deprive of spiritual life, that is, of faith and charity, 
for by the disciples are signified all things of truth and good, of faith and charity. AC 8902.

219

The LORD says these words to the disciples, but by the disciples are meant all those who worship 
the LORD, and live according to the truths of his Word; these, the wicked in the world of spirits are 
continually desirous to kill, but whereas they cannot do this as to the body, they are continually 
desirous to do it as to the soul; and when they cannot do this, they burn with such hatred against 
them, that nothing is more delightful to them than to do them mischief. That to kill in the Word 
signifies to destroy souls, which is spiritually to kill, is evident from many passages there, as from 
the following, Isaiah 14:19, 20, 21; 26:21; Jer 25:33; Lam 2:21; Ezek 9:1, 6; John 16:2; Rev 18:24. 
AR 325.

The above words were spoken to the disciples, and by the disciples in the representative spiritual 
sense are meant all the truths and goods of the church; hence it is evident what is meant in that 
sense by killing them, namely that they shall then destroy the goods and truths of the church. AE 
315.

Verses 5, 7. But now I go away to him that sent me. See Extract verse 26 of the foregoing chapter.

To go to the Father, in the above passage denotes to unite the human essence to the divine essence. 
AC 3736. See also AE 852, and AR 962.

That the LORD was divine truth when in the world, is evident also from the LORD'S words; for he 
says, that he would send another Comforter, (that is, in place of himself) or the Spirit of Truth; and 
of himself he says, that they know him, because he remains with you, and is amongst you; and 
likewise, "I say the truth to you, if I go not away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I go 
away, I will send him to you." AC 9199. See also AE 228.

Verses 8, 9, 10, 11. And when he is come, he will reprove the world about sin, and about justice, 
and about judgement, &c. Sin in this passage denotes all infidelity; to reprove about justice is about
every thing which is contrary to good, when yet the LORD united the human principle to the divine, 
that he might save the world, which is meant by I go to the Father, and you shall see me no more; 
about judgement, means about every thing that is contrary to truth, when yet evils are cast down 
into their hells, that they can no longer do mischief, which is meant by the prince of the world 
being judged. In general to reprove about sin, justice, and judgement, denotes about all infidelity 
contrary to what is good and true, thus about there being no charity and faith, for by justice and 
judgement, in ancient times, in respect to the LORD, was meant all mercy and grace, and in respect 
to man all charity and faith. AC 2235.

Verse 13. Whatsoever things he shall hear, he will speak. Whatsoever things he shall hear, denotes 
whatever things he shall receive from the LORD. AC 9311.

The Divine Spiritual principle, which proceeds from the LORD, is called in the Word the Spirit of 
Truth, and is holy truth, and is not of any spirit, but is of the LORD, by a spirit sent from the LORD, 
as may be manifest from the words of the LORD himself in John, "When he shall come, the Spirit of 
Truth, he shall lead you into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever things he 
shall hear, he will speak, he will also announce to you things to come. He will glorify me, because 
he shall receive of mine, and shall announce it to you." AC 3969.

The truth, which immediately proceeds from the Divine [Being or principle] cannot be heard by 
any one, not even by any angel; for to the intent that what is divine may be heard, it must first 
become human, and it becomes human when it passes through the heavens, and when it has passed 

220

through the heavens it is presented in a human form, and becomes speech, which speech is uttered 
by spirits, who, when they are in that state, are called the Holy Spirit, and this Spirit is said to 
proceed from the LORD, because the holy principle of the spirit, or the holy truth which that Spirit 
then speaks, proceeds from the LORD. From these considerations it may be manifest that the truth, 
which proceeds immediately from the Divine [Being or principle] cannot be presented to any one as
discourse or speech, except by the Holy Spirit. AC 6982.

That when the LORD was glorified, the divine truth proceeds from him, he himself teaches in John, 
"The Comforter, the Spirit of Truth, whom I will send to you, shall not speak from himself, he shall
glorify me, because he shall receive from mine, and shall announce it to you." AC 10053.

That the Holy Spirit is the same with the LORD, and that it is the truth itself, from which man has 
illustration, is evident from these words, "JESUS said, When the Spirit of Truth shall come, he shall 
lead you into all truth; he shall not speak from himself, but whatever things he shall hear, he shall 
speak; he shall glorify me, because he shall receive of mine, and shall announce it to you;" from 
which words it is evident that the truth itself, which proceeds from the LORD, is called the Holy 
Spirit, which truth, as being in light, enlightens. Divine Love and Wisdom, 149. See also AR 819.

Verse 15. All things whatever the Father has are mine, That the LORD so often attributes to the 
FATHER what is his, has been explained above, AC 1999, 2004; for JEHOVAH was in him, 
consequently in singular the things belonging to him; this may be illustrated by, though not 
compared with, what is similar in respect to man; for the soul of man is in him, and because it is in 
him, it is in things most singular belonging to him, namely in the most singular things of his 
thought, and in the most singular things of his action; whatever has not his soul in it, is not his; the 
soul of the LORD was life itself, or esse itself, which is JEHOVAH, for he was conceived of JEHOVAH, 
thus it was in the most singular things belonging to him; and since life itself, or esse itself, which is 
JEHOVAH, was his, as the soul is man's, so his was what is JEHOVAH'S, according to his words, that 
all things which the Father has are his. AC 2025.

Inasmuch as the FATHER and he were one, therefore also he says, All things which the Father has 
are mine, and that therefore the Comforter, who is the Holy Spirit, was to receive from the LORD 
what he should speak, John xvi.13, 14, 15. AE 852.

Verse 23. Verily, verily, I say to you, that whatever things you shall ask the Father in my name, he 
will give you. Inasmuch as John saw those who were clothed in white garments, and desired to 
know and to ask who they were, and this was perceived in heaven, therefore he was first 
interrogated, and next informed. The case was similar with the prophet Zechariah, when he saw 
several things represented to him, as may be manifest from Zech 1:9; 2:2, 4; 4:2, 5, 11, 12; 5:2, 6, 
10; 6:4. Moreover in the Word we frequently read that the LORD answers when they call upon him 
and cry; also that he gives when men ask; nevertheless the LORD gives them to ask and what they 
shall ask, wherefore the LORD knows it before, but still he wills that man should first ask, to the 
intent that he should ask as from himself, and thus what he asks may be appropriated to him. AR 
376.

Since the union of the LORD'S divinity and humanity is like the union of soul and body, and no one 
can come to the soul of man, but to the man himself, therefore the LORD says, that they should 
come to him, and should ask the Father in his name, and that he would give to them, John 16:23, 
24. AE 852.

221

Verses 26, 27. The Word of the LORD is like an ocean, a shrubbery, and a garden; when the Word is 
in any fullness in the internal of man, then the man speaks and acts of himself from the Word, and 
not the Word by him. The case is similar with the LORD, because he is the Word, that is, divine truth
and divine good in the Word; the LORD from himself or the Word acts in man, and into him, but not 
by him, inasmuch as man acts and speaks freely from the LORD, whilst from the Word. But this may
be more properly illustrated by the mutual commerce of soul and body, which being two distinct 
principles, but reciprocally united, the soul acts in the body and into the body, but not by the body, 
and the body acts of itself from the soul; the reason why the soul does not act by the body, is, 
because they do not consult and deliberate with each other, nor does the soul command or force the 
body to do this or that, or speak from its mouth, nor does the body require or ask the soul to give 
and supply any thing, for all of the soul is the body's, mutually and reciprocally. The case is similar 
with the divinity and humanity of the LORD, for the divinity of the FATHER is the soul of his 
humanity, and the humanity is his body, and the humanity does not ask its divinity what it should 
speak and operate, wherefore the LORD says, "In that day you shall ask in my name, and I say not to
you that I will ask the FATHER for you, for the FATHER himself loves you, because you have loved 
me." In that day, denotes after glorification, that is, after perfect and absolute union with the 
FATHER. TCR 154.

Verse 28. I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world, &c. By coming forth from the 
Father is to be understood, that the Divine [principle] itself assumed the human; by coming into the
world is signified that he was as a man, and by going to the Father, that he united the human 
essence to the divine essence. AC 3736.

In order to illustrate what is meant by coming forth, or proceeding, the following examples may 
serve. It is said of truth that it comes forth or proceeds from good, when truth is the form of good, 
or when truth is good in a form, which the understanding can apprehend; it may also be said of the 
understanding, that it comes forth or proceeds from the will, when the understanding is the will 
formed, or when it is will in a form apperceivable to the internal sight. In like manner it may be 
said of thought which is of the understanding, that it comes forth or proceeds, when it becomes 
speech, and of will when it becomes action; thought clothes itself with another form when it 
becomes speech, but still it is thought which so comes forth or proceeds, for the words and sounds, 
which are put on, are nothing but adjects, which cause the thought to be appropriately apperceived; 
in like manner will becomes another form, when it becomes action, but still it is will which is 
presented in form; for the gestures and motions, which are put on, are nothing but adjects, which 
cause the will to appear and affect appropriately. It may also be said concerning the external man, 
that he comes forth or proceeds from the internal, yea, substantially, because the external man is 
nothing else than the internal, so formed that he may act agreeably in the world in which he is: from
these considerations it may be manifest, what is meant by coming forth or proceeding in the 
spiritual sense, namely that when it is predicated of the LORD, it denotes the Divine [Being or 
principle] formed as a man, thus accommodated to the perception of those who believe; yet both are
one. AC 5337.

The LORD taught that he was no longer JEHOVAH under the form of an angel, but that he was 
JEHOVAH-MAN, by these words, I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world; again I 
leave the world, and go to the Father. AC 9315.

That the divine good of the divine love, which is the FATHER, was united to divine truth, which is 
the Son, reciprocally in the LORD, and that hence his Human [principle] itself is divine good, is 

222

signified by coming forth from the Father, and coining into the world, and going to the Father, AC 
10067.

Verse 33. Jesus said, These things have I spoken to you, that in me you may have peace; in which 
passage, in the supreme sense, peace signifies the LORD; in the representative sense his kingdom, 
and good from the LORD there, thus the Divine [principle] which flows into good, or into the 
affections of good, and which from an inmost principle makes joy and happiness. AC 3780.

By peace is here meant internal delight arising from conjunction with the LORD, whence comes 
heaven and eternal joy; peace is here opposed to tribulation; because by tribulation is signified 
infestation from evils and falses, which infestation attends those who are in divine peace, so long as
they live in the world, since the flesh, which they then carry about them, covets those things which 
are of the world, whence comes tribulation; wherefore the LORD says, that in me you may have 
peace, in the world you shall have tribulation; and whereas the LORD as to his Human [principle] 
acquired to himself, power over the hells, thus over the evils and falses which arise thence into the 
flesh with every one, and infest him, therefore he says, take courage, I have overcome the world. 
AE 365.

In the world you shall have tribulation. By tribulation is manifestly meant temptation. AC 1846.

I have overcome the world. It is to be noted, that the Last Judgement was effected upon those, who 
have lived from the time of the LORD to this day, but not upon those who lived before. For on this 
earth a Last Judgement had twice before taken place, one which is described in the Word by the 
flood, the other accomplished by the LORD himself, when he was in the world, which is also meant 
by these words of the LORD, I have overcome the world. Last Judgement, 46.

By the LORD overcoming the world, is meant, that he subdued all the hells; for the world in this 
passage signifies all evils and falses which are from hell, as likewise in John 8:23; 12:31; 14:17, 19,
30; 15:18, 19; 16:8, 11; 17:9, 14, 16. AE 359.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 2. The hour comes that any one that kills you will think that he offers sacred worship to God. What is 
here rendered offers sacred worship to God, is expressed in the common version of the New Testament by 
does God service, but the words in the original literally mean to offer sacred worship to God, thus 
inculcating the awful lesson, that in the latter days the worship of GOD will become merely external, through 
the extinction of all true faith and charity.

Verse 4. But these things have I spoken to you, that when the hour comes, you may remember them, because 
I said them to you. In the common version of the New Testament, these words are thus rendered, But these 
things have I told you, that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you of them; in which 
rendering no distinction is made between speaking and saying, both terms being expressed by the same verb,
told; neither is the idea given that the things spoken were to be remembered, but only that the speaker was to
be remembered; whereas in the original, distinct mention is made of speaking and saying, and it is also 
expressly said, that the things spoken were to be remembered, as well as the divine speaker.

Verse 16. A little while, and you shall not see me; and again, a little while and you shall behold me. A 
distinction is here made, which has not been attended to in the common version of the New Testament, 
between seeing and beholding, the former term being expressed in the original by theoreite, and the latter by 
opsesthe, thus instructing us, not only that there are different degrees of intellectual sight, or vision, but that 
the sight expressed by the term opsesthe, as relating to the LORD in his state of glorification, is more interior 

223

than what is expressed by the term theoreite, which latter sight has relation to the LORD in his state of 
humiliation.

Verse 21. A woman, when she is in travail, has sorrow, because her hour is come, but when the child is born,
she remembers no more her anguish. A distinction is here made between sorrow and anguish, which are 
expressed in the original by the terms lupe and thlipsis, the former term having relation to the pain 
experienced in the moment of suffering, and the latter to the recollection of it when it is past.

Verse 27. The Father himself loves you, because you have loved me. The original term expressive of love, in 
both these cases, is philo, which relates rather to friendship than to love, thus denoting the affection 
grounded in the intelligence of truth, more than in the love of good.

224

John Chapter 17

Chapter 17

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. THESE things spoke JESUS, and 
lifted up his eyes to heaven, and 
said, FATHER, the hour is come; 
glorify your Son, that your Son also
may glorify you.

2. As you have given him power over 
all flesh, that [as to] every thing 
which you have given him, he 
might give to them eternal life.

3. But this is eternal life, that they 

might know you the only true GOD, 
and whom you have sent, JESUS 
CHRIST.

4.

I have glorified you on the earth; I 
have finished the work that you 
have given me to do.

5. And now, O FATHER, glorify me 

with yourself, with the glory which 
I had with you before the world 
was.

6.

I have manifested your name to the 
men whom you have given me out 
of the world; your they were, and 
you have given them to me, and 
they have kept your Word.

7. Now they have known that all 

things whatever you have given me
are of you.

8. Because the sayings which you 

have given me, I have given them; 
and they have received, and have 
known truly that I came forth from 
you, and they have believed that 
you did send me.

THAT the LORD, perceiving from his divine truth, 
that his Humanity was in a state capable of being 
fully united to his Divinity, is led from his divine 
love to desire that union, vs 1.

That thus he might be the GOD of heaven and earth, 
and communicate his divine love and wisdom to all 
who were prepared to receive, vs 2.

Which divine love and wisdom consist in the heart-
felt acknowledgement, that in the LORD, GOD is MAN,
and MAN GOD, in One Divine Person, and that by and
through the MANHOOD, of HUMANITY, the eternal 
GODHEAD, or DIVINITY, is made known in the 
church, and the great work of man's redemption 
completed, vs 3, 4.

Which work required that the DIVINITY and 
HUMANITY should be made eternally one, as the 
divine love and divine wisdom are eternally one, and
that thus mankind should become acquainted with 
the nature of that worship which the divinity 
requires, and should transfer all worship from the 
invisible DIVINITY to the visible DIVINE HUMANITY, 
living according to his precepts, vs 5, 6.

And acknowledging that in the DIVINE HUMANITY 
are contained all things of the DIVINITY, and that 
through and by the DIVINE HUMANITY is 
communicated divine love and divine wisdom to 
such as can receive it, who are thus taught that the 
HUMANITY is from the DIVINITY, and that a right faith
consists in so believing, vs 7, 8.

225

9.

I pray for them; I pray not for the 
world, but for them whom you 
have given me, because they are 
your.

10. And all mine are your, and your are
mine; and I am glorified in them.

Because through the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY they 
have continual access to the divine good, which 
otherwise they could not have, and thus are 
convinced that the union of the DIVINITY and 
HUMANITY is reciprocal, and that the DIVINE 
HUMANITY, through that union, is all in all in heaven 
and in the church, vs 9, 10.

11. And I am no longer in the world, 
but they are in the world, and I 
come to you. Holy FATHER, keep 
them in your name whom you have
given me, that they may be one as 
we.

Imparting the good of heavenly love and life to all 
who desire it, that they also may have reciprocal 
conjunction with the HUMANITY, as the humanity has
reciprocal union with the DIVINITY, and may thus be 
preserved from evils and falses, according to 
prediction, vs 11, 12.

12. When I was with them in the 

world, I kept them in your name; 
those whom you have given me I 
have guarded, and none of them 
has perished but the son of 
perdition, that the Scripture might 
be fulfilled.

13. But now I come to you, and these 
things I speak in the world, that 
they might have my joy fulfilled in 
them.

14. I have given to them your Word, 
and the world has hated them, 
because they are not of the world, 
as I am not of the world.

15. I pray not that you would take them
out of the world, but that you 
would keep them from the evil.

16. They are not of the world, as I am 

not of the world.

17. Sanctify them in your truth; your 

Word is truth.

18. As you have sent me into the 

world, I also have sent them into 
the world.

19. And for their sakes I sanctify 
myself, that they also may be 
sanctified in truth.

And through the eternal truth may attain conjunction 
with heavenly good, and thus be admitted into 
spiritual temptations, which are permitted for final 
purification and deliverance from evil, in like 
manner as the LORD by temptation-combats made his
humanity divine, vs 13, 14, 15, 16.

For the eternal truth, or the Word, is the only 
medium of man's purification, and therefore all, who 
receive the truth, pass through a similar process of 
purification and trial with the LORD himself, and as 
he thereby glorified or made divine his humanity, in 
like manner they become spiritual, and are 
regenerated, vs 17, 18, 19.

226

For the divine love is willing to draw all to itself, and
therefore the end of the LORD'S glorification of his 
humanity was, that he might gift mankind with 
intelligence and wisdom, and thus lead them to 
conjunction of life and love with himself in every 
process of their purification and regeneration, vs 20, 
21, 22, 23.

And that thus they might live perpetually in the light 
of the divine presence, and be made sensible of the 
divine love, and by the acknowledgement of the 
reciprocal union of the DIVINITY and HUMANITY, 
might no longer remain in evil and error, but attain to
eternal conjunction with the LORD, in love and in 
truth, vs 24, 25, 26.

20. But I pray not for these alone, but 
also for them that believe in me by 
[or through] their word.

21. That they all may be one, as you, 
FATHER, in me, and I in you, that 
they also may be one in us; that the 
world may believe that you have 
sent me.

22. And I have given to them the glory,
which you have given to me, that 
they may be one, even as we are 
one.

23. I in them, and you in me, that they 
may be perfected into one, and that 
the world may know that you have 
sent me, and have loved them, as 
you have loved me.

24. Father, I will that they also, whom 
you have given me, may be with 
me where I am, that they may see 
my glory which you have given 
me, because you loved me before 
the foundation of the world.

25. O just FATHER, and the world has 
not known you, but I have known 
you, and these have known that you
have sent me.

26. And I have made known to them 

your name, and will make known, 
that the love with which you have 
loved me, may be in them, and I in 
them.

Exposition.

Verse 1. Father, glorify your Son, that your Son also may glorify you. By the Son is here meant the 
divine truth, and by the Father the divine good; the reason is, because the union of the divine 
essence with the human, and of the human with the divine, is the divine marriage of good with 
truth, and of truth with good, from which comes the heavenly marriage; hence it may be manifest 
what is the quality of the union of the Divine and Human [principles] in the LORD, namely that it is 
mutual or reciprocal. AC 2803.

227

That the Human [principle] of the LORD was glorified, is manifest from those things which are said 
of his glorification by the evangelists, as where it is written, Jesus said, Father, the hour is come, 
glorify your Son, that your Son also may glorify you. Doc. Lord, 35. See also AC 10053.

Verse 2. As you have given him power over all flesh. That by giving is here denoted what is from 
the proprium, may be manifest from the signification of giving, when it is predicated of the LORD; 
for the LORD is divine good and likewise divine truth, and the former is what is called FATHER, and 
the latter what is called Son; and whereas divine good is his, consequently his proprium, it follows 
that by giving, when it is predicated of the LORD, denotes what is from his proprium; hence it is 
evident what is signified in the internal sense by what the LORD so often said that the Father gave 
to him, namely that he gave to himself, as in John, "FATHER, glorify your Son, that your Son also 
may glorify you, as you have given to him power over all flesh, that [as to] all which you have 
given to him, he may give to them eternal life." AC 3705.

That the LORD rules the universe, is manifest from these words, As you have given him power over 
all flesh, from which it is manifest that the LORD from divine good by divine truth rules all and 
singular things in the universe AC 3704.

That the kingdom in the heavens and in the earths was given to the LORD, is evident from the Word 
throughout, and from this particular passage, You have given him power over all flesh, that [as to] 
every thing which you have given him, he may give eternal life. AC 1607.

Power, when predicated of the LORD, denotes salvation, and the reason is, because all divine power 
regards salvation as its end; for man by the divine power is reformed, and next is introduced into 
heaven, and is there withheld from what is evil and false, and held in what is good and true, which 
cannot be effected but by the LORD alone. The LORD also has power over all things, because he is 
the only GOD, but the salvation of the human race is the principal of power, because for the sake of 
it the heavens and the worlds were created, and it is the reception of the divine proceeding. That 
power, when predicated of the LORD, principally regards salvation, is evident from this passage, As 
than have given him power over all flesh, that [as to] every thing that you have given him, he may 
give to them eternal life. An Exp. 293.

Verse 5. And now, O Father, glorify me with yourself, with the glory which I had with you before 
the world was. The LORD passed through two states when he lived in the world, namely a state of 
humiliation, and a state of glorification; his state of humiliation was when in the Humanity which 
he derived hereditarily from the mother; his state of glorification when in the Divine [principle] 
which he had from JEHOVAH, his FATHER: the former state, namely the Humanity from the mother, 
the LORD entirely put off, and put on a Divine Humanity, when he passed out of the world, and 
returned to the Divine [principle] itself, in which he was from eternity, John 17:5, together with the 
Humanity made Divine, from both which proceeds the holy [principle] which fills the universal 
heaven; thus from the Divine [principle] itself, and from the Divine Human by the holy proceeding,
he rules the universe. AC 2288.

JEHOVAH himself in the human form, or what is the same thing, in the form of an angel, was the 
LORD. His Divine Human [principle] appeared at that time as an angel, concerning which the LORD 
himself speaks in John, O Father, glorify me with yourself, with the glory which I had with you 
before the world was. AC 9315.

228

It is said with yourself; and with yourself denotes in yourself, wherefore also it is said, and God 
was the Word; and in another place, that the Lord is in the Father, and the Father in him, also that 
he and the Father are one. Doc. Lord, 1.

Verse 6. I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given me out of the world. He who
does not know that name denotes the quality and state of the thing treated of, may believe that 
where name is mentioned, it is only a name which is understood, and thus that where the LORD 
speaks of his name, it is only a name, when yet it denotes the quality of worship, namely the all of 
faith and charity by which he is to be worshiped. From these considerations it is evident that the 
LORD, as to the Divine Humanity, is the name of JEHOVAH, or all his quality; hence from the Divine 
Humanity is all divine worship, and it is what is to be worshiped, for thus the Divine [principle] 
itself is worshiped, to which no thought otherwise reaches, and if no thought, neither is there 
conjunction. AC 6674.

By the name of GOD is signified all in one complex by which GOD is worshiped, consequently all of
love and of faith. AC 2724.

Verse 8. And have known truly that I came forth from you. For the proper sense and meaning of the 
expression came forth, see extract at verse 28 of the foregoing chapter.

Verse 10. And all mine are your, and your are mine. This reciprocal union of the LORD with the 
FATHER, and of the FATHER with the LORD, though it cannot be compared with, yet it may be 
illustrated by the case with man; for the soul of man is in him, and inasmuch as it is in him, it is in 
the most singular things belonging to him, namely in the most singular things of his thought, and in 
the most singular of his action; whatever has not in it his soul, is not his; the soul of the LORD was 
life itself, or esse itself, which is JEHOVAH, for he was conceived of JEHOVAH, thus it was in the 
most singular things belonging to him; and since life itself, or esse itself, which is JEHOVAH, was 
his, as the soul is the property of man, so what appertains to JEHOVAH was his, which is what the 
LORD declares, when he says, that He is in the bosom of the Father, John 1:18, and that all things 
which the Father has are his, John 16:15; 17:10. AC 2025.

What can the above words all your are mine, and mine are your, mean, but that the divinity of the 
FATHER belongs to the humanity of the Son, and the humanity of the Son to the divinity of the 
FATHER, consequently that in CHRIST GOD is man, and man GOD, and thus that they are one, as soul 
and body are one? Every man may also say the like concerning his own soul and body, namely All 
mine are your, and your are mine; you are in me, and I in you; he that sees me sees you; we are one
both with regard to person, and with regard to life; the reason is, because the soul is in the whole, 
and in every part of man, for the life of the soul is the life of the body, and there is a mutual 
connection between them. Hence it is plain, that the divinity of the FATHER is the soul of the Son, 
and that the humanity of the Son is the body of the FATHER. We speak of the divinity of the FATHER, 
but we mean thereby the FATHER himself, since he and his divinity are the same thing, the divinity 
being one and individual. TCR 112.

And I am glorified in them. Glory in the Word, when predicated of the LORD, properly signifies the 
divine truth proceeding from him, by reason that that divine truth is the light of heaven, and from 
that light angels and men derive, not only all intelligence and wisdom, but likewise all happiness, 
and besides all magnificence in the heavens, which is ineffable; these therefore are the things which
are properly signified by the glory of GOD; and since this is glory, it follows that the glory of the 
LORD is to enlighten angels and men, and to gift them with intelligence and wisdom, and to bless 

229

them with things happy and delightful, and likewise to magnify all things in the heavens, and that 
this glory does not arise from the love of glory, but from love towards the human race, wherefore 
the LORD says in John, "the words which you have given me, I have given them, and I am glorified 
in them." AE 678.

Verse 16. They are not of the world, as I am not of the world. The reason why a comparison is made
of the men of the church with the LORD himself, is, because the life of the LORD in the world was an
example according to which the men of the church ought to live; hence it is that the LORD made a 
comparison with himself in the above words. AE 254.

Verse 17. Sanctify them in your truth. The conjunction of the LORD with man is by his divine truth, 
and this in man is of the LORD, thus is the LORD, and not at all of man, thus is not man. This man 
feels indeed as his own, nevertheless it is not his, for it is not united to him, but adjoined: it is 
otherwise with the divinity of the FATHER. This is not adjoined, but united to the humanity of the 
LORD, as the soul to its body. He who understands these things, may understand the following 
words of the LORD, "Sanctify them in your truth; your Word is truth; for their sakes I sanctify 
myself, that they also may be sanctified in the truth; that they all may be one, as you, FATHER, are in
me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us; I in them, and you in me," John 17:17, 19, 21, 23. 
AR 222.

Verse 19. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified in the truth. From 
these words it is manifest that the LORD alone is holy, and that that alone is holy which proceeds 
from the LORD, thus that which man receives from the LORD. To sanctify himself is to make himself
divine by virtue of his own proper power; hence they are said to be sanctified in the truth, who 
receive the divine truth proceeding from him in faith and life. AC 9229.

That the assumption of the humanity, and its unification with the divinity, which was in the LORD 
from nativity, and is called the FATHER, had for an end conjunction with men, is evident from these 
words, "For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified in the truth, that they may
be one as we are one, I in them, and you in me," John 17:19, 21, 22, 26; from which words it is 
manifest that conjunction is effected with the Divine Humanity of the LORD, and that it is 
reciprocal, and that thus, and no otherwise, there is conjunction with the Divinity which is called 
the FATHER. AR 883.

Verse 20. I pray not for these alone, &c. The case with the church is this, that it by turns undergoes 
new states; for as man is confirmed in the truth of faith and the good of charity, he is thus 
introduced into other states; the former state in this case serves as a plane for a following state, and 
so continually; thus man, who is the church, or who is regenerating, is perpetually led towards 
things interior, thus interiorly into heaven; the reason is, because the LORD from love, which is 
infinite because divine, is willing to draw man even to himself, and thus to bless him with all glory 
and happiness, as is manifest from the LORD'S words in John 17:20-26; that these words are the 
words of divine love towards all who receive them, is very evident. AC 6645.

When the LORD speaks of his union with the FATHER, he instantly and connectedly speaks of his 
conjunction with the human race, because this was the cause of union, as is manifest in John 17:21, 
22, 26; from which passages it is evident, that the LORD, in the union of himself with his FATHER, 
had respect to the conjunction of himself with the human race, and that this was at his heart, 
because it was his love, for all conjunction is effected by love, love being essential conjunction. AC
2034.

230

The reason why the LORD spoke of the conjunction of himself with men, as of the conjunction of 
himself with the FATHER, that is, of his humanity with the divinity which was in him, is, because the
LORD is not conjoined with the proprium of man, but with his own in man; the LORD removes the 
proprium of man, and gives him of his own, and dwells in it. AE 254. See also AC 9338.

Love to the LORD makes man one with the LORD, that is, a likeness; charity also, or love towards 
the neighbour, makes man one with the LORD, but an image; an image is not a likeness, but it is for 
a likeness. This one, resulting from love, is thus described by the LORD himself in John, "I pray that
they all may be one, as you, FATHER, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us. I have 
given them the glory which you have given me, that they may be one, as we are one, I in them, and 
you in me." This one is that mystical union, which some have thought of, and which is effected 
solely by love. AC 1013.

Verse 24. Father, I will that they also may be with me where I am, that they may see my glory, &c. 
That light is the LORD as to divine truth, and likewise the glory which is of light, is evident from the
words of the LORD himself, "They loved the glory of men more than the glory of God; I am come a 
light into the world, that every one who believes in me may not abide in darkness," John 12:43, 46; 
and again, "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with GOD, and GOD was the Word. 
This was the true light which illuminates every man that Comes into the world. And the Word was 
made fleshy and dwelt amongst us, and we saw his glory, the glory as of the Only begotten of the 
father" John 1:1, 9, 14: the Word is divine truth and likewise light; and glory is all that appears of 
the LORD in that light. These passages are adduced from the Word, because in them glory and light 
are named together, and they are adduced to the end that it may be known, that light is divine truth 
from the LORD, thus the LORD himself as to divine truth, and that glory is all that is of light, 
consequently all that is from the divine truth, which makes intelligence and wisdom with the 
angels, and with men who receive the LORD in faith and love. The like is signified by glory in these 
words, "I will that they may be with me where I am, that they may see my glory." AC 10574.

Verse 26. And I have made known to them your name, &c. That the name of JEHOVAH denotes to 
know what is his quality, namely that it is all the good of love and all the truth of faith, is very 
manifest from these words of the LORD, "O just FATHER, I have known you, and these also have 
known that you have sent me, for I have made known to them your name, and will make known, 
that the love with which you have loved me, may be in them." AC 2009.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 12. When I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name; those whom you have given me I 
have guarded. In the common version of the New Testament, no distinction is made in this passage between 
what is here rendered kept and guarded, but both terms are expressed by the verb kept, when yet in the 
original two distinct terms are used, namely eteran and ephulaxia, the former denoting the protection 
resulting from the reception of the divine good, and the latter the protection resulting from the reception of 
divine truth, and its conjunction with the divine good.

Verse 26. That the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them. The intelligent reader 
will not fail to discover in these words another instance of that heavenly marriage of the good and the true, 
which is so repeatedly pointed out in the Holy Word. For when the LORD prays, that the love, with which the 
Father has loved him, maybe in his disciples or church, it is manifest that he adverts to their reception of the 
divine good, or love, and when he prays further, that he himself may be in them, it is equally manifest that he
adverts to their reception of the divine truth in union with that good, which he himself was become at that 
time. From the above words too the intelligent reader will be enabled to collect another additional and strong
proof, if any be yet wanting, of the divinity of the LORD'S humanity, thus of its Oneness with the ETERNAL 

231

FATHER, for if this was not the case, why, or to what end, should the LORD pray that he might be in his 
disciples, or in the church, and in what possible manner could his prayer be granted?

232

John Chapter 18

Chapter 18

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. JESUS saying these things, went 

forth with his disciples beyond the 
torrent of cedars, where was a 
garden, into which he entered and 
his disciples.

THAT the LORD, as to his Humanity, having put off 
his first rational principle, enters into a state of his 
divine intelligence, from which he communicates 
with those who are principled in good and truth, vs 1.

2. But Judas also, who betrayed him, 
knew the place, because JESUS oft-
times assembled there with his 
disciples.

Which state is known also to those who are in the 
knowledge of truth, but in evils of life, and who 
therefore seek to destroy it by all kinds of false 
persuasions both internal and external, vs 2, 3.

3. Judas then, having received a band 
of soldiers and officers from the 
chief priests and Pharisees, comes 
thither with candles, and lamps, 
and weapons.

4.

JESUS therefore, knowing all things 
that were coming upon him, going 
forth, said to them, Whom seek 
you?

Yet they are checked for a time by inquisition in their
own minds concerning their designs, and by the 
consequent notice that the LORD'S HUMANITY was 
DIVINE, vs 4, 5, 6.

5. They answered him, JESUS of 

Nazareth. JESUS says to them, I am. 
And Judas also, who betrayed him, 
stood with them.

6. When therefore he said to them, I 

am, they went away backward, and 
fell to the ground.

7. Again, therefore he asked them, 
Whom seek you? But they said, 
JESUS of Nazareth.

8.

JESUS answered, I told you that I 
am; if then you seek me, let these 
go away.

Which inquisition is again repeated together with the
same notice, vs 7, and former part of 8.

9. That the Word which he said might 
be fulfilled, of them which you 
gave me, have I lost none.

On which occasion intercession is made from the 
divine love in favour of those who are principled in 
good and truth, latter part of 8th v. and 5:9.

233

10. Then Simon Peter, having a sword, 
drew it, and smote the servant of 
the high priest, and cut off his right 
ear; but the servant's name was 
Malchus.

Yet they, who are principled in the faith of the 
church, seek protection in truth, rejecting obedience, 
until they are instructed, that the LORD as to his 
Humanity, was to suffer temptations, and thus to 
enter into his glory, vs 10, 11.

11. Then said JESUS to Peter, Put up 

your sword into the sheath; the cup 
which the FATHER has given me, 
shall I not drink it?

12. Then the band, and the captain, and
the officers of the Jews took JESUS, 
and bound him.

Accordingly the LORD suffers his Humanity to be 
delivered up and treated by the perverted church, as 
they had before treated his Word, vs 12, 13, 14.

13. And led him away to Annas first; 

for he was father-in-law of 
Caiaphas, who was the high priest 
that same year.

14. But it was Caiaphas which gave 
counsel to the Jews, that it was 
expedient that one man should die 
for the people.

15. But Simon Peter followed JESUS, 
and [so did] another disciple; but 
that disciple was known to the high
priest, and went in with JESUS into 
the palace of the high priest.

16. But Peter stood at the gate without; 
then went out the other disciple, 
who was known to the high priest, 
and spoke to her who kept the door,
and brought in Peter.

17. Then says the damsel that kept the 
door to Peter, Art not you also of 
this man's disciples? He says, I am 
not.

18. But the servants and the officers 

stood, having made a fire of coals, 
because it was cold, and they 
warmed themselves; but Peter was 
standing with them, and warming 
himself,

But they, who are principled in faith alone, cannot 
enter into this process, and the re-fore deny the 
divinity of the LORD'S Humanity, being influenced 
only by external loves, vs 15, 16, 17, 18.

234

That inquisition is made in the perverted church 
respecting the LORD'S humanity, and answer is given,
that nothing can be known concerning it, but through
obedience to its precepts, vs 19, 20, 21.

This answer, however, only excites greater outrage 
against that humanity, when yet it ought to have 
appeased all violence, vs 22, 23, 24.

That in the end of the church there will remain no 
longer any faith, but a plenary denial of the LORD, vs 
25, 26, 27.

19. The high priest then asked JESUS 
concerning his disciples, and 
concerning his doctrine.

20. JESUS answered him, I spoke 

openly to the world; I ever taught 
in the synagogue and in the temple,
whither the Jews always resort, and
in secret have I spoken nothing.

21. Why ask you me? Ask them that 

heard, what I have spoken to them; 
behold, they know what I have 
said.

22. But when he had said these things, 
one of the officers standing near 
gave JESUS a blow with a rod, 
saying, Answerest you the high 
priest so?

23. JESUS answered him, If I have 

spoken evil, bear witness of the 
evil, but if well, why smite you 
me?

24. Then Annas sent him bound to 
Caiaphas, the high priest.

25. But Simon Peter was standing and 
warming himself: Then they said to
him, are not them also [one] of his 
disciples? He denied, and said, I 
am not.

26. One of the servants of the high 
priest, being a kinsman of him 
whose ear Peter cut off, says, Did 
not I see you in the garden with 
him?

27. Then Peter denied again, and 
immediately the cock crew.

235

Therefore in the end of the church all truth divine is 
separated from those who are of the church, 
notwithstanding their external sanctity, and imparted 
to those who are in the falses of ignorance, and who 
yet are inquisitive about truth, and especially about 
its rejection by those who are of the church, in 
consequence of separating it from its good, vs 28, 29,
30.

28. Then they led JESUS from Caiaphas
to the governor's hall; but it was 
morning: and they themselves 
entered not into the governor's hall,
lest they should be defiled, but that 
they might eat the passover.

29. Then Pilate went out to them, and 
said, What accusation bring you 
against this man?

30. They answered and said to him, If 
he were not a malefactor, we would
not have delivered him up to you.

31. Then Pilate says to them, Take you 
him, and judge him according to 
your law. The Jews therefore said 
to him, It is not lawful for us to put 
any one to death.

But they who are in the falses of ignorance, cannot 
account for this separation, until they are instructed, 
that it is forbidden in the Word, and that nevertheless
it had taken place amongst those of the perverted 
church who are in possession of the Word, vs 31, 32.

32. That the saying of JESUS might be 
fulfilled, which he said, signifying 
by what death he was about to die. 

33. Then Pilate entered again into the 
governor's hall, and called JESUS, 
and said to him, Art you the King 
of the Jews?

34. JESUS answered him, Sayest you 

this thing of yourself, or did others 
tell you of me?

35. Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Yours
own nation and the chief priests 
have delivered you to me; what 
have you done?

36. JESUS answered, My kingdom is 
not of this world; if my kingdom 
was of this world, then would my 
servants strive that I should not be 
delivered to the Jews; but now is 
my kingdom not from here.

They are therefore inquisitive about truth divine, but 
are admonished to explore in themselves the motive 
which leads them to such inquisition, so as to 
discover whether it be from the love of truth, or from
other motives, vs 33, 34.

They are further inquisitive about the work of 
redemption, and are instructed that it is a divine 
work, for the purpose of imparting to man, not 
natural and temporal dominion, but that which is 
spiritual and eternal, vs 35, 36. 

236

37. Pilate therefore says to him, Art 

you a king then? JESUS answered, 
You say that I am a king: For this 
was I born, and for this I came into 
the world, that I might bear witness
to the truth. Every one that is of the
truth hears my voice.

38. Pilate says to him, What is truth? 

And saying this, he again went out 
to the Jews, and says to them, I find
no fault in him.

They are again inquisitive about the divinity of the 
LORD'S humanity, and are further instructed, that they
have internal evidence in themselves of its divinity, 
because the sole reason why the humanity was 
conceived, and came into the world, was, that it 
might be made divine truth, and thus divine good, 
which doctrine is received by all who are principled 
in good, vs 37.

Lastly, they are inquisitive about divine truth, and by
such inquisition are led to discover, and to make 
confession, that the LORD had integrity, and that thus 
his humanity was DIVINE GOOD, and therefore no 
violence ought to be done to it, vs 38, 39.

39. But you have a custom, that I 

should release to you one at the 
passover; will you then that I 
release to you the King of the 
Jews?

40. Then they all again cried out, 
saying, Not this [man] but 
Barabbas; but Barabbas was a 
robber.

Exposition.

Nevertheless, the perverted church reject the divine 
truth, and cleave to the infernal false, vs 40.

Verse 11. The cup which my Father has given me, shall I not drink it? Whereas by cup, as by wine, 
are signified in the opposite sense the falses productive of evils, also falses derived from evils, 
hence likewise by cup is signified temptation, inasmuch as this is effected when the false fights 
against truth, and thence evil against good; the cup is spoken of instead of temptation, and 
concerning it, in Luke, "JESUS prayed, saying, If you will that this cup may pass from me, 
nevertheless not my will, but your be done," Luke 22:42; in like manner the cup here denotes 
temptation, where it is written, "JESUS said to Peter, Put up your sword into its sheath, the cup 
which my Father has given me, shall I not drink it." AC 5120.

Verse 27. Then Peter denied again, and immediately the cock crew. For the explication of these 
words, see Extracts above, at verse 38 of chapter xiii.

Verse 37. Pilate therefore says to him, Art you a king then? Jesus answered, You say that I am a 
king: For this was I born, and for this I came into the world, that I might bear witness to the truth. 
From these words it is evident that the Messiah, the Anointed, and a King, is the same as divine 
truth. AC 3009. See also AE 27

That by King in the Word is meant the LORD as to divine truth, is evident from the above words of 
the LORD himself to Pilate; from Pilate's question, What is truth? it is evident that he understood 
that the LORD called truth a king, but whereas he was a Gentile, and knew nothing of the Word, he 
could not be instructed that divine truth was from the LORD, and that he was divine truth, therefore 
after the question, he immediately went out to the Jews, saying, I find no fault in him; and 

237

afterwards set over the cross, "This is JESUS, the King of the Jews; and when the chief priests said 
to him, Write not the King of the Jews, but that he said, I am the King of the Jews, Pilate replied, 
What I have written I have written." AE 31.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 1. Jesus saying these things, went forth with his disciples beyond the torrent of cedars. In the common 
version of the Greek Testament, what is here rendered the torrent of cedars, is called the brook Kedron, but 
in the original Greek the words are literally the torrent of cedars, being doubtless so expressed on account of
the internal sense.

Verse 21. Ash them that heard what I have spoken to them; behold, they know what I have said. In the 
common version of the New Testament, no distinction is made between speaking and saying in this passage, 
both terms being rendered by the verb say; whereas in the original Greek, the terms are distinguished, 
because to speak, in the internal sense, has more respect to truth, whilst to say has more respect to good. See 
note at verse 49 of chapter xii.

238

John Chapter 19

Chapter 19

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. THEN Pilate therefore took JESUS 

and scourged [him.]

THAT they, who are in the falses of ignorance, treat 
the Word with contumely, being misled by those who
are in knowledges, vs 1.

2. And the soldiers, platting a crown 
of thorns, put [it] on his head, and 
they put on him a purple robe,

3. And said, Hail, King of the Jews; 
and they gave him blows with a 
rod.

4. Then Pilate went forth again, and 
says to them, Behold, I bring him 
forth to you, that you may know 
that I find in him no fault.

5. Then came JESUS forth bearing the 
crown of thorns, and the purple 
robe; and says to them, Behold the 
Man!

And even they, who fought in favour of truths, 
falsified and adulterated those truths, vs 2, 3.

Still they, who are in the falses of ignorance, are 
disposed to acknowledge the LORD'S integrity, who at
that time represented the divine Word as to its quality
in the Jewish church, where it was suffocated by the 
falses of cravings, vs 4, 5.

6. When therefore the chief priests 
and officers saw him, they cried 
out, saying, Crucify, crucify. Pilate 
says to them, Take you him and 
crucify, for I find no fault in him.

Therefore, notwithstanding his rejection by the 
perverted church, they still maintain his innocence, 
and are led into further enquiry concerning his 
divinity, which is denied in the perverted church, vs 
6, 7, 8, 9.

7. The Jews answered him, We have a
law, and according to our law he 
ought to die, because he made 
himself the Son of GOD.

8. When Pilate therefore heard that 
saying, he was the more afraid.

9. And entered again into the 

governor's hall, and says to JESUS, 
Whence are you? But JESUS gave 
him no answer.

239

10. Then says Pilate to him, Speak you 
not to me? Know you not that I 
have power to crucify you, and 
have power to release you?

But on this subject they receive no instruction, until 
they are first instructed concerning the laws of divine
permission and providence, to which all human 
power is subjected, vs 10, 11.

11. JESUS answered, You would have 

no power against me, unless it were
given you from above; therefore he
that delivered me to you has the 
greater sin.

12. From this Pilate sought to release 

him: but the Jews cried out, saying,
If you release this [man] you are 
not Caesar's friend; every one who 
makes himself a king, speaks 
against Caesar.

13. Pilate then hearing this saying, 

brought JESUS forth, and sat down 
in the tribunal, in a place called the 
pavement, but in Hebrew, 
Gabbatha.

14. But it was the preparation of the 

passover, and about the sixth hour; 
and he says to the Jews, Behold 
your King.

15. But they cried out, Away with, 

away with, crucify him, Pilate says 
to them, Shall I crucify your King? 
The chief priests answered, We 
have no king but Caesar.

16. Then delivered he him therefore to 
them to be crucified; and they took 
JESUS and led [him] away.

17. And he bearing the cross, went 

forth into a place called [the place] 
of a skull, which is called in the 
Hebrew, Golgotha.

18. Where they crucified him, and two 
others with him, on this side and on
that side, but JESUS in the midst.

By which instruction they are the more confirmed in 
favour of the LORD'S integrity, and divinity, and 
notwithstanding what is urged by the perverted 
church, that temporal dominion is more to be 
consulted than the dominion of the eternal truth, they
continue steadfast in asserting the dominion of truth, 
thus of the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, vs 12, 13, 14.

Which spiritual dominion is entirely rejected by the 
perverted church, so that they acknowledge no 
dominion but what is temporal, or of the world, vs 
15.

And thus they also, who are in the falses of 
ignorance, are led to reject the LORD, who, as to his 
humanity, is totally rejected by the perverted church, 
together with faith and charity, v, 16, 17, 18.

240

19. But Pilate wrote a title, and put it 
on the cross; but the writing was, 
JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF 
THE JEWS.

Still they insist that the LORD, in his humanity, is 
divine truth, or the Word, thus contumeliously 
treated, notwithstanding what is urged to the contrary
by the perverted church, vs 19, 20, 21, 22.

20. This title then read many of the 
Jews, for the place where JESUS 
was crucified was near to the city, 
and it was written in Hebrew, in 
Greek, in Latin.

21. Then said the chief priests of the 

Jews to Pilate, Write not, the King 
of the Jews; but that he said, I am 
the King of the Jews.

22. Pilate answered, what I have 

written I have written.

23. Then the soldiers, when they had 

crucified JESUS, took his garments, 
and made four parts, to every 
soldier a part, and the coat; but the 
coat was without seam worked 
from the top throughout.

24. They said therefore one to another, 
Let us not rend it, but cast lots for 
it, whose it shall be; that the 
Scripture might be fulfilled, which 
says, They parted my garments 
among them, and for my clothing 
they did cast lots: these things 
therefore the soldiers did.

25. But there stood by the cross of 

JESUS his mother, and his mother's 
sister, Mary the [wife of] Cleophas,
and Mary Magdalene.

26. JESUS then seeing the mother, and 
the disciple standing by whom he 
loved, says to his mother, Woman, 
behold your Son!

27. Then says he to the disciple, 

Behold your mother! And from that
hour the disciple took her to his 
own.

Who, whilst they ought to fight in favour of truth, 
dissipate and destroy every truth of the Word, except 
the internal spiritual truth, which they are not able to 
destroy, and this according to prediction, vs 23, 24.

The LORD teaches that charity in effect, or works of 
charity, constitute the church, vs 25, 26, 27.

241

And from his ardent love of what is good and true in 
the church, accepts the falses of ignorance amongst 
the Gentiles, when purified, as truths, vs 28, 29, 30.

That the perverted church are eager to destroy 
scientific truth, and do destroy the doctrinals of faith 
and charity, but not those which are in connection 
with divine truth, vs 31, 32, 33.

They destroy also all the spiritual and natural truth of
the Word, agreeably to the testimony of those who 
are principled in the good of love, and who therefore 
acknowledge the divine truth which teaches that 
scientific truth shall be kept entire, and that 
nevertheless the perverted church destroyed both the 
spiritual and natural truth of the Word, vs 34, 35, 38, 
37.

28. After this JESUS knowing that all 

things were now accomplished, that
the Scripture might be fulfilled, 
says, I thirst.

29. Then there was set a vessel full of 
vinegar, but they, filling a sponge 
with vinegar, and putting it upon 
hyssop, applied it to his mouth.

30. When JESUS therefore received the 
vinegar, he said, It is finished, and 
bowing the head, he delivered up 
the Spirit.

31. The Jews therefore, lest the body 
should remain on the cross on the 
sabbath, since it was the 
preparation, (for that day of the 
sabbath was a great day) besought 
Pilate that their legs might be 
broken, and they might be taken 
away.

32. Then came the soldiers, and break 
the legs of the first, and of the other
that was crucified with him.

33. But coming to JESUS, when they 

saw him already dead, they break 
not his legs.

34. But one of the soldiers with a spear
pierced his side, and immediately 
there came out blood and water.

35. And he that saw bare witness, and 
his witness is true, and he knows 
that he says true, that you might 
believe.

36. For these things came to pass, that 
the Scripture might be fulfilled, a 
bone of him shall not be bruised.

37. And again another Scripture says, 
They shall look on him whom they 
pierced.

242

38. But after these things Joseph of 
Arimathea (being a disciple of 
JESUS, but secretly for fear of the 
Jews) besought Pilate that he might
take away the body of JESUS, and 
Pilate gave leave; he came 
therefore and took the body of 
JESUS.

39. But there came also Nicodemus, 
which came to JESUS by night 
privately, bringing a mixture of 
myrrh and aloes, a hundred pounds.

40. Then took they the body of JESUS, 
and wound it in linen clothes with 
the spices as is the custom with the 
Jews to bury.

41. But in the place where he was 

crucified there was a garden, and in
the garden a new sepulchre, in 
which no one as yet was laid.

42. There therefore, by reason of the 

preparation of the Jews because the
sepulchre was near, they deposited 
Jesus.

Nevertheless they, who are principled in the truth of 
the church, acknowledge the LORD'S humanity, and 
his divine life in the sensual principle, and thus his 
glorification even to the ultimates of the body, vs 38, 
39, 40.

For the LORD'S final temptation-combats were under 
the influence of his divine wisdom and intelligence, 
and thus aided his ascent to the divine good, different
from all other men, and therefore he submitted to the
process of his glorification, as it had been before 
representatively figured in the Word, vs 41, 42.

Exposition.

Previously to giving particular extracts concerning the subjects treated of in this chapter, it is 
thought proper to give the following extract from the Treatise concerning the LORD, in which a 
general idea is delivered of the spiritual meaning of all the LORD'S sufferings. The extract is as 
follows:—

That the LORD himself, as being the grand prophet, represented the state of the church as to the 
Word, is evident from the parts of his passion, as that he was betrayed by Judas; that he was seized 
and condemned by the chief priests and elders; that they buffeted him; that they smote his head 
with a reed; that they set on it a crown of thorns; that they divided his garments and cast lots upon 
his coat; that they crucified him; that they gave him vinegar to drink; that they pierced his side; 
that he was buried and rose again on the third day. His being betrayed by Judas signified by the 
Jewish nation, who at that time were in possession of the Word, for Judas represented that nation; 
his being seized and condemned by the chief priests and elders signifies that he was so treated by 
all that church; their beating him with rods, spitting in his face, buffeting him, and smiting his head 
with a reed, signified that they had done the like with the Word as to its divine truths, all which treat
of the LORD; their setting a crown of thorns on his head signified that they falsified and adulterated 
those truths; their dividing his garments and casting lots upon his coat signified that they dispersed 
all the truths of the Word, but not its spiritual sense, which sense was signified by the LORD'S' coat; 

243

their crucifying him signified that they destroyed and profaned the whole Word; their giving him 
vinegar to drink signified that they gave him things merely falsified and false, wherefore he did not 
drink it, and then said, It is consummated; their piercing his side signified that they absolutely 
extinguished every truth of the Word, and all its good; his burial signified the rejection of the 
humanity remaining from the mother; his resurrection on the third day signified glorification. 
Wherefore after that he was scourged and led out, bearing the crown of thorns, and the purple 
garment put on him by the soldiers, he said, Behold the man, John 19:1, 5; this was said, because by
man is signified the church, for by the Son of Man is signified the truth of the church, thus the 
Word. From these considerations it is now evident, that by bearing iniquities is meant to represent 
and effigy in himself sins against the divine truth of the Word. That the LORD sustained and suffered
such things as the Son of Man, and not as the Son of GOD, will be seen in what follows; for the Son 
of Man signifies the LORD as to the Word. Doc. Lord. 16.

Verse 2. And the soldiers platting a crown of thorns, put it on his head. Thorns signify the falses of 
concupiscencies, and the crown of thorns platted and set on the Lord's head, when he was crucified,
and saluted as the king of the Jews, and when he said Behold the man, represented what was the 
quality of the divine Word at that time in the Jewish church, namely that it was suffocated by the 
falses of cravings; the king of the Jews, as he was then saluted by them, signified divine truth; the 
LORD saying on the occasion, behold the man, signified divine truth, what its quality is at this day 
in the church; for the divine truth proceeding from the LORD in heaven is a man, hence heaven is 
the grand man, and this from influx and correspondence; hence also the celestial church of the 
LORD was called man; this church was what the Jews represented; hence it is evident what was 
signified by the crown of thorns, also by the salutation, king of the Jews, what also by behold the 
man;, and likewise what by the inscription on the cross, Jesus of Nazareth the king of the Jews, 
namely that divine truth or the Word was in such aspect, and so treated by the Jews, with whom the 
church was. AC 9144.

By the Jews setting a crown of thorns on the Lord's head, and smiting his head, was signified, that 
they treated with such contumely divine truth itself and divine wisdom; for the Word, which is 
divine truth itself, and which contains divine wisdom, they falsified and adulterated by traditions, 
and by applications to themselves, thus desiring a king who might exalt them above all others in the
universe; and whereas the kingdom of the LORD was not terrestrial but celestial, therefore they 
perverted all things of the Word, which were said of him, and ridiculed the things which were 
predicted of him; this was what was represented by their setting a crown of thorns on his head, and 
by smiting his head. AE 577.

Verses 23, 24. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments, and made four 
parts, to every soldier a part, and the coat, &c. He who reads these words, supposes that they 
involve no more of arcanum, than that the garments were divided among the soldiers, and that a lot 
was cast on the coat, when yet singular things were representative and significative of things divine,
namely that the garments were divided into four parts, also that the coat was not divided, but the lot
was cast upon it, especially that the coat was without seam and worked from above throughout; for 
by the coat was signified the divine truth of the LORD, which, as being single [unicum] and derived 
from good, was represented by the coat without seam and worked from above throughout: it was 
likewise represented, that the LORD did not suffer divine truth to be separated into parts, as was 
done with inferior truths of the church by the Jews. AC 4677.

Who cannot see, if he thinks from reason in any degree enlightened, that the above words signified 
things divine, and that otherwise they would not have been noticed by David, where it is written, 

244

They divided my garments amongst them, and upon my coat they cast lots, Psalm 22:19; but what 
the words signify cannot be known without the internal sense, thus not without knowledge thence 
derived, concerning what is signified by garments, what by casting lots upon them or dividing 
them, what by a coat, and its being without seam or woven throughout, and what by soldiers; from 
the internal sense it is evident that by garments are signified truths, and that by the garments of the 
LORD divine truths; by casting lots and dividing, to pull to pieces and to dissipate them; by a coat 
divine truth spiritual from divine celestial truth, the like as was signified by the coat of Aaron, since
Aaron represented the LORD, so likewise by its being without seam and woven from above 
throughout; the coat being not divided, signified that divine truth spiritual, proximately proceeding 
from divine truth celestial, could not be dissipated, because that truth is the internal truth of the 
Word, such as the angels have in heaven; its being said that soldiers did this, signifies that it was 
done by those who fought in favour of truths, thus by the Jews themselves, who were in possession 
of the Word, who nevertheless were of such a quality that they dissipated it; for they had the Word, 
and still were not willing to be thence instructed, that the LORD was the Messiah and the Son of 
GOD who was to come, nor in any other internal thing of the Word, but only in what is external, 
which also they made to favour their loves, which were the loves of self and of the world, thus to 
favour the lusts thence issuing. These things are signified by the division of the Lord's garments; for
whatever the Jews did to the LORD represented the state of divine truth and good at that time 
amongst them, thus that they treated truths divine in like manner as himself; for the LORD, when he 
was in the world, was divine truth itself. AC 9942.

Verses 25, 26, 27. But there stood by the cross of Jesus, his mother, and Jesus seeing his mother 
and the disciple standing whom he loved, he says to his mother, Woman, behold your son, and to 
the disciple, behold your mother, &c. By these words is understood, that the LORD did not 
acknowledge Mary for his mother, but the church, wherefore he calls her woman, and the mother of
the disciple; the reason why he called her the mother of this disciple, or of John, was, because he 
represented the church as to the good things of charity, which things are the church in effect itself, 
therefore it is said that he took her to his own. CL 119.

From the above words it is evident that the LORD spoke to his mother, according to what she 
thought when she saw him on the cross, nevertheless he does not call her mother, but woman, and 
that he transfers the name of mother to those who are signified by the disciple, wherefore he said to 
the disciple, behold your mother. AC 2649.

That the good of charity makes the church, is also signified by the above words of the LORD to 
John, "JESUS saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing near, and he said to his 
mother, Woman, behold your son; and he said to that disciple, behold your mother; and from that 
hour that disciple took her to himself;" for by John is meant the good of charity, and by woman and 
mother the church; and by all the above words, that the church will be where the good of charity is. 
Heavenly Doctrine, 122. See also AE 821.

Verses 28, 29, 30. After this Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the 
8cripture might be fulfilled, says I thirst. Then there was set a vessel full of vinegar, &c. All and 
singular the things, which are related in the evangelists concerning the LORD'S passion, in the 
spiritual sense signify a state of the church at that time in respect to the LORD and to the Word; for 
the LORD was the Word because divine truth, and the Jews, as they treated the Word, or divine truth,
so they treated the LORD, on which subject see above, AE 64, 195; their giving the Lord vinegar 
mixed with gall, which is also called wine mingled with myrrh, signified what the quality of divine 
truth from the Word was with the Jewish nation, namely that it was mixed with the false of evil, and

245

thus altogether falsified and adulterated, wherefore he was not willing to drink it; but their giving 
him afterwards vinegar in a sponge, and encompassing it with hyssop, signified the false principle, 
such as it was amongst the well-disposed Gentiles, which was grounded in ignorance of truth, 
containing in it what is good and useful, and since this false principle is accepted of the LORD, 
therefore he drank it; by the hyssop, which they placed around it is signified its purification; the 
LORD saying, I thirst, signifies divine spiritual thirst, which is of divine good and truth in the 
church, by which is effected the salvation of the human race. AE 519.

Verse 34. But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and immediately there came out 
blood and water. The plenary rejection of divine truth which is from the LORD, and which was the 
LORD, is understood by these words in Matthew, "Pilate washed his hands before the people, 
saying, I am innocent of. the blood of this just one, you will see; and all the people replied, His 
blood be on us and on our children," Matt 27:24, 25; on which account this is thus described in 
John, "One of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and immediately there came out blood and 
water;" the reason why water came forth, is, because by water is signified external truth divine, 
such as is the Word in the letter. AC 9127.

By soldier and soldiers are there understood those who were of the church, and who militated or 
fought for the LORD, those of the Jewish church in particular are there understood, and in general all
of the church who are in falses derived from evil: inasmuch as these were signified by the soldiers, 
therefore they divided the garments of the LORD, and cast lots upon his clothing, by which is 
understood, that the Jewish church dispersed divine truths, which are in the sense of the letter of the
Word, but that they could not do the same to the interior truths, or the truths which are in the 
internal sense; for garments signify truths in the ultimates, see AC 2576, 5248; to divide signifies to
dissipate and disperse, AC 4424, 6360; and the clothing interior truths, AC 9049, 9212. AE 38.

Blood and water in the above passage denote divine truth, spiritual and natural, thus the Word in 
the spiritual and natural sense, and to pierce the Lord's side is to destroy both by falses, as was also 
done by the Jews; for all things of the LORD'S passion represented the state of the Jewish church as 
to the Word, on which subject see the Doctrine of the New Jerusalem concerning the LORD 15 to 
17. The reason why by piercing him is signified to destroy the Word by falses, is, because this is 
said of JESUS CHRIST, who is presently called the Son of Man, and by the Son of Man is meant the 
LORD as to the Word, wherefore to pierce the Son of Man is to pierce the Word. AR 26.

The above things were done that they might signify the conjunction of the LORD with the human 
race by the divine truth proceeding from the divine good of his love; for breast signifies divine 
love; blood and water signify the proceeding divine truth, blood the divine truth which is for the 
spiritual man, and water the divine truth which is for the natural man; for all things, which are 
related in the Word concerning the LORD'S passion, are also significative, see AE 83, 195; and 
whereas the above things signify his love, and the salvation of man by the divine truth proceeding 
from him, therefore also the evangelist says, "He that saw bears witness, and his witness is true, and
he knows that he says what is true, that you may believe." AE 329.

Verse 35. And he that saw bare witness, &c. Inasmuch as by heart is signified the good of love, and 
this alone is what acknowledges divine truth, and the Divine [principle] of the LORD in his human, 
and this good is signified by John, therefore also John says that he bears witness to the Word of 
GOD and the testimony of JESUS CHRIST," Rev 1:2; and in another place, "he that saw bare witness, 
and his witness is true, and he knows that he says what is true, that you might believe." AE 10.

246

Verse 39. Bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes. By myrrh is signified truth most external, which 
is sensual truth, and its perception, on which account the bodies of the dead were formerly anointed
with myrrh and aloes, by which anointing was signified the preservation of all goods and truths 
with man, and likewise resurrection; wherefore also such a substance was applied as signified the 
ultimate principle of life with man, which ultimate principle is called sensual life: that such things 
were used in anointing the body of the LORD, and that together with them it was wrapped up in 
linen, and that this custom prevailed amongst the Jews, see John 19:39, 40; but it is to be noted, that
those things, which were spoken of the LORD himself in the world, are to be understood in a super-
eminent sense, wherefore the things mentioned in the above passage signify his divine life in the 
sensual principle, which is the life proper to the body, and likewise the resurrection of the body. AC
10252.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 5. Then came Jesus forth, bearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe, and says to them, Behold 
the Man! In the common version of the New Testament, these words are supposed to be spoken by Pilate, 
whose name is therefore inserted in italics, as if he was the speaker on the occasion; but in the original Greek
no mention is made of Pilate, and the words are manifestly the words of JESUS. See Extract on this verse.

Verse 12. From this Pilate sought to release him. What is here rendered from this, is rendered from now on in
the common version of the New Testament, but the expression in the original Greek is ek touton, which is 
literally from this, relating probably, not to any period of time, but to what the blessed JESUS had said in the 
preceding verse.

Verse 23. But the coat was without seam, worked from the top throughout. What is here rendered from the 
top, is expressed in the original Greek by the words ek ton enothen which is literally of things from above.

247

John Chapter 20

Chapter 20

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. BUT on one of the sabbaths Mary 
Magdalene comes early, whilst it 
was yet dark to the sepulchre, and 
sees the stone taken away from the 
sepulchre.

2. Then she runs, and comes to Simon
Peter, and to the other disciple 
whom JESUS loved, and says to 
them, They have taken away the 
LORD out of the sepulchre and we 
know not where they have laid him.

3. Then went forth Peter and the other
disciple, and they came to the 
sepulchre.

4. But they both ran together, and the 
other disciple did outrun Peter, and 
came first to the sepulchre.

5. And stooping down, he saw the 

linen clothes lying, yet went he not 
in.

6. Then comes Simon Peter following
him, and went into the sepulchre, 
and sees the linen clothes lying;

7. And the napkin which was about 
his head, not lying with the linen 
clothes, but apart folded into one 
place.

8. Then therefore went in also the 

other disciple, who came first to the
sepulchre, and he saw and believed.

9. For as yet they knew not the 

Scripture, that he must rise again 
from the dead.

10. Then the disciples went away again

to themselves.

THAT at the commencement of a new church, they 
who are in the affection of good, but not yet in the 
light of truth, are earnest about regeneration through 
the removal of false and evil principles, and 
therefore consult with those, who are in faith and 
love, about the LORD'S glorification, vs 1, 2.

Thus exciting attention, so that the principle of love 
is exalted above that of faith, vs 3, 4.

Nevertheless the principle of love cannot enter into 
the regeneration without the principle of faith, since 
it is the office of this latter principle to discern and 
discriminate truths, by distinguishing between those 
which are exterior and those which are interior, in 
which case love and faith are united and become one,
vs 5, 6, 7, 8.

And are admitted to the knowledge of the 
glorification of the LORD'S humanity, as it is taught in
the Word, with which knowledge they are fully 
satisfied, vs 9, 10.

248

11. But Mary stood at the sepulchre 

weeping without; as then she wept, 
she stooped to the sepulchre.

12. And sees two angels in white, 

sitting, the one at the head, and the 
other at the feet, where the body of 
JESUS had lain.

But they who are in the affection of good, yet not in 
the light of truth, remain in an external state, until 
through humiliation it is given them to discover 
divine truth, both in its first and in its ultimate 
principles, proceeding from the LORD, vs 11, 12.

13. And they say to her, Woman, why 
weep you? She says to them, 
Because they have taken away my 
LORD, and I know not where they 
have laid him.

By which discovery they are led to a state of 
conversion, and thus to a view of the LORD, first as 
the giver of spiritual intelligence, and next as the 
source of all divine truth, and lastly as one with the 
divine good, vs 13, 14, 15, 16, 17.

14. And saying these things, she turned
behind, and saw JESUS standing, 
and she knew not that it was JESUS.

15. JESUS says to her, Woman, why 

weep you? Whom seek you? She, 
supposing that it was the gardener, 
says to him, Lord, if you have 
carried him hence, tell me where 
you have laid him, and I will take 
him away.

16. JESUS says to her, Mary. She 

turning, says to him, Rabboni, 
which is to say, Master.

17. JESUS says to her, Touch me not, 
for I have not yet ascended to my 
FATHER; but go to my brethren, and 
say to them, I ascend to my FATHER
and your FATHER, and my GOD and 
your GOD.

249

Which view they impart to those who are principled 
in truth, so that to them also the LORD is made 
manifest as the divine source of all good and truth, 
and as the giver of those heavenly principles to man, 
vs 18, 19, 20.

And they are required to communicate to others what
has been communicated to them, so that through the 
divine truth and divine good, proceeding from the 
LORD, all may be brought to the knowledge of their 
own natural evils, and to deliverance from their 
power, vs 21, 22, 23.

18. Mary Magdalene comes, telling the
disciples that she had seen the 
LORD, and he had said these things 
to her.

19. Then it being evening on the same 
day, on one of the sabbaths, and the
doors being shut where the 
disciples were assembled, for fear 
of the Jews, came JESUS, and stood 
in the midst, and says to them, 
Peace be to you.

20. And saying this, he showed them 
his hands and his side; then the 
disciples rejoiced, seeing the LORD.

21. Then JESUS said to them again, 

Peace be to you, as the FATHER has 
sent me, even so send I you.

22. And saying this, he breathed on 

[them] and says to them, Receive 
you the Holy Spirit.

23. Whosesoever sins you remit, they 
are remitted to them; whosesoever 
you withhold, they are withholden.

24. But Thomas, one of the twelve, 

called Didymus, was not with them
when JESUS came.

That they who are in sensual truth, are with difficulty
persuaded to believe in the LORD'S glorification, vs 
24, 25.

25. The other disciples therefore said to
him, We have seen the LORD; but 
he said to them, Unless I see in his 
hands the print of the nails, and put 
my finger into the print of the nails,
and put my hand into his side, I 
will not believe.

250

26. And after eight days again his 

disciples were within, and Thomas 
with them; JESUS came, the doors 
being shut, and stood in the midst, 
and said, Peace be to you.

Therefore the LORD in his mercy accommodates 
himself to their apprehension by the glorification of 
his body even to its ultimates, so that they confess 
him to be the only source of all divine good and 
divine truth, vs 26, 27. 28.

27. Then says he to Thomas, Reach 
here your finger, and behold my 
hands, and reach your hand, and 
put it into my side; and be not 
faithless, but believing.

28. And Thomas answered and said to 

him, My LORD and my GOD.

29. JESUS says to him, Because you 

have seen me, Thomas, you have 
believed; blessed are they who 
have not seen, and have believed.

30. And many other signs truly did 
JESUS in the presence of his 
disciples, which are not written in 
this book.

31. But these are written, that you may 
believe that JESUS is the CHRIST the 
Son of GOD, and that believing, you
might have life in his name.

Exposition.

Yet they are instructed that faith insinuated by an 
internal way is more blessed than that which is 
insinuated by an external way, vs 29.

For all that was said and done by the LORD, during 
his abode here on earth, was for this purpose, that he 
may be acknowledged by faith and love as the 
SUPREME GOD of heaven and earth, and that through 
that acknowledgement mankind may attain 
conjunction of life with him, vs 30, 31.

Verse 1. But on one of the sabbaths, Mary Magdalene comes early, whilst it was yet dark, to the 
sepulchre. Inasmuch as morning in a proper sense signifies the LORD, his coming, thus the approach
of his kingdom, it may be manifest what morning signifies besides, namely the arising of a new 
church, for this is the kingdom of the LORD in the earths, and this both in general, and in particular, 
yea even in singular; in general, when any church in the globe is raised up anew; in particular, 
when man is regenerating, and is made new, for then the kingdom of the LORD arises in him, and he
becomes a church; in singular, as often as the good of love and of faith is operative in him, for in 
this good is the LORD'S coming. Hence the resurrection of the LORD was on the third day in the 
morning, Mark 16:2, 9; Luke 24:1; John 20:1; all those things involve, in particular also and 
singular, that he rises again in the minds of the regenerate daily, yea every moment. AC 2405.

Verse 2. And says to them, they have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, &c. Amongst the 
secret reasons why they called JEHOVAH LORD, this was one, that had it been said at that time, that 
the LORD was the JEHOVAH so often mentioned in the Old Testament, they would not have received 
it, because they would not have believed. Another reason was, because the LORD was not made 
JEHOVAH as to his humanity, until he altogether united the divine essence to the human, and the 
human to the divine; plenary unification was effected after the last temptation, which was that of 

251

the cross, wherefore the disciples after the resurrection always called him LORD, John 20:2, 13, 15, 
18, 20, 25; 21:7, 12, 15, 10, 17, 30; and Thomas said, My Lord, and my God, John 20:28; and 
whereas the LORD was JEHOVAH, who is so often named in the Old Testament, therefore also he said
to the disciples, "You call me Master and LORD, and you say rightly, for I am," John 13:13, 14, 16, 
by which words is signified that he was JEHOVAH GOD. AC 2921, 4973.

Verse 12. And sees two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where 
the body of Jesus had lain. It is from representatives in heaven that linen signifies truth, for in 
heaven, they who are in the truth of the natural principle appear clothed in white, which white 
appears as from linen; that truth itself of the natural principle is also there represented as a 
contexture formed of the purer threads of linen. From these considerations it may now be manifest 
what is signified by the angels, who have been seen by men, appearing in linen garments, as in John
20:11, 12. AC 7601.

Inasmuch as by sepulchre in the spiritual sense is signified resurrection and likewise regeneration, 
and eminently by the sepulchre in which the LORD was laid, and since by angels in the Word is 
signified divine truth, therefore angels were seen one sitting at the head, and the other at the feet, 
and by the angel at the head was signified divine truth in first principles, and by the angel at the 
feet divine truth in. ultimate principles, each proceeding from the LORD, and effective of 
regeneration and resurrection when they are received. AE 687.

Verse 17. Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father, &c. Inasmuch as men rise again 
after death, therefore the LORD was willing to undergo death, and to rise again the third day, but to 
the intent that he might put off all the human principle which he had from the mother, and might 
put on the Divine Human [principle;] for all the human principle which the LORD took from the 
mother, he rejected from himself by temptations, and at length by death, and by the putting on of 
the Human [principle] from the divine itself, which was in him, he glorified himself, that is, made 
his Human [principle] divine. Hence it is that by his death, and by burial, in heaven is not 
understood death and burial, but the purification of his Human [principle] and its glorification. That
this is the case, the LORD taught by a comparison with the grain of wheat falling to the earth, that it 
must die in order to bear fruit. Something of the kind is also involved in what the LORD said to 
Mary Magdalene, "Touch me not, for I have not yet ascended to my FATHER," where by ascending 
to his father is understood the unification of his Human with his Divine [principle] the Human 
principle from the mother being fully rejected. AE 899.

Verse 17. But go to my brethren, &c. All in the universe are called brethren, who fall under the 
description of neighbour, and this by reason that every one ought to love his neighbour as himself, 
thus from a principle of love or of good: and whereas the LORD is good itself, and regards all from 
good, and is the real neighbour in the supreme sense, therefore he likewise calls them brethren, as 
in John, "JESUS said to Mary, Go to my brethren;" and in Matthew, "The king will say to them, 
Verily I say to you, inasmuch as you have done it to one of the least of these my brethren, you have 
done it to me," Matt 25:40. Hence now it is manifest, that brother is an expression of love. AC 
2360.

Verse 19. And the door being shut, where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came 
Jesus, &c. That the LORD was conceived by JEHOVAH the FATHER, and thus was GOD by conception,
is a thing known in the church; and likewise that he rose again with his whole body, for he left 
nothing in the sepulchre, and although he was a man as to flesh and bone, still he entered through 
the doors when shut, and after that he had manifested himself, he became invisible, John 20:19, 26. 

252

It is otherwise with every man, for man rises again only as to his spirit, and not as to the body. 
Hence now it is evident, that even the Human [principle] in the LORD is divine. AC 10825.

Since the Humanity of the LORD was glorified, that is, was made Divine, therefore he arose after 
death on the third day with his whole body; which never happens to any man, for he only rises as to
his spirit and not as to his body. That mankind might be assured, and that no doubt might be 
entertained, that the LORD arose with his whole body, he not only declared it by the angels who 
were in the sepulchre, but he also showed himself in his human body to his disciples; and when 
they imagined that they saw a spirit, he said to them, "Behold my hands and my feet that it is I 
myself: handle me and see; for a spirit has not flesh and bones as you see me have. And when he 
had thus spoken he showed them his 'hands and his feet," Luke 24:39, 40; John 20:20; and further, 
"He said to Thomas, Reach here your finger and behold my hands; and reach here your hand and 
thrust it into my side; and be not faithless but believing: then Thomas answered and said to him, 
My LORD, and my GOD," John 20:27, 28; and still further, to evince that he was not a spirit but a 
man, he said to the disciples, "Have you here any meat? And they gave him a piece of broiled fish,, 
and of a honey-comb: and he took it and did eat before them," Luke 24:41, 42, 43. As however his 
body was now no longer a material, but a divine substantial body, "He came in amongst the 
disciples whilst the doors were shut," John 20:19, 26; and after he had been seen "He vanished out 
of their sight," Luke 24:31. Being thus wholly divine, he was taken up, and sat on the right hand of 
GOD: for we read in Luke, "And it came to pass while JESUS blessed the disciples, he was parted 
from them, and carried up into heaven," Luke 24:51; and in Mark, "After he had spoken to them, he
was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of GOD," Luke 16:19. To sit on the right 
hand of God means, to possess Divine Omnipotence. D. L. 35.

Verse 19. And says to them, Peace be to you. In the supreme sense peace signifies the LORD; in the 
representative sense his kingdom, and good from the LORD there, thus the Divine [principle] which 
flows into good or into the affections of good, and which produces happiness and joys from an 
inmost ground: hence it is evident what is meant by these words of benediction, "JEHOVAH shall lift 
up his faces to you, and shall give you peace" Numb 6:26; and what by the usual salutation in old 
time, Peace be to you; and by the same salutation as used by the LORD to the apostles, John 20:19, 
21, 26. AC 3780.

Verse 22. And saying this he breathed on them, and says to them, Receive you the Holy Spirit, 
Respiration signifies the life of faith; hence the inspiration of the LORD signifies the faculty gifted 
of perceiving divine truths, and thus of receiving that life; whence also the name of spirit is from 
breathing and from wind, because from respiration, wherefore spirit is occasionally called wind. 
AC 9818.

The Holy Spirit is the divine proceeding from the LORD, the influx of which into the disciples was 
represented and is hence signified by his breathing into them. The reason why wind and respiration 
signify the influx of divine truth into the understanding, is grounded in the correspondence of the 
lungs with the intellect, concerning which see Angelic Wisdom concerning the Divine Love and 
Wisdom, DLW 371 to 429. AR 343. See also TCR 140.

The LORD'S breathing and saying to the apostles, Receive you the Holy Spirit, signifies the same as 
JEHOVAH breathing the soul of lives into the nostrils of Adam, namely spiritual life, for the Holy 
Spirit signifies divine truth proceeding from the LORD; and that they should teach it from the LORD, 
is signified by his words, As the Father has sent me, so send I you; for the LORD was divine truth 
itself when in the world, which he taught from his divine good which was in him from conception; 

253

this Divine [principle] is what the LORD here and in other places calls the FATHER; and whereas 
when he departed out of the world, he united divine truth to divine good, that they might be one in 
himself, and whereas on this occasion divine truth proceeds from himself, therefore he Said, As the 
Father has sent me, so send I you. AE 419. See also AC 9229, 9281.

Verse 28. And Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. Inasmuch as the LORD was 
now fully united to the Divine [principle] itself, which is called the FATHER, therefore Thomas calls 
him his Lord and his God. AE 815.

Verse 29. Jesus says to him, Because you have seen me, Thomas, you have believed; blessed are 
they who have not seen, and have believed. From these words it is evident that man at this day 
ought to believe what he does not see. That contingencies, which are frequently ascribed to chance 
or fortune, are of the Divine Providence, the church indeed acknowledges, but still does not believe.
For who does not say, when he escapes from any great danger, to appearance fortuitously, that he 
was saved by GOD, arid he also gives GOD thanks; when also he is exalted to honour, and comes to 
opulence, he calls this likewise a blessing from GOD; thus the man of the church acknowledges that 
contingencies are of providence, but still he does not believe. AC 5508.

Faith merely natural is the faith which is insinuated by an external way, and not by an internal one, 
like sensual faith, which consists in believing that a thing is so, because the eye has seen and the 
hand has touched; this is the faith, concerning which the LORD says to Thomas, "Because you have 
seen, Thomas, you have believed; blessed are they who have not seen, and have believed;" also, 
like the faith of miracles, which consists in believing that a thing is so, merely from miracles; also 
like the faith of authority, which consists in believing that a thing is so, because another has said so,
who is entitled to credit. But spiritual faith is what is insinuated by an internal way, and at the same 
time an external one, insinuation by an internal way causing it to be believed, whilst insinuation by 
an external way causes it to be confirmed; the spiritual principle of faith is the affection of charity, 
and hence the affection of truth for the sake of good use, and for the sake of life; these things make 
faith spiritual. AC 8078.

The sensual man cannot think otherwise than naturally, even respecting things spiritual; wherefore 
what is not an object of sense, that is, what he does not see with the eyes of his body, and touch 
with his hands, he says has no existence, as we read of Thomas, John 20:25, 27, 29. HH 461.

All they, who wish for miracles and visions, are like the sons of Israel, who when they had seen so 
many prodigies in Egypt, at the Red Sea, and on Mount Sinai, still within a month from the time 
departed from the worship of JEHOVAH, and worshiped a golden calf, Exodus xxxii. They are also 
like the rich man in hell, who said to Abraham, that if some one from the dead would go to his 
brethren, they would repent; to whom Abraham replied, "They have Moses and the prophets, let 
them hear them; if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one
rose from the dead," Luke 16:29, 30, 31. And they are like Thomas, who said that he would not 
believe unless he saw, to whom the LORD said, Blessed are they who have not seen, and have 
believed, John 20:29; they who believe, and do not see, are they who do not desire signs, but truths 
from the Word, thus Moses and the prophets, and believe them; these are internal men, and become 
spiritual, but the former are external and remain sensual; whilst therefore they see miracles, and 
believe only on the evidence of miracles, in their belief they are not unlike a handsome woman, 
who is inwardly infected with a deadly disease, which shortly proves fatal; they are also like apples 
with a beautiful rind, but inwardly corrupted; or they are like nuts in which is concealed a worm. 
Moreover it is a known thing, that no one can be compelled to love and to believe, but that love and

254

faith are to be rooted inwardly in man, consequently no one can be led to love GOD and to believe 
in him by miracles and visions, because they compel. For he, who does not believe from miracles in
the Word, how shall he believe from miracles out of the Word. AE 1156.

The LORD said to Thomas, "Because you have seen me, Thomas, you have believed; blessed are 
they who have not seen, and have believed;" by which is not meant faith separate from the internal 
acknowledgement of truth, but that they are blessed, who do not see the LORD with their eyes, as 
Thomas did, yet still believe that he is; for this is in the light of truth from the Word. Doc. Faith, 10.

Verse 31. And that believing, you might have life in his name. Inasmuch as the acknowledgement of
the LORD is the principal thing of spiritual life, and what is most essential in the church, and since 
without it no one can receive any thing of the truth of faith, and of the good of love out of heaven, 
therefore the LORD so often says, that he who believes in him has eternal life, and he who does not 
believe, has not life, as John 1:1, 4, 12, 13; 3:14, 15, 16, 36; 5:39, 40; 6:28, 29, 30, 34, 35, 40, 47, 
48; 7:37, 38; 8:24; 11:25, 26; 20:30, 31; but at the same time, he also teaches, that they have faith in
him, who live according to his precepts, so that life may thence enter faith. AC 10083.

Lest therefore an opinion should prevail, as is the case with the generality, that the mere name of 
JESUS CHRIST, without love and faith in him, thus without knowledges, by which love and faith are 
acquired, conduces any thing to salvation, it may be expedient to adduce some passages from the 
Word, where it is said, for the sake of his name, and in his name, from which they, who think 
deeply, may see that name alone is not understood, as Matthew 10:22; 24:9, 10; John 1:12; 2:23; 
3:17, 18; 20:31. AE 102.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 10. Then the disciples went away again to themselves. What is here rendered to themselves, is 
rendered to their own home, in the common version of the New Testament, but in the original Greek it is 
expressed by the words pros eautas, which is literally to themselves.

Verse 21. Then Jesus said to them, As the Father has sent me, even so send I you. In the original Greek, two 
distinct terms are here used to express the idea of sending, the first, or that which is applied to the FATHER, is
derived from the verb aposello, whilst the latter is from the verb pempo, whence it is to be concluded that 
the former has a more interior signification than the latter.

Verse 29. Jesus says to him, Because you have seen me, Thomas, you have believed; blessed are they who 
have not seen, and have believed. In the original Greek, what is here rendered seen, is expressed by two 
distinct terms, in the first instance, when applied to Thomas, by the term eorakas, and in the second instance,
when applied to those who have not seen, by idoetes, whence it is to be concluded that the latter term 
involves in it a more interior sight than the former.

255

John Chapter 21

Chapter 21

THE INTERNAL SENSE.

1. AFTER these things, JESUS 

manifested himself again to the 
disciples at the sea of Tiberias; but 
thus did he manifest [himself.]

2. There were together Simon Peter, 
and Thomas called Didymus, and 
Nathaniel of Cana in Galilee, and 
the [sons] of Zebedee, and two 
others of his disciples.

3. Simon Peter says to them, I go to 
catch fish. They say to him, We 
also come with you. They went out,
and went up into a ship 
immediately, and in that night they 
caught nothing.

4. But when the morning was now 

come, JESUS stood on the shore; but
the disciples knew not that it was 
JESUS.

5. Then JESUS says to them, Children, 
have you any meat? They answered
him, No.

6. But he said to them, Cast the net to 
the right part of the ship, and you 
shall find. They cast therefore, and 
now they were not able to draw it 
for the multitude of fishes,

7. Then that disciple whom JESUS 

loved says to Peter, It is the LORD. 
Simon Peter then, hearing that it 
was the LORD, girded on his coat, 
for he was naked, and cast himself 
into the sea.

8. But the other disciples came in a 
little boat, for they were not far 
from land, but about two hundred 
cubits, dragging the net of fishes.

THAT after his resurrection, the LORD manifested 
himself in common or general principles to those 
who were principled in good and truth, vs 1, 2.

And this at a time, when they were teaching the 
knowledges of truth and good for the reformation of 
mankind, but whereas they taught from themselves, 
and not from the LORD, therefore their teaching was 
fruitless, vs 3.

On which account they are gifted with interior light, 
yet faint, from the LORD, instructing them that they 
ought to do all things from the good of love and 
charity, and that thus natural men might be converted
to the truth, vs 4, 5, 6.

Which instruction is perceived to be from the LORD 
by those who are principled in the good of life, and 
also by those who are in the good of faith, therefore 
these latter are more and more confirmed in truth, 
though as yet it was in common or general 
principles, whilst the former, by the truth of doctrine,
seek to lead natural men to the good of life, vs 7, 8.

256

9. As soon then as they came to land, 
they saw a fire of coals laid, and 
fish laid thereon, and bread.

10. JESUS says to them, Bring of the 
fish which you have now caught.

Therefore they are made sensible of the divine 
presence in the truth of good, and in the good of 
love, and obeying the divine command, they 
acknowledge the fruitfulness and multiplication of 
good and truth, in all their fullness in the church, and
in their coherence, to be of the LORD, vs 9, 10, 11.

11. Simon Peter went up, and drew the 
net to land, full of great fishes, a 
hundred and fifty and three; and 
though there were so many, the net 
was not rent.

12. JESUS says to them, Come and dine;
but no one of the disciples dared 
ask him, Who are you? knowing 
that it was JESUS.

13. JESUS then comes, and takes the 
bread, and gives to them, and the 
fish in like manner.

14. This third [time] now JESUS was 
manifested to his disciples, being 
risen from the dead.

15. When then they had dined, JESUS 
says to Simon Peter, Simon, [son] 
of Jonas, love you me more than 
these? He says to him, Yea, LORD; 
you know that I love you. He says 
to him, Feed my lambs.

16. He says to him again the second 
time, Simon, [son] of Jonas, love 
you me? He says to him, Yea, 
LORD; you know that I love you. 
He says to him, Take charge of my 
sheep.

17. He says to him the third time, 

Simon, [son] of Jonas, love you 
me? Peter was grieved because he 
said to him the third time, Love 
you me? And he said to him, LORD,
you know all things; you know that
I love you. JESUS says to him, Feed 
my sheep.

Yet it is granted them of the divine mercy to 
appropriate to themselves that fruitfulness and 
multiplication, by incorporating into their own minds
and lives both good and truth from the LORD, 
whereby all doubt is removed concerning the divine 
presence, and they are fully convinced of the 
glorification of the LORD'S Humanity, vs 12, 13, 14.

On which occasion exploration is made concerning 
the conjunction of truth and good in the church, and 
divine admonition given, that it is the office of truth, 
or of those who are principled in truth, to instruct all 
who are in innocence, likewise all who are in the 
good of charity, and lastly, all who are in the good of 
faith, vs 15, 16, 17.

257

18. Verily, verily, I say to you, When 
you were young, you girded 
yourself, and walked whither you 
would; but when you shall be old, 
you shall stretch forth your hands, 
and another shall gird you, and 
carry you whither you would not.

Divine warning is also given at the same time 
concerning the separation of truth, or faith, from 
good, or charity, teaching that the faith of the church 
in its rise is in the good of innocence, but when it is 
in its setting, it would no longer be in that good, nor 
in the good of charity, but would be led by evils and 
falses, vs 18, 19.

19. But this he said, signifying by what
death he should glorify GOD. And 
saying this, he says to him, Follow 
me.

20. But Peter turning, sees the disciple 
whom JESUS loved following, who 
also lay on his breast at supper, and
said, LORD, who is it that betrays 
you?

But still the good of charity would remain with those
who are of the LORD, even to the end of the church, 
and when there is a new church, and not with those 
who are in truth separate from good, vs 20, 21, 22, 
23.

21. Peter seeing him, says to JESUS, 
LORD, but what [shall] this [man 
do?]

22. JESUS says to him, If I will that he 
remain till I come, what [is that] to 
you? Follow you me.

23. Then went forth this saying among 
the brethren, that that disciple 
should not die; yet JESUS said not to
him that he should not die, but, if I 
will that he remain till I come, what
[is that] to you?

24. This is the disciple that testifies of 
these things, and writes these 
things; and we know that his 
testimony is true.

25. But there are also many other 

things which JESUS did, the which 
if they should be written every one,
I suppose that, even the world itself
could not contain the books that 
should be written. AMEN.

For they, who are principled in the good of charity, 
bear faithful witness to the truth, being convinced of 
the truth by its light in their own minds, yet they 
cannot unfold the whole of the divine operation, 
because the church is not in a state to receive it, vs 
24, 25.

258

Exposition.

Verses 2 to 13. The reason why the LORD manifested himself to the disciples when they were 
fishing, was, because to fish signified to teach the knowledges of truth and good, and thus to 
reform; his commanding them to cast the net on the right side of the ship signifies, that they should 
do all things from the good of love and charity, for the right hand signifies that good which was to 
be a principle of action, since knowledges so far live, and are so far multiplied, as they are derived 
from good; they said also that they had laboured all the night and had taken nothing, by which was 
signified that nothing comes from self or the proprium, but all things from the LORD; the like was 
also signified by the fire on which the fish was placed, and by the bread, for by bread was signified 
the LORD, and the good of love from him, and by the fish on the fire the knowledge of truth from 
good, by the fish the knowledge of truth, by the fire good. At that time there were not any spiritual 
men, because the church was altogether vastated, but all were natural men, whose reformation was 
represented by that fishing, and likewise by the fish on the fire. He who believes that the fish on the 
fire, and the bread, which were given to the disciples to eat, were not significative of any thing 
higher, is very much deceived, for singular the things which the LORD did, and which he spoke, 
were significative of divine-celestial things, which are opened only by the spiritual sense. AE 513.

He who knows that fishes denote those who are in general [or common] truths, and in faith separate
from charity, may see the reason why the LORD chose fishers for his disciples, and why after his 
resurrection he gave to the disciples a fish and bread to eat, for the Gentiles, whom they converted, 
were principled only in general [or common] truths, and were more in a natural principle than a 
spiritual one, AR 405.

Verse 6. But he says to them, Cast the net to the right part of the ship, and you shall find. Those 
things which are on the right side of man correspond to good, from which truths are derived, and 
those on the left correspond to the truths which are productive of good. He who is unacquainted 
with this arcanum, cannot know what was signified by the LORD saying to the disciples when they 
were fishing, that they should cast the net on the right part of the ship, by which was represented, 
that to act and teach from GOD is to conclude innumerable things which are of truth, but not vice 
versa. AC 10061.

In heaven the right eye denotes the good of vision, and the left its truth, also the right ear denotes 
the good of hearing, and the left its truth, likewise the right hand denotes the good of the power of 
man, and the left its truth; in like manner in other similar cases; and since right and left have such 
signification, therefore the LORD said If your right eye offend you, pluck it out, and if your right 
hand offend you, cut-it off; by which he meant, if good becomes evil that it ought to be cast out, he 
also said to the disciples, that they should cast the net on the right part of the ship, and that when 
they did this, they took a great multitude of fishes, by which he understood, that they should teach 
the good of charity, and that thus they should collect men. CL 316.

Inasmuch as by fishing in the Word is signified the instruction and conversion of men, who are in 
external or natural good, in which good were several at that time amongst the Gentiles, for by 
fishes are signified those things which are of the natural man, and by a ship is signified doctrine 
from the Word, therefore by its right part is signified the good of life; hence it may be manifest 
what is signified by the LORD saying, that they should cast the net on the right part of the ship, 
namely that they should teach the good of life; that they would thus convert the Gentiles to the 
church, is signified by their finding abundance, so that they were not able to draw the net by reason

259

of the multitude of fishes; every one may see that the LORD would not have so spoken, unless the 
right part had been significative. AE 600.

Verse 9.; As soon as they came to land, they saw a fire of coals laid, and fish laid thereon and 
bread. By what is roasted is signified what is imbued with love, consequently what is good. A 
distinction is made in the Word between what is roasted and what is boiled, and by what is roasted 
is signified what is good, because prepared by fire, and by what is boiled is meant what is true, 
because prepared by water. From these considerations it is evident, what is meant in the spiritual 
sense by the masted fish, in Luke 24:42, 43; also what by the fish, laid on the fire, when the LORD 
was seen by his disciples after his resurrection, John 21:9. 13; for by fish is signified the truth of the
natural principle, but by fire good, thus by the fish lying on the fire the truth of spiritual good in the 
natural principle: he who does not believe in any internal sense of the Word, cannot believe 
otherwise than that nothing mysterious is involved in the fish on the fire, when the LORD appeared 
to the disciples, and in it being given to them by the LORD to eat. AC 7852.

Verses 15, 16. Jesus being manifested to Peter, said, Simon, son of Jonas, love you me more than 
these? He says to him, Yea, Lord, you know that I love you; he says to him, Feed my lambs. He says
to him again, Simon, son of Jonas, love you me? He says to him, Yea, Lord, you know that I love 
you; he says to him, Feed my sheep. By Peter here, as in other passages, is signified faith, and 
whereas faith is not faith unless it be grounded in charity towards the neighbour, and thus in love to 
the LORD, neither is charity and love any thing unless grounded in innocence, hence it is that the 
LORD first asks Peter whether he loves him, that is, whether love be in faith, and afterwards says, 
feed my lambs, that is, those who are in innocence; and then says after the same question, feed my 
sheep, that is, those who are in charity. AC 3994.

Lambs in the above passage denote those who are in innocence; sheep in the first place denote those
who are in good derived from good; sheep in the third place denote those who are in good derived 
from truth. AC 4169.

Inasmuch as lambs denote those who are in innocence, therefore the LORD said to Peter, first, feed 
my lambs, and afterwards feed my sheep, and again feed my sheep, where lambs denote those who 
are in the good of love to the LORD, for these are in the good of innocence above others; but sheep 
denote those who are in the good of charity towards the neighbour, and who are in the good of 
faith. AC 10132.

Verses 15 to 21. What is contained in these verses, cannot be known to any one except by the 
internal sense, which teaches, that the twelve disciples of the LORD represented all things of faith 
and love in the complex, like the twelve tribes of Israel, and that Peter represented faith, James 
charity, and John works, or the goods of charity. Inasmuch as faith without charity does not love the
LORD, and still can teach such things as relate to faith and love, and to the LORD, therefore the LORD
thrice said to Peter, Love you me, and feed my lambs, and feed my sheep; and therefore the LORD 
says, "When you were young, you girded yourself, and walked whither you would; but when you 
shall be old, you shall stretch out your hands, and another shall gird you, and lead you whither you 
would not;" by which words is signified that the faith of the church in its rise is in the good of 
innocence as an infant, but when it is in its setting, which is at the end of the church, it would then 
no longer be in that good, nor in the good of charity; and that in such case evil and the false would 
lead, which things are signified by when you shall be old, you shall stretch out your hands, and 
another shall gird you, and lead you whither you would not; thus from being free to become 
servile; to gird, denotes to know and apperceive truths in light from good, AC 9952; to walk, is to 

260

live according to them, AC 8417, 8420; hence to gird himself, and to walk whither he will, is to act 
from freedom, and to act from freedom is to act from the affection of truth derived from good, and 
to be led of the LORD; whereas to be girded by another, and to be led whither he would not, is to be 
a servant, and to be a servant is to act from evil, thus to be led of hell, AC 9096, 9586, 9589, 9590, 
9591; that the lambs of which the LORD first speaks, denote those who are in the good of innocence,
see AC 3974; that the sheep, of which the LORD speaks in the second and third place, denote those 
who are in the good of charity, and thence in faith, AC 4169, 4809; and that three denote a whole 
period from beginning to end, AC 2788, 4495, 7715, 9198, therefore since he spoke to Peter 
concerning the church from its rise to its setting, he three times said, love you me. But that John 
followed the LORD, signified that they, who are principled in the goods of charity, follow the LORD, 
and are loved by the LORD, neither do they recede; whereas they, who are in faith separate from 
charity, not only do not follow the LORD, but also are indignant on the occasion, as in this case 
Peter; not to mention several other arcana, which are contained in the above words. AC 10087.

Inasmuch as they, who are principled in truths derived from the good of love to the LORD, or in 
doctrine grounded in them, were represented by Peter, and since they are the persons who are to 
instruct others, therefore the LORD said to him, when he replied that he loved him, that he should 
feed his lambs and sheep, from which considerations it is very evident that Peter represented truth 
derived from the good of love to the LORD, wherefore also he was now called Simon, [son of] 
Jonas; for by Simon of Jonas is signified faith grounded in charity, by Simon hearing and 
obedience, and by Jonas a dove, by which is signified charity: that they who are principled in the 
doctrine grounded in love to the LORD are to instruct those who were of the LORD'S church, is 
understood by the LORD'S question, love you me; and afterwards by the words, feed my lambs and 
my sheep; not that Peter only was to instruct, but all those who were represented by Peter, namely 
those, as was said, who are principled in love to the LORD, and are thence from the LORD in truths: 
Peter being three times interrogated, signified a full time from the beginning of the church to its 
end, for three have this signification; wherefore when he was questioned a third time, it is said that 
Peter was sorrowful; and whereas the third interrogation signified the end of the church, therefore 
now follow these words of the LORD to Peter, "Verily, verily, I say to you, when you were young 
you girded yourself, and walked whither you would, but when you shall be old, you shall stretch 
forth your hands, and another shall gird you, and carry you whither you would not. And when he 
had said this, he said to him, Follow me; but Peter turning, sees the disciple whom Jesus loved 
following, who also lay on his breast at supper. Peter seeing him, says to JESUS, LORD, but what 
[shall] this [man do?] JESUS says to him, If I will that he remain till I come, what [is that] to you? 
Follow you me. Then went forth this saying among the brethren, that that disciple should not die; 
yet JESUS said not to him that he should not die, but, if I will that he remain till I come, what [is 
that] to you?" What the above words signify, cannot be known to any one, unless he knows that by 
Peter is signified faith grounded in charity, and likewise faith without charity; faith grounded in 
charity at the church's commencement, and faith without charity at the end of the church; thus that 
by Peter, when he was young, is signified the faith of the commencing church, and by it when he 
became old, the faith of the closing church, and that by girding and walking is signified to learn 
truths, and to live according to them; hence it is evident that by saying to him, when you were 
young, you girded yourself, and walked whither you would, is signified that the church in its 
beginning will be instructed in truths which are derived from good, and by them will be led of the 
LORD, and that by the words, when you shall be old, you shall stretch forth your hands, and another
shall gird you, and lead you whither you would not, is signified that the church, in its end, will not 
know truths but falses, which are of faith without charity, and will be led by them; to gird himself, 
signifies to be instructed in truths, the same as being clothed, because garments signify truths 
clothing good, and to walk, signifies to live according to them; hence to gird himself, and to walk 

261

whither he would, signifies to look around freely, and to see truths, and to do them; but to stretch 
out the hands, signifies not to be in that freedom, for the hands signify the power of truth from its 
understanding and perception, and to stretch out the hands, signifies not to have that power, hence 
neither the freedom of thinking and of seeing truth; another shall gird you, and lead you whither 
you would not, signifies that those things are to be acknowledged as truths which another dictates, 
and himself does not see, as is the case at this day with the tenet concerning faith alone. This faith 
is now understood by Peter, wherefore it is said, that Peter being turned, saw the disciple whom 
JESUS loved, following, and that he said concerning him, But what [shall] this [man do?] also that 
JESUS said to Peter, What [is that] to you? By the disciple following JESUS, are signified goods of 
life, which are good works, and that these were not to perish at the end of life, is described by 
following in the above passage. From these considerations it may be manifest, that by Peter is also 
signified faith separate from charity, as likewise when Peter three times denied the Lord; likewise 
when the LORD, turning from Peter, said to him, "Get you behind me, Satan, you are a scandal to 
me, because you savour not the things which be of GOD, but those which be of men;" and when the 
LORD said to him, "Simon, Simon, behold Satan has desired to have you, that he might sift you as 
wheat." All these passages are adduced to the intent that it may be known, that by Peter in the 
evangelists, in the representative sense, is signified truth derived from good which is from the 
LORD, also faith grounded in charity; and likewise in the opposite sense truth separate from good, 
which in itself is false, also faith separate from charity, which in itself is not faith. AE 820.

That by Peter in, the above passage is signified truth without good, or faith separate from good 
works, such as faith will be at the end of the church, see above, AE 820; and whereas by John are 
signified the good things of charity, which are called good works, and these appertain to those who 
constitute the LORD'S church, therefore John, not Peter, followed the LORD, and it was said by the 
LORD to Peter, on his asking, But what [shall] this [man do] if I will that he remain till I come, 
what [is that] to you? do you follow me; by which is meant, that still the good of charity was to 
remain with those who were of the LORD, even to the end of the church, and when there is a new 
church, and not with those who are in faith separate from that good, which is signified by those 
words to Peter, What [is that] to you? AE 821. See also AC 6073.

Inasmuch as John represented the good of life, and Peter the truth of faith, therefore John lay at the 
Lord's breast, and followed Jesus, but not Peter, John 21:18-23; the LORD also said concerning 
John, that he should remain till he came, verses 22, 23, thus to the present day, which is the LORD'S 
advent; wherefore also the good of life is now taught from the LORD for those, who shall be of his 
new church, which is the New Jerusalem. AR 16.

Verse 24. This is the disciple which testifies of these things, &c. See Extract at verse 35, chap. xix.

TRANSLATOR'S NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS.

Verse 15. Jesus says to Simon Peter, Simon, [son] of Jonas, love you me more than these? It is remarkable 
that in thrice repeating the question to Simon Peter, Love you me, the LORD applies the term, agapao, and in 
thrice answering the question, Simon Peter applies the term philo, which denotes the affection of friendship, 
more than of love, such being the affection by which all are influenced who are in the good of truth 
represented by Simon Peter.

Verse 16. He says to him, Take charge of my sheep. What is here rendered, Take charge of, is expressed by 
the term feed in the common version of the New Testament; but in the original Greek the term here used is 
poimaine, which properly signifies to watch over, or take charge of, as a shepherd watches over, or takes 
charge of, his sheep; whereas, to feed is expressed by the Greek bosko, as it occurs at verse 15, and again at 

262

verse 17. It is of importance therefore that the distinction between the two terms should be noted, because 
the internal sense is affected by it.

Verse 17. And he said to him, Lord, you know all things, you know that I love you. It is observable; that in the
original Greek two distinct terms are here applied In express you know, the first being derived from the verb,
eido, and the second from the verb ginosko, thus marking two distinct degrees of knowledge.

263

Translations from Original Text

accuses
acknowledges

This version
abide
abides

Original
abidest
abideth
accommodately appropriately
accuseth
acknowledgeth
acknowledgment acknowledgement
acknowlege
acteth
admissive
appeareth
appertaining
applieth
approacheth
aright
ariseth
art
askest
asketh
asunder
bearest
beareth
becometh
believest
Believest
believeth
belongeth
betrayeth
blasphemest
blasphemeth
bloweth
boweth
brake
bringeth
calleth
camest
canst
careth
causeth
climbeth
closeth
clotheth
cometh
Cometh
commixed
commixture
concupiscence
concupiscences
connexion
conquereth
consisteth
controul
controuling
convinceth

acknowledge
acts
accepting
appears
belonging
applies
approaches
right
arises
are
ask
asks
to pieces
bear
bears
becomes
believe
Believe
believes
belongs
betrays
blaspheme
blasphemes
blows
bows
break
brings
calls
came
can
cares
causes
climbs
closes
clothes
comes
Comes
mixed
mixture
craving
cravings
connection
conquers
consists
control
controlling
convinces

Instances
2
29
2
2
3
41
1
16
1
1
43
1
1
1
2
50
4
2
3
4
25
4
4
5
72
2
2
2
1
7
1
6
4
9
2
2
2
1
6
1
1
141
1
2
1
4
8
4
1
2
1
1
4

deceiveth
dependant
deriveth
despiseth
didst
dieth
disobeyeth
dispenseth
doest
doeth
Dost
dost
doth
Doth
drinketh
durst
dwelleth
eateth
effecteth
endureth
enlighteneth
entereth
evermore
existeth
experienceth
falleth
farther
findeth
fleeth
flieth
followeth
forasmuch
Forasmuch
from hence
from thence
fulfil
fulness
gathereth
gavest
girdedst
giveth
glorifieth
goest
goeth
grevious
grievious
hast
hateth
hath
Hath
heareth
henceforth
hither
holdeth

deceives
dependent
derives
despises
did
dies
disobeys
dispenses
do
does
Do
do
does
Does
drinks
dared
dwells
eats
effects
endures
enlightens
enters
ever more
exists
experiences
falls
further
finds
flees
flies
follows
for as much
For as much
from here
from there
fulfill
fullness
gathers
gave
girded
gives
glorifies
go
goes
grievous
grievous
have
hates
has
Has
hears
now on
here
holds

2
1
2
1
2
6
4
1
14
60
2
7
119
4
14
2
12
20
1
4
5
9
2
2
1
1
7
9
2
2
5
3
1
2
1
2
18
3
2
5
21
3
8
18
1
1
128
15
430
6
14
8
10
1

264

honoureth
howsoever
illuminateth
imputeth
inspireth
intendeth
intercedeth
intercourse
intuition
judgeth
judgment
judgments
Judgment
keepeth
killeth
knewest
knowest
Knowest
knoweth
layeth
leadeth
leaveth
like unto
liveth
Lovest
lovedst
lovest
loveth
makest
maketh
meaneth
neigbour
nigh
offereth
openeth
operateth
opposeth
passeth
perisheth
pleaseth
plungeth
possesseth
poureth
preceeding
proceedeth
profaneth
profiteth
purgeth
putteth
quickeneth
raiment
raiseth
reapeth
receiveth
receptible
recompence
redeemeth
reformeth

5
honours
2
however
1
illuminates
1
imputes
1
inspires
1
intends
1
intercedes
1
exchange
5
contemplation
15
judges
103
judgement
3
judgements
11
Judgement
12
keeps
4
kills
3
knew
29
know
2
Know
33
knows
4
lays
8
leads
2
leaves
4
like
18
lives
4
Love
2
loved
13
love
48
loves
4
make
9
makes
1
means
1
neighbour
13
near
5
offers
3
opens
4
operates
2
opposes
1
passes
4
perishes
1
pleases
1
plunges
1
possesses
2
pours
1
preceding
18
proceeds
1
profanes
6
profits
3
purges
4
puts
3
quickens
4
clothing
4
raises
7
reaps
receives
27
capable of receiving 1
2
compensation
1
redeems
1
reforms

regenerateth
rejecteth
rejoiceth
remaineth
remembereth
reposit
reposited
resembleth
riseth
runneth
saidst
saith
saveth
savourest
sayest
sayeth
scattereth
seekest
seeketh
seeth
seizeth
selecteth
sendeth
setteth
shalt
shewed
shewest
sheweth
shewing
shewn
shew
Shew
shineth
shouldest
sleepeth
smitest
soweth
spake
speakest
Speakest
speaketh
standeth
stedfast
steppeth
stinketh
stumbleth
subsisteth
sufficeth
sup
taketh
teacheth
telleth
testifieth
thee
they which
thine
Thine
thinketh

regenerates
rejects
rejoices
remains
remembers
reposition
repositioned
resembles
rises
runs
said
says
saves
savour
say
says
scatters
seek
seeks
sees
seizes
selects
sends
sets
shall
showed
show
shows
showing
shown
show
Show
shines
should
sleeps
smite
sows
spoke
speak
Speak
speaks
stands
steadfast
steps
stinks
stumbles
subsists
suffices
dine
takes
teaches
tells
testifies
you
they who
your
Yours
thinks

1
3
3
6
3
1
1
1
3
2
2
346
1
1
22
2
4
4
12
57
4
1
3
1
30
9
4
2
3
18
15
1
3
2
2
2
6
82
4
2
38
5
1
2
2
3
1
3
1
16
29
2
7
206
6
24
2
1

265

266

thou
Thou
thyself
thy
Thy
to-day
understandeth
uniteth
unition
unto
vail
vesture
vivifieth
viz
walkedst
walketh
wast
weepest
whatsoever
whensoever
wheresoever
whosoever
Whoso
willeth
wilt
Wilt
workest
worketh
wouldest
writeth
wrought
ye
Ye
endured exaction was afflicted

you
You
yourself
your
Your
today
understands
unites
unification
to
veil
clothing
vivify
namely
walked
walks
were
weep
whatever
whenever
wherever
whoever
Whoever
wills
will
Will
work
works
would
writes
worked
you
You

424
37
30
127
9
2
2
1
14
727
1
4
3
72
5
5
9
4
53
1
1
41
2
22
3
4
3
2
22
2
21
641
67
1

(If you disagree with these translations, please email IJT@biblemeanings.info) 

HENRY SMITH, PRINTER.

267

