
=== Adult

Several distinct discussion topics are outlined in the notes, any of which may be developed according to the interest of the class. The teaching of these last verses of the Bible is impressive and should be of deep concern to us all.

In the twenty-first chapter of Revelation we are told of the vision of the holy city New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven "prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." We have already had the New Church pictured as a "woman clothed with the sun." In @AR 533 we read that by this woman the church is signified "because the church is called the Bride and Wife of the Lord" and further that she was seen clothed with the sun "because the church is in love to the Lord, for it acknowledges Him and does His commandments, and this is to love Him." But we are told many times in the Writings that love gets all its "quality" from truth. So the final picture of the church is of a city, for a city signifies doctrine. And in the beginning of the twenty-second chapter John sees the "pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb." This river, like the river which watered the Garden of Eden, is divine truth from the Lord. On its banks grows the tree of life, the same tree which in the beginning was in the center of the Garden of Eden, "the Lord as to the Divine love," whose fruits are "the goods of love and charity," and whose leaves, which were "for the healing of the nations," are "rational truths therefrom, by which they who are in evils and thence in falsities are led to think soundly, and to live becomingly." (@AR 926)

The final verses of chapter 22, which are the subject of our lesson for today, should be carefully studied and fixed in mind by all of us who profess to belong to the New Church, for they summarize the fundamental teachings of the Word, which are the basis on which the New Church rests, and also show us clearly certain important implications of these teachings which we are prone to forget.

First there is the incident of John's impulse to worship his angel guide and the angel's rejection of this worship. A similar incident is recorded in Revelation 19:10. We know that we have angel associates from whom many of our thoughts come and we know that we can all help each other spiritually in many ways, but angels and men are all finite, and make mistakes, and each of us must himself study the Word constantly for his guidance in life.

In @AC 5432 we read: "They who have arrived at maturity, and still more they who have arrived at old age, and have not viewed with their own eyes the truths of the church, which are called doctrinal things, and seen whether they are true, and then been willing to live according to them, retain them merely as they do all other memory knowledges; they are in their natural memory only, and thence on their lips; and when they utter them, they utter them not from their interior man or from the heart, but only from the exterior man and from the mouth. When a man is in this state he cannot possibly believe that the truths of the church are true, although it seems to him that he so believes. The reason why it seems to him that he believes them to be true, is that he relies on others, and has confirmed in himself the teachings of others. It is very easy to confirm things taken from others, whether true or false; for this needs nothing but ingenuity." For the New Churchman the sole authority is the Lord speaking in His Word.

This leads to another interesting and important lesson presented by our assignment. When one attends churches other than the New Church, one is struck by the frequent use of the Epistles sometimes rather than the Gospels, and when one examines the basic doctrines of these churches, one finds that they rest on the Epistles and on the decisions of men at the Council of Nicea in A.D. 325. The apostles and early leaders of the Christian Church had a feeling that the Lord was God, which came out occasionally in their writings, as in Paul's statement in Colossians 2:9 that "in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily." There are those in churches dating back to the first Christian Church today who have and occasionally express the same "feeling." But without the rational basis provided by the opening of the Word — the leaves of the tree of life — their minds remain clouded by natural concepts. Read the Epistles of John. John was the beloved disciple, apparently closest of all to the Lord. Yet from his own letters there is constant evidence that he habitually thought of God as other than Christ. In his Gospel — under inspiration — he recorded the words of the Lord to Philip: "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father," but when he wrote from himself, the thought of the Messiah as the Son of God — the mediator in the sense of a go—between — persisted. When one looks to the ideas of men — seven of the apostles — for doctrine, one is not looking to the Lord. But in the book of Revelation under inspiration John recorded (Revelation 21:5-6) that he that sat upon the throne said, "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end," and in our chapter these words are repeated by the same speaker who says, "I Jesus," and the response to the promise in Revelation 22:20 is: "Even so, come, Lord Jesus."

Another thing which is told us clearly in our chapter is that man has freedom to choose whether he will believe and follow the Lord or not, and that no presentation of the truth in this world or the next will reverse his choice. All do not enter the holy city, though its gates are open and its living water is offered to all.

Finally we have the solemn warning against adding to or taking from the book. This warning is spoken specifically to those who acknowledge the truth as coming from the Lord — those who profess to belong to the church — and it applies most of all to those who have accepted the Lord in His Second Coming. "Blessed are they who do His commandments." For those of the New Church "His commandments" include all that He has revealed of the way of life by the opening of the Word. Yet our selfishness and worldliness are constantly prompting us to misinterpret what we read in the Word and the Writings so that it may teach what we want to believe. We are told that Revelation 22:18 signifies "that they who read and know the truths of doctrine of this book, now opened by the Lord, and yet acknowledge any other God than the Lord, and any other faith than in Him, by adding anything whereby they may destroy these two things, cannot do otherwise than perish from the falsities and evils, which are signified by the plagues described in this book." And essentially the same is said of those who "take away" from the words of the book. We should realize that worldly success and public approval may be "other gods" and must not be sought for ourselves or for our church organization at the cost of spiritual compromise and disobedience. When we begin to look to men instead of to the Lord for direction, we turn our steps away from the holy city. As the angel said to John: "See thou do it not ... worship God."

