
=== Primary

The little children will be deeply affected by the beautiful picture of heavenly happiness and the possibility of becoming angels themselves. The lesson of the importance of their daily choices of right and wrong follows naturally. The teacher should have in mind the six points suggested at the beginning of the lesson.

The last vision that was given to John was of a beautiful city, which was called the holy city New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven. You should always remember that our church is named for it: the Church of the New Jerusalem. This city is a picture of the heavenly life which the Lord gives us if we love and obey Him.

Our lesson today is from the very last chapter of the Bible. The chapter begins with a description of a river — "a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal" — on whose banks grew the tree of life, which bore twelve kinds of fruit. An angel had been showing John all these things, and now John tells us how his vision ended.

Do you remember another place in the Bible where we read about the river and the tree of life?

Do you remember how the Lord told the woman at Jacob's well that if she had asked Him, He would have given her living water?

"Living" water is pure truth from the Lord which comes to us in His Word. What did we learn not long ago about bearing fruit?

Now read Revelation 22:14 and 17.

Does everyone enter the holy city?

The Lord invites us all, but some people refuse the invitation. Can you think why?

What did John's angel guide say about himself?

The angel told John that he himself had been a man on earth; so we know that we may all become angels if we do right. We must learn the Lord's commandments and keep them so that we may "have right to the tree of life and enter in through the gates into the city." For although the gates of the city are always open, everyone does not enter.

You would think, wouldn't you, that everyone would want to live in that beautiful city, but you know some people really like to do wrong — sometimes we do ourselves — and that means that they like ugly and bad things better than beautiful and good ones. Which are you going to choose?

We can all be angels if we choose.

But we must learn the Lord's commandments and obey them.

