
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The real reason why the Lord performed miracles is the first important lesson in this class. Then call attention to the different kinds of miracles and their spiritual meaning, and spend the rest of the lesson time on the three miracles in our chapter. Be sure to make clear the difference between possession by devils in the Lord's time, and possession today.

---
The Gospel of Mark contains the account of many of the Lord's miracles. We have studied some of them — the healing of the man with the palsy, and of the man whose hand was withered. The Lord also opened the eyes of the blind, fed the multitude with five loaves and two fishes, walked on the sea, and stilled the storm. In addition to these, our chapter today teaches of two other types of miracle — the casting out of devils and the raising of the dead to life. All the miracles which the Lord wrought truly happened, but they were done not merely to help a few people in the Lord's time, but to teach us, through their inner meaning, what the Lord can do for our souls, if we believe in Him and obey Him. The condition of each miracle was faith and obedience.

In the beginning of our chapter, the Lord crosses the Sea of Galilee to the eastern side. We know that the Holy Land represents heavenly life, or that part of our life which is lived in acknowledgment of the Lord as a result of learning the truths of the Word. The cross—Jordan country pictures the part of us that has not yet been brought under the Lord's control in this way. So the man in this story is one who has not before been brought into contact with the Lord.

The man was possessed by devils. You remember that when the Lord came into the world, the power of evil had grown so strong and the knowledge of truth from the Word had been so perverted by the scribes and Pharisees, that people were at the mercy of evil. Evil spirits could really possess them against their will. The Lord in His inherited humanity took on all these temptations and overcame them, putting the hells in order under His control. It is possible for us now to be "possessed," but only with our own consent - that is, only as we choose to let evil desires and false thoughts control us.

The casting out of the devils shows us the Lord's power to drive out evil from our hearts if we go to Him as the man in the story did. The poor man was in terrible condition. So is everyone whom evil controls. He lived in the tombs among the dead bodies, just as an evil person is cut off from everything which is spiritually living. He broke all the chains with which people tried to control him, just as an evil person breaks the laws which are meant to keep him and other people safe. And this man, who was possessed against his will, was crying night and day and cutting himself with stones, which is a picture of how he suffered and tormented himself because he could not do what he knew was right.

We know that he was a good man at heart because "when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him." And the Lord healed him. Notice that there were many devils all working together in him. Although we see our evils one at a time, there are many associated with each one — we know, for example, that one sin can quickly lead to another. The swine into which the devils were allowed to go picture our greedy enjoyments. The devils destroyed even these. If we eat too much, we become sick and can no longer enjoy our food.

After this miracle the Lord returned into Galilee, and we have two more miracles. The poor woman was healed by merely touching the Lord's garment. Garments, as we have seen, picture the truths which clothe our affections, and the Lord's garments picture the Word. Luke says that the woman touched just the border of the Lord's garment, which represents the ten commandments in which the divine law is summed up in its lowest or most external form. Our blood is another correspondent of truth — truth as it circulates through our minds and brings strength to every part of us — so you can see that the woman is a picture of one who is constantly being weakened because the truth slips out of his mind. We are all in this state a good deal of the time. And when we are, the miracle says to us: "Keep the commandments." If we are careful to do that, then truth will not slip away from us.

Finally we have the great miracle of the restoring of life to the little girl who had died. Several times in the Gospel story we read of the Lord's raising someone from death, and we know that in the end of the story He Himself rose from the dead as the final proof that all life is in and from Him. In the story of the resurrection of Lazarus (John 11:1-44) He says: "I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." He had told His apostles that Lazarus was asleep. In our story He tells the mourners in the home of Jairus, "the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth." The lesson the Lord is teaching us is that we should understand that dying is just like going to sleep, and we know how welcome sleep is when we are tired. The Lord woke Lazarus and Jairus' daughter again in this world because He had this lesson to teach us. When we die, He wakes us in the spiritual world, a far more beautiful and happy world than this. When we wake there we shall all realize that that world and not this one is the real, living world where all true happiness is to be found.

