
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In taking up the story of the demoniac, try to impress the children with the fact that the bad thoughts and impulses they have are actually inspired by evil spirits and that they do not need to be slaves as the demoniac was. It takes real courage to say "no." Relate this thought to their association with playmates. Stress the Lord's courage and our need of His help. One of the temptations which is beginning to be very active at the Older Children' age is the temptation to excuse one's shortcomings on the ground of hindering external circumstances. It cannot be too often brought home to the children of this age that we are all able to do right with the Lord's help, if we will. A full discussion of the subject of death is also in order with this group.

---
What is a miracle?

In our lesson for today, where had the Lord gone?

The Gospel of Matthew in telling this story says the Lord went to the country of the Gergesenes. Gergesa is a little village near the shore of the Sea of Galilee and is probably the place where the miracle actually took place, but the people could be called either Gergesenes or Gadarenes because Gadara was the principal city of the region. Find Gergesa and Gadara on a map.

The tombs were places, usually outside of the cities, where the bodies of the dead were brought for burial. According to the Israelitish law, dead bodies were "unclean," and those who had touched one could not enter the tabernacle until they had gone through a process of purification which took seven days (Numbers 19:11-13). The tombs were considered unclean because of the dead bodies in them. So the poor man of our story was an outcast, cut off even from religious worship. Yet he was really a good man. How do we know this? Read Mark 5:6.

What was the matter with the man?

How did this affect him?

How had people tried to control him?

Did you ever hear anyone say, "I don't know what possessed me to do that"? Or did your mother ever say to you when you were being particularly naughty, "You just seem to be possessed today"? There is a real fact behind such statements. Devils are people in the other world who, while they lived on earth, allowed selfishness to rule in their hearts and so came to hate everyone who did not do just what they wanted. They love to stir up our own selfishness and to suggest bad thoughts to our minds. The Lord allows them to do this because we have to see our selfishness and conquer it of our own free will before we can learn to do what the Lord wants us to do. You remember that this was why John the Baptist had to go before the Lord telling people to repent. Even in this world we sometimes do as the devils do. Did any other child ever try to persuade or to tease you into doing wrong? Perhaps you have even done this yourself to someone else, for we all have such bad tendencies in us.

We know, however, that we can always say "no" to the devils, if we will. This is because the Lord, when He came into the world, overcame all these temptations and showed us how to overcome them with His help. But in the Lord's day people had lost the way and could really become "possessed with the devil" even when they wanted to be good.

When the Lord asked the devil his name, what did he say?

This is always true, as we know when we think about it. If you are bent on doing something that you know is wrong, you are tempted to do a good many other wrong things in order to get your way, such as lying and cheating and even hurting someone you really love. No temptation ever comes alone. The devil's name is Legion. When the Lord commanded the devil to come out of the man, what permission did the devil ask?

What do we mean when we say that a person is a pig?

The pig represents our desire to satisfy our bodily appetites without thought of anything else.

What happened to the swine when the devils entered into them?

Perhaps our first thought is to be sorry for the poor pigs, but the Lord allowed this to happen to teach us that selfishness, when it is allowed to have its way, will in the end destroy even our ability to enjoy the good things of this world.

What was the man doing at the end of the story?

The Lord then came back across the Sea of Galilee. Many people were gathered around Him.

Who came to Him for help?

What did he want?

How do we know that he had faith in the Lord?

As the Lord was going with the ruler of the synagogue, another miracle of healing took place.

How was the woman healed?

What did the Lord tell her was the reason for her healing?

The garments which clothe our bodies are a picture of the truths which clothe our affections. The Lord's garments always picture the Word, because the Word is the expression to us of the Lord's love and wisdom. Touching the Lord's garment, and especially the border of His garment (see Luke 8:44) is trying to live according to the commandments. If we will do this, our weaknesses and faults will be overcome. But we must believe that there is this power in the commandments, just as the woman believed the Lord could heal her.

As they went along, people came from the house to Jairus to tell him that his daughter was dead, but the Lord reassured him and went on.

Whom did He take with Him?

When He came to the house, what did He tell the mourners? Did they believe Him?

How did He raise the little girl?

How old was she?

What did He tell the people to do for her?

We learn from this story not only that the Lord has power over death, but that death is really only a short sleep. The Lord loves to help all people who are in trouble or sorrow, and He was glad to help the people for whom He performed the miracles. But He was really teaching all of us that all life and power come from Him, and that, if we have faith in Him, He can make our souls well and strong and give us eternal life.

