
=== Senior

Call attention to the different types of people and different types of affliction dealt with in this chapter. The Seniors need to understand the Lord's purpose in performing the miracles, and that each miracle is a study in itself, and they need to see that all the afflictions are found in each of us in greater or lesser degree. We are to recognize and fight our evils in the Lord's strength, believing fully in His power to overcome them in us if we are faithful.

---
While He was on earth the Lord healed not only the bodies but the minds and souls of men. He does the same for us, if we follow Him wholly.

The first miracle of our lesson is one primarily of the healing of the mind. We need to notice that it took place in the cross—Jordan country, outside the Holy Land proper. So it pictures something in the Lord's approach to those who have not been "brought up in the church," and to those things in ourselves which we have not previously brought under the influence of religion.

We need to note also that the man in the story was essentially a good man, since "when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him." But he was possessed by devils and lived among the tombs; he could not be controlled by men, even with chains, and he went about unhappily, sometimes in the mountains and sometimes in the tombs, "crying, and cutting himself with stones." What a vivid picture this is of a person who desires to be good and who has his high moments, yet who, because he has not yet been brought into touch with the Lord's power to save, is a slave to strong passions and, falling into evils, torments himself constantly with the knowledge of his unhappy state. It is also a picture of each one of us in the face of some besetting sin which we are trying to overcome in our own strength and which we have not yet taken to the Lord for help.

We are told in the writings that in the Lord's day people were actually subject to becoming possessed by devils against their wills because the religious leaders had so perverted the Word that men no longer had access to the truth necessary to the preservation of their spiritual freedom. That was why the Lord came just when He did to take on our finite human nature at its worst, fight and overcome the evils in it, and so to reduce the hells to order and bring them forever under His own rule. People today can still be possessed by devils, but only if they have freely chosen the evils and falsities which are urged upon them.

The fact that the devil's name was "Legion" reminds us that every evil to which we yield involves us in many other evils. Even a small child can recognize that when he does what he knows to be wrong, he is immediately tempted to conceal it by lies.

Swine picture the affection for satisfying our physical appetites; so it was wholly appropriate that the devils should be allowed to enter into the herd of swine. But then they violently rushed the swine to destruction. When we allow our physical appetites to control us, they finally destroy all satisfaction in physical pleasures; whereas, if we keep our physical appetites under control of our spiritual reason, and exercise them only as the Lord would have us, we maintain not only our physical health but also our keen enjoyment of the good and beautiful things of the physical world. It is perhaps characteristic of our materialistic society that so many people in reading this story are more concerned over the fate of the swine than over the healing of the demoniac.

After the healing of the demoniac the Lord came back across the Sea of Galilee and we read (verse 21) that "much people gathered unto him." Back in the Holy Land again, the miracles concern those who have the Word. The two classes of the good among those who have the Word are pictured by the two principal figures in the story, the ruler of the synagogue and the poor woman. They are like the Wise Men and the shepherds in the Christmas story. The ruler represents the learned among the people and the woman the simple good. We know that there were not many among the learned who accepted the Lord, but there were a few, of whom Jairus was one. When he saw that his daughter was at the point of death, he immediately sought the Lord, declaring his sure belief in the Lord's power to save her. On the way to the home of Jairus - in the process of giving the new truth needed — the Lord healed the woman with the issue of blood who pictures the simple good people who knew that their life blood was ebbing away but did not understand how or why, and had tried all sorts of means of healing without success (see verse 26). Jairus pictures those who knew that their nation had lost its vitality and who watched for the coming of the Messiah to save it. His daughter pictures this spiritual affection.

The woman was healed by touching the Lord's garment — Luke says the border of His garment. The Lord's garment is the letter of the Word and its hem the ten commandments. For simple good people, represented by the woman, obedience to the commandments from the recognition that they are from the Lord restores ebbing spiritual life and re—establishes health. The ruler of the synagogue needed something more. He needed the full communion represented by the laying on of the Lord's hands. He had the Law and presumably had observed it outwardly, but he needed to feel the Lord's power within it, and once he had felt this power, he needed new nourishment to sustain his new life (verse 43).

In the Scriptures death, paradoxically, usually signifies resurrection. This is because what to us seems to be the end is to the angels the beginning of life. The spiritual world is the real world and the spiritual life is the real life. Those who live only for this world are really dead, for everything living is of the spiritual world. The Lord gave the Word and came into the world Himself to fulfill the Word, just so that we should not spend our lives here in vain. Our lives are given us for the sole purpose of developing heavenly character.

The three steps toward regeneration are clearly pictured in these last two miracles: belief in the Lord, obedience to the commandments, and the effort to receive spiritual life at the Lord's hands.

