
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the tabernacle as a whole, of its three divisions, and of the three metals used and the place of each in the structure makes a well-ordered and on the whole simple lesson. The teacher, however, should also familiarize himself with the meaning of the articles of furniture and may add these if he has time.

---
After about three months in the wilderness, the Israelites came to Mount Sinai and camped on the plain at the foot of the mountain. There they remained nearly a year. You may easily see that after hundreds of years in Egypt, the latter part of which was spent in slavery, they were not a very well—organized people. Since they had forgotten even the name of their God, they must also have forgotten all that had been told Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob about how their God wanted them to live and to worship. At Sinai, therefore, the Lord gave them first the ten commandments.

These all the people heard, for they were given by the living voice of the Lord from the top of the mountain from the midst of fire and smoke. Then Moses was called up into the mountain and given detailed laws for their conduct and worship. These laws are found in the books of Exodus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and especially in the book of Leviticus. They are often called the Levitical laws, because the members of the tribe of Levi were set apart to have charge of the worship.

Among the instructions given Moses at Sinai were those for the construction and furnishing of the tabernacle. The tabernacle, as well as the temple which followed it, was to be the dwelling place of the Lord among the Israelites. From the mercy seat above the ark in the Holy of Holies the Lord spoke to the high priest. The pillar of cloud and fire stood over the tabernacle throughout the times when they were camped. The tabernacle pictures the dwelling place of the Lord in each one of us, and in its inmost sense it pictures the divine humanity of the Lord in which He dwells forever with men. So the pattern of the tabernacle becomes the pattern of life by which we ought to form our characters, and its every detail is full of meaning for us.

We cannot study all these details in a single lesson: so let us think of the three divisions and of the three metals used. The three divisions were the Most Holy Place or Holy of Holies, the Holy Place, and the outer court. These correspond to will, thought, and outward act in us. The Holy of Holies was concealed by a veil which was never withdrawn. The people never saw within it. In the same way, our inmost heart is concealed from view: even we ourselves seldom see what is really there. The Holy Place was also veiled, but by curtains which were moved frequently as the priests went in and out in the service of the tabernacle. In the same way, our thoughts are in general concealed, but people are constantly getting glimpses of them in our conversation and in the expressions of our faces. The outer court was open to all, as is our outward life. The chart found with the last lesson will show you what furniture was in each division of the tabernacle. Each piece, of course, has its correspondence.

Now think of the metals used. All the wood — which corresponds to what Swedenborg calls "corporeal /physical, bodily/" good, the kind of natural impulse which makes us hate to pass a beggar on the street without giving him something — had to be overlaid with gold, which pictures genuine love coming from the recognition that the Lord alone is good. The inner covering was joined with fastenings of gold, to picture the power of true love to unify the whole life. The bases which supported the walls of the tabernacle proper were of silver, the symbol of truth which must support our emotional as well as our intellectual life. But the fastenings of the third covering — the one of rams' skins — were made of brass or bronze, and so were the pillars and their bases on which the curtains of the outer court were hung. Brass or bronze pictures natural good, the kind of good which tries to make conditions in the world better. This kind of good is the foundation of the outward life and its unifying clement.

We must note also the fact that everything used in the building and furnishing of the tabernacle was a free—will offering from the people, which pictures the fact that nothing really becomes a part of our character which we do not freely choose. The whole development of a spiritual character in us comes as we freely give ourselves to the service of the Lord and the neighbor. We should note, too, that the Lord "put it in the heart" of certain chosen ones of the people to do the work and gave them wisdom for their task. If we really want to serve the Lord, He will show us how from day to day.

