
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors can be given an idea of the meaning of the three parts of the tabernacle in our lives, and if they grasp this readily the teacher may go on to speak simply of the meaning of the furnishings in each part. The literal facts, however, are of first importance with this age group.

---
What is a tabernacle?

Why was the first church of the Israelites a tent?

The tabernacle itself was about fifteen feet wide and forty-five feet long, and the court which surrounded it was about seventy-five feet wide and a hundred and fifty feet long. A cubit is the length from the elbow to the tips of the fingers, or about a foot and a half. All the materials for the tabernacle and its furnishings were brought to Moses by the people as free—will offerings, and we read in Exodus 36:1-2 that the Lord put wisdom in the hearts of certain men to do the work properly.

The tabernacle proper was divided into two parts by a beautiful curtain called the veil. The inner division was a cube and was called the Most Holy Place or the Holy of Holies. The other division was called the Holy Place.

What were the walls of the tabernacle made of?

What were the bases for these walls made of?

The boards were so made that they would fit together when they were placed upright in the bases, and they were held together by long bars which ran through rings of gold. So the tabernacle could be set up and taken down very quickly. When they camped it was always to be set up in the center, and when they marched it was carried in the center of the line of march. Only the Levites, the descendants of Jacob's third son Levi, could handle the tabernacle.

What three coverings were made for the top of the tabernacle?

What was the fence around the outer court made of?

What was used to cover all the wood of the tabernacle?

What were the bases for the boards made of?

What were the posts on which the curtains of the outer court were hung and their bases made of?

Notice that the couplings of the inner covering of the tabernacle were of gold, but those of the outer covering were of brass or bronze. Try to remember the three metals used in the tabernacle and where they were used, because when you are older you will learn that there was a very deep reason in this. The wood used is thought to have been the wood of the thorny acacia tree. Study the chart with the last lesson to see what the furniture of the tabernacle was and where each piece was placed.

Now look up John 2:18-22. The tabernacle, like the temple which followed it, was built to be the dwelling place of the Lord with men. When the Lord Himself was on earth, the human body in which He lived was His dwelling place, and so He called it the temple also. But we can have a dwelling place of the Lord in us, too, and this is a heavenly character which is also a temple of the Lord. Look up 1 Corinthians 3:16. This temple in us is also divided into three parts. Our "Holy of Holies" is our inmost heart, where the Lord reaches us and speaks to us. Our "Holy Place" is our mind, where we think about the Lord and about what we ought to do. And our "outer court" is our behavior, which is open for everyone to see. You notice that the only piece of furniture in the Holy of Holies was the ark, and you will remember that the ark was a chest made to hold the two tables of stone on which the ten commandments had been written by the finger of God. Now look up Deuteronomy 6:6, Psalms 40:8 and 119:98, Isaiah 51:7, and Jeremiah 31:33. Can you see how clearly we are taught what is meant in our lives by the ark's being in the Holy of Holies of the tabernacle?

