
=== Primary

The description of the tabernacle will interest the younger children. Emphasize the colors and the embroidery. This is a good lesson in which to present the thought of the church as the Lord's house and to discuss why we go to church. Working on the basis of the plan of the tabernacle, describe as many as possible of the details of its construction and furnishings. Stress especially the three parts, and the use of the three metals.

You know, don't you, that the church is called the Lord's house? The Lord is near to us all the time, although we can't see Him, but He is especially near in church because there we are thinking and talking about Him and trying to learn what He wants us to do.

When the children of Israel stayed on in Egypt for so many years, they forgot all about the Lord and how to worship Him. So before they had been in the wilderness very long, He brought them to the foot of a great mountain called Mount Sinai and had them camp there. Then He called Moses up to the top of the mountain and told him that He was going to give the people the laws by which they were to live and all the directions for their worship. Then the Lord came down upon the mountain in fire and spoke the ten commandments so that all the people heard them.

Afterwards He told Moses just how to build the tabernacle, the house in which they were to worship Him. You know that the children of Israel were traveling through the wilderness; so they could not have houses and churches like ours. They had to live in tents, and their church had to be a tent, too.

The tabernacle was about forty-five feet long and fifteen feet wide.

What were the walls made of?

What was it covered with?

What was the entrance?

Another curtain, called the veil, divided the tabernacle into two parts.

The inner part was called the Most Holy Place or the Holy of Holies, and the other part was called the Holy Place.

Outside was an open court surrounded by curtains hung on posts.

All the wood in the tabernacle was covered with gold.

The bases on which the boards were set were of silver.

The posts for the outer fence and their bases were of bronze.

Your teacher will show you a plan of the tabernacle and help you to understand it.

