
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson to be impressed at this age is that of the well-ordered life in which religion is at the center. We know that young people frequently drift away from the church when they leave home and their early associations. They need to think of the church as their own individual responsibility wherever they are, to be carried with them as the directive and organizer of all their plans and activities.

---
We are told specifically several times in the Word that the tabernacle and everything in it was made according to the pattern shown to Moses "in the mount" by the Lord Himself. And it is evident from several statements in the Epistles that the Lord showed His disciples that this was also the pattern of a heavenly character (see, e.g., Hebrews 8:5).

The three divisions — the Holy of Holies, the Holy Place, and the outer court — refer to the heart, the mind, and the outward life. Every detail of the structure and its furnishings pictures some essential detail of a heavenly character. The three metals — gold, silver, and brass or bronze — for example, were used in exactly the places where their correspondents — love, truth, and natural good - must be used to consecrate, unify, and support the character. The curtains of "fine twined linen" are interpreted for us in the letter of the Word itself, "for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints" (Revelation 19:8).

Swedenborg tells us that this fine twined linen is truth from a celestial origin, that blue signifies the celestial love of truth, purple the celestial love of good, and scarlet spiritual good or the good of truth. And the cherubim, like those on the mercy seat and those set to guard the gates of the Garden of Eden, picture the guard set by divine providence "lest heaven be approached and injured by the hells." The curtains of goats' hair signify the external of heaven, or truths from external celestial good; the rams' skins, external truths; and the badgers' skins, external goods. Perhaps these terms seem obscure and the distinctions between them hard to draw, but they are of profound meaning. We can think of the coverings of the tabernacle as the degrees of truth which clothe and protect our inner motives and thoughts, and can get some idea of their complexity by trying to analyze our efforts to express some deep feeling or some beautiful flash of inspiration which has come to us.

The fact that all the wood used had to be overlaid with gold reminds us that our natural kindly impulses must always be glorified by genuine love to the Lord if they are to serve in the building of true character. Otherwise they serve only to build up our self-satisfaction. And the careful description of the necessary bases and pillars and of the many loops and clasps and bars which joined the whole together emphasizes the fact that true character must be founded on sure truth and built into a consistent whole. We are reminded of the house founded on a rock and of Jerusalem "builded as a city that is compact together." A heavenly character which can make us a dwelling place of the Lord is not formed by wandering through life governed by the impulses of the moment or by what other people will think of us. It is not formed by merely "meaning well." It is formed only by studying and conforming to the "pattern showed at the mount."

