
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson should be used to re—emphasize our individual responsibility for our own spiritual progress and also for the development of the New Church in the world.

---
We complete our study of the Word with a lesson on part of the last two chapters of Revelation, John's vision of the holy city New Jerusalem, which he saw coming down from God out of heaven "prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." The holy city is the New Church in heaven, by means of which the New Church is being established on earth. You remember that the first verse of the Bible tells us that, "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth," and that this really means the heaven and the earth in us, the heavenly and the earthly part of us. And in the Lord's Prayer we say, "Thy kingdom come, as in heaven so upon the earth." We have to have goodness and truth in our hearts and minds if we are to do genuine good on earth. The holy city, which is "the bride" of the Lord, and "the woman clothed with the sun," comes down from heaven to earth only as fast as individual men and women on earth learn the truths revealed by the Lord in the opened Word, live according to them, and come to love them.

This is our responsibility as New Churchmen. The New Church organization is necessary to the existence of the New Church in the world, as our bodies are necessary to our souls while we live here, but it is the true New Church only as it obeys the truth which comes down from God out of heaven.

Our lesson for today emphasizes this fact. In the beginning of chapter 22 we read of the "pure river of water of life" which John saw, on whose banks grew the tree of life — the same tree which in the beginning was in the center of the Garden of Eden. The tree of life is the Lord as to His divine love, and its fruits are genuine good works. The river is truth from the Lord coming to us in His Word - the same living water of which the Lord told the woman of Samaria at Jacob's well. Read Revelation 22:14. Unless we learn the Lord's commandments and do them, we are not really living in the holy city or doing genuine good here on earth, nor will we live in the holy city and eat the fruit of the tree of life after we die.

You notice that the angel who had been showing John the holy city and its wonders was careful to prevent John from worshiping him, and told him that he was a mere man like John himself, who had kept the commandments of the Word. You will find that some churches teach that the angels are not men who have lived on the earth, but are a higher creation of the Lord's. This idea is apparently based on a single verse in the King James version of the Scripture, Psalm 8:5, which says of man: "Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels." We should know that this is a mistranslation, for the Hebrew word translated "angels" is Elohim, which means "God." We are all potential angels.

When we read in Revelation 22:10 that "the time is at hand" and in Revelation 22:12 "behold, I come quickly," we know that it is the Second Coming of the Lord that is meant. This is why John is told not to seal the book. For we know that in His Second Coming the Lord opened the Word and revealed its inner meaning. We wonder sometimes why our church is so small — why everyone does not see what wonderful things the Lord has revealed. The rest of our chapter shows us the reason.

Whenever we see a truth clearly and acknowledge that it is true, we become responsible for living according to that truth. Many people would rather remain blind to the truth for this reason. You remember what the Lord said to the Pharisees after He had opened the eyes of the man born blind. The Lord knew that the opening of His Word would not immediately change everyone. That is what Revelation 22:11 means. Each one of us has to choose for himself whether he prefers to be guided by the Lord or to follow his own will. The invitation which is given in Revelation 22:17 is addressed to everyone. The truths of the Word are available to all who want them. But in Revelation 22:18-19 we are warned that we must take them as the Lord has given them to us. The moment we begin to add ideas of our own or to reject some things the Lord says because we do not want to obey them, we are putting self before the Lord, and the Lord can no longer keep us safe and lead us to heaven. If we do not attain heaven, it is our doing, not the Lord's. The Lord once said to His disciples (John 12:47-48): "And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day."

