
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class the lesson may be taken up a verse or two at a time. Impress upon them the comparisons between the beginning and the end of the Bible, calling attention to the fact that in the last verse God is specifically called "our Lord Jesus Christ."

---
Now we come to the end of John's vision, which is also the end of the Bible. We have studied chapter 21 and parts of chapter 22. If you do not remember them, you should read them over, for they tell of the beautiful vision of the holy city New Jerusalem - for which our church is named — coming down from God out of heaven, and of the "pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb," beside which grew the tree of life, "which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month." Perhaps you remember that the river and the tree of life were both in the Garden of Eden in the beginning of the Bible story. You want to put this away carefully in your memory, for it has a very deep meaning.

The holy city is a picture of the New Church as it is in heaven, the river is the truth which comes to us from the Lord, and the fruit of the tree of life is genuine goodness of all kinds. This city is descending to earth as fast as men and women on earth are willing to receive the truth and form their lives according to it; so it is symbolic of the true New Church on earth, to which we are all trying to belong.

An angel had been showing John all these things.

In Revelation 22:8 what did John do? What did the angel tell him, in Revelation 22:9?

This is one of the verses in the Word which tells us plainly that the angels were once men and women on earth, so that we may know that we shall become angels if we live as we should. Notice that John was told not to seal this book as the books of the Word before had been sealed. This was a vision of the time when the Lord would open the Word so that anyone who really wanted the truth might understand it. And the next verse tells us that we are free to choose whether or not we will live the beautiful life the Lord wants us to live and be in heaven when we die. We must make our choice here in this world, for we do not change our essential character after death.

The Lord several times calls Himself the alpha and omega. These are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet and, as we are told here, it means that He is "the beginning and the end, the first and the last." Do you remember the first four words of the first verse of the Bible? Now read the last two verses of the Bible. Jesus Christ is God, the first and the last.

Who have right to the tree of life?

Who may take the water of life?

In Revelation 22:18 and 19 what two things are we told not to do?

Do you remember how the Lord told the woman of Samaria at Jacob's well that if she had asked Him, He would have given her living water? In the Word, divine truth is offered freely to everyone and we are told plainly the conditions on which we may attain heavenly happiness. If we choose not to believe the Lord and not to learn His commandments and obey them, it is just because we do not want to. To add to the Word and to take away from it mean to think our own ideas are better than the Lord's as to what is right and wrong and what will bring us happiness. Whichever of these things we do, we shall suffer unhappy consequences, because the Lord is both all-loving and all-wise and His way is always best.

You have all learned the first verse of the Bible. You can easily learn the last verse because it is one you have heard so frequently in church. Grace means "acceptance," and so, as we begin with the acknowledgment that God created all things, we end with the prayer that what we make of the lives He has given us may in the end be found acceptable to Him. This is the real object of our whole life.

