
=== Notes for Parents

In this closing chapter of the Bible is summed up all the teaching of the Word. We remember that the first verse in the Bible is: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth," and now the same God identifies Himself plainly as Jesus Christ and calls Himself "Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last."

The heaven and the earth which He created in the beginning are not only the physical world but the heaven and earth in our souls, the heavenly and the earthly part of us. We all develop the earthly part in order to live in this world, but we are not always so careful to develop the heavenly part. And yet if we do not begin to develop it here, we cannot begin after death, as the Lord plainly tells us in Revelation 22:11.

Near the beginning of the Bible we have the story of the Garden of Eden, watered by its great river and with the tree of life at its center. That is a picture of the beautiful state in which the people of the first church on earth lived, before they listened to the reasoning of the "serpent" (our sense appetites) and turned from the Lord to self. In the course of our lessons we have seen how far from the Lord they traveled and how the Lord in His mercy followed them down, teaching them and trying to save them from themselves, until finally He came into the world Himself, as the Word made flesh, to live out divine truth before men's eyes and so show them how to recognize and conquer their evils. His coming turned the tide.

Now in the closing chapters of the Bible we find the "river of water of life" and the tree of life again, this time in the holy city New Jerusalem, which was seen "coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." This prophecy has been fulfilled. The Lord has now opened the seals and revealed the inner meaning of His Word. The holy city is the New Church which is developing as a result — the "woman clothed with the sun" of whom we have read. The Second Coming of the Lord which was promised in our chapter took place some two hundred years ago, and our church takes its name from this holy city New Jerusalem.

Let us not be of those who refuse to drink of this living water, or of those who try to add to or take away from the divine truth by their own selfish reasonings. Let us rather take our stand with those blessed who "do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city."

