
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The effort should be made in this lesson to impress upon the young people how this final chapter of the Bible brings out the three principal doctrines of the New Church: belief in Jesus Christ as the one God, belief in the inspiration of the Word, and belief in obedience to the commandments as essential to heavenly life.

---
We may think of the verses we have for today as the Lord's final charge to mankind. Although the Second Coming of the Lord did not take place until nearly seventeen hundred years after the time this book was written, it is foretold here, and the way in which the world would receive it is also foretold.

Our lesson contains statements which should encourage us as well as solemn warnings which we should heed. The Lord had said to His disciples: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you." Each one of us who has been brought up in the New Church or led into it has been chosen by the Lord. This does not mean that we are better than other people, but that the particular abilities with which we are endowed can be made useful to the Lord in the development of His New Church. Each of us has his own work to do for the church, and if we study its teachings and constantly look to the Lord in His Word for guidance, we shall be given wisdom and strength to carry out this work. It is perfectly possible for us to refuse to accept this responsibility. The choice is presented in Revelation 22:11. The Lord knew that many would not receive Him in His Second Coming. He does not force His truth upon those who do not want it and neither can we. Swedenborg tells us plainly that the New Church will grow slowly, that for a long time it will be with only a few.

This suggests one of the temptations to which New Churchmen are subject. We may become discouraged because our church is so small. And this discouragement brings with it another temptation, against which we are warned in Revelation 22:18-19. We are tempted to set up for ourselves objectives — such as large numbers, external activities, publicity, the praise of men — which have nothing to do with the spiritual church the Lord is trying to develop. This is a form of idol worship and may lead us to modify and interpret the teachings which the Lord has given us in the effort to make them more acceptable to our idols. When we do this, we are no longer New Churchmen at heart: we no longer worship the Lord Jesus Christ as our only God or look to His Word as divine truth or seek to obey His commandments. We worship self and the world instead.

In Revelation 22:13 the Lord says again, "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last." Our course takes us through the Word from beginning to end. In the beginning we have the ideal set before us: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth," the heavenly and the earthly natures in man, and developed them to the Garden of Eden state. A great river watered the Garden of Eden and the tree of life was at its center. But man chose to turn away from the Lord to self, departing further and further from the heavenly state, and the Lord's truth followed him down to lower and lower levels, until finally "the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us" to turn back the tide of evil which threatened to destroy mankind. Then the slow, upward climb began and continued until in John's vision of the holy city New Jerusalem "coming down from God out of heaven" we again find the "pure river of water of life" and the tree of life.

In these last verses of Revelation we are left in no doubt as to who it is that we are to worship and obey. The angel guide whom John felt he should worship, told John at once that he was but another man, and in Revelation 22:16 we find that it is Jesus who sent the angel, and from there on the name of Jesus alone is used, so that at the end we have the response of all those who are of the church:

"Even so, come, Lord Jesus" and the final benediction so familiar to us all: "The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen."

