
=== Adult

The effort has been made in the notes for the Adults to outline the construction and furnishings of the tabernacle and merely to suggest their meaning. The teacher will use his judgment as to the points which his particular group will be most interested in discussing.

The commandments were given to the children of Israel from Mount Sinai as the essential basis of their life, and they are equally for us the only foundations for a good and happy life. We recall that after the giving of the manna the Bible story tells of the Israelites' thirsting and being given water out of a rock at Rephidim. It tells of the attack of their first enemy, the Amalekites, which they met successfully because Moses, with the help of Aaron and Hur, kept his hands uplifted to the Lord. It tells, too, of the visit of Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, under whose advice Moses appointed various leading men to handle the lesser complaints and problems of the people. They reached Sinai after about three months' journey and camped there, and all the people heard the giving of the commandments. These commandments were not new. They had been known and recognized as essential from the beginning of the church on earth. They appear in the laws of pagan as well as of Jewish and Christian peoples, having come to them through traditions handed down from the Ancient Church. They were given again from Sinai with so many signs and wonders to impress upon us that they are the laws of God and not man-made laws. In our lesson today we find that they are to be given a permanent place at the very center of our life. Other things besides the commandments were also given to Moses by the Lord at Sinai: many laws and rites, and especially the plans for the tabernacle and its furnishings and for the worship to be carried on in it. The Israelites remained about eleven months at Sinai, and during this time they were to serve the world for all time as a picture of a life organized according to true order, with worship of the Lord at its center and reaching to every activity of the daily life. The tabernacle was the center and symbol of their national life. It was the center of their encampment and was carried in the center of their line of march, and in both cases every tribe had its appointed station with reference to it. And we recall that from the time when it was first set up, the pillar of cloud and fire rested upon the tabernacle.

All the details of the tabernacle cannot be taken up in any one lesson, or even kept in mind: but all, to the very least, have a meaning which may become clear and helpful to us at some point in our lives. We are all familiar with Paul's statement: "Know ye not that ye are the temple of God?" As the tabernacle and its ceremonies were the center of the whole life of Israel, so the worship of the Lord — our religion — should be the center of our whole life, reaching out into every least thing we do. The plan of the tabernacle is the plan according to which our lives should be built. We see the outward act, but within that is the thought which taught us how to perform it, and within the thought is the desire that inspired the thought. We may take a simple example from a familiar sport such as tennis. First there must be the desire to play tennis, then knowledge of the game and of how to go about playing it, then the practice. We sometimes think of practice as the all-important thing, that if we play often we shall inevitably come to play well. But this is not true. Much practice may confirm bad playing habits as readily as good ones. making it impossible for one to be a really good player. Furthermore, even given accurate knowledge of technique and much practice, if the impelling motive is not sound, failure may result. If we go into the game from a desire to make ourselves conspicuous, or if our desire to win is stronger than our love of fair play and willingness to recognize excellence in our opponent, we may easily spoil our game by playing to the gallery or by losing our temper. This is true in everything we do. Right action can come only from true thought, and true thought can come only from pure motive. This brings us back to the tabernacle.

The Most Holy Place stands for our inmost heart. Only the commandments of the Lord should be found there. Our inmost desire in all things should be to obey and serve the Lord. His laws should be "written upon our hearts." If they are, He will speak to us from the mercy seat of our conscience, from between the cherubim which represent the protecting power of the Lord. Here all should be gold — pure love — except that the foundations must be truths learned and obeyed, as the sockets or bases of the tabernacle wall throughout were of silver. Only occasionally did the high priest enter the Most Holy Place. In the same way, we are seldom able to penetrate our inner motives, but we are permitted to do so occasionally when we need to hear the voice of the Lord in a special way.

The Holy Place was not public either, though the priests entered morning and evening to burn incense and to tend the light. Here, too, the analogy holds true: our thoughts of the Lord are not open for everyone to see, yet they must never be neglected. In our minds there must always be an "altar of incense" (an attitude of prayer and humility), a "candlestick" (recognition that all our light comes from the Lord), and a "table of shewbread " (acknowledgment of the Lord as the giver of all good). Gold is the metal here, too: our thoughts must be loving thoughts.

The people could see all that went on in the outer court. Our external lives are open to view. The metal here is brass or bronze — natural good — but the curtains which form the wall are fastened together with silver — particular truths which make our outward life a consistent whole. Here, too, the priests minister continually with washings and sacrifices. The necessity of the laver is easily seen: the need for constant cleansing of the outward acts according to truth. The great altar stands for the principle that we are to do good not because it pays, nor with the idea of self-exaltation, but from love to the Lord and a desire to advance His kingdom. We usually think of sacrifice as meaning "giving up" something. It often does involve giving up things which seem desirable to us, but this is incidental. The real meaning of sacrifice is "to make sacred." All that we do in our external lives should be made sacred by being offered to the Lord through the acknowledgment that whatever good we may seem to do is really done by Him through us, and is not in any sense our own.

Thus the tabernacle becomes for us a picture of what our lives should be: the commandments of the Lord in our hearts, working out through our thoughts into our daily lives, cleansing and setting everything in order so that we shall be in very truth temples of the living God. The tabernacle in its highest sense is a picture of the Lord's perfect divine human life. It is this life which is the real "pattern shown in the mount," and without this pattern we cannot form our lives wisely.

