
=== Notes for Parents

When they left Egypt under the leadership of Moses and the pillar of cloud and fire, the Israelites were just an unorganized horde of people bent on escaping from a bondage which had become unbearable. After three months in the wilderness they came to the great mountain called Sinai, which stands up abruptly out of the plain. There the pillar of cloud and fire stopped and they camped in the plain, and there they stayed for nearly a year.

During that time the Lord formed them into a nation by giving them an extensive code of laws to govern everything they did. The difference between this code and the codes which govern nations today was that religion was its center. The first thing given to them was the ten commandments. These commandments were not new. Most of them are found in codes of laws which existed before the time of Moses. And that is just what we should expect, for they are not man-made laws but the laws which are the very foundation of human society, laws given to mankind by God from the very beginning. It was to establish this very fact that they were again spoken by the living voice of the Lord Himself to the children of Israel from amidst the fire and smoke on the top of Mount Sinai.

Afterward the Lord gave Moses the plan on which the tabernacle was to be built and all the directions for its furnishings and for the worship that was to be carried on in it. The tabernacle was to be erected in the center of their encampment and carried at the center of their line of march. The tabernacle, like our churches today, was the "house of God," His dwelling place among men. It was to be the center of their life, just as worship of God should be the center of our lives, reaching out into and directing everything we do. Did you ever stop to think that if we do not look to the Lord for guidance in our daily lives, we are really setting ourselves up in place of God?

The tabernacle in the center of the camp of Israel is a picture of the Lord's unselfish love and His truth at the center of our life. The older children are studying the meaning of the three divisions of the tabernacle and of some of the other details of its construction and furnishing. Such a study will help them to see how they can build their own characters into a house of the Lord. Recall what the Apostle Paul wrote to the Corinthians (1 Cor. 3:16):

"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?"

