
=== LECTURE II - The True Nature Of The Scriptures Considered

----
 Design with which the Scriptures were given, and the Nature of their Composition, stated for proof. 
  I. That the title "the Word of God", and the Plenary Inspiration which that title implies, are claimed by the Scriptures; and that this is recognized by many critics. 
  II. Proofs, from rational and philosophical grounds, that a Composition which is really "the Word of God", must contain stores of wisdom in its bosom, independently of any thing that appears on the surface.
  III. That the Composition received as the Word of God, continually assures us that it is inwardly replenished with such wisdom: 
  -1. This intimated by the writers of the Old Testament;
  -2. Expressly declared by the Lord Jesus Christ;
  -3. And by his Apostles;
  -4. Generally believed by the Christian Church, for many ages, from the Apostles downwards, and still recognized by the best Interpreters.
  IV. But this great truth having been abused, that endeavours have been made, during the last two or three Centuries, to restrict the meaning of the Scriptures to their literal sense alone.
 Admitted, that all Points of Faith are to be established by the literal sense: But that the objection against a further sense would fall to the ground, could it be shewn, that the Scriptures are written throughout according to an immutable Law or Rule, a knowledge of which would, in explaining them, substitute certainty for conjecture, and cut off the sources of vague interpretation.
----

In our opening Lecture we took a brief view of the present state of public opinion, on the subject of the divine inspiration of the
Word of God, or Holy Scriptures; and we have seen that, while absolute infidelity is at present more prevalent throughout Christendom than at any former period since the establishment of the Christian religion; while the attacks upon the credibility of the Christian revelation were never so unremitted and daring; the cause has been half betrayed by many of its advocates, in the lax notions which they inculcate respecting the nature of Scriptural inspiration. We also drew a faint picture of what must be the character of a composition which has God for its Author; we stated the four leading classes of objections by which infidels deny this character to belong to the writings called the Holy Scriptures; and we advanced it as a fact, to be afterwards proved, that all difficulties would disappear, were the true nature of the Holy Scriptures distinctly understood, and the design for which they were given fully discerned. What this design was, we now proceed to state.

When well-meaning men have been induced to make the admission, that the sacred writers might not, on all occasions, be inspired, it has been in consequence of not considering, any more than the opposers to whose railings they have so far yielded, what was the sole design for which the divinely inspired volume was composed.
Things, for example, that appear like contradictions,
have in some places been pointed out; and though most of these admit of being satisfactorily answered even in the literal sense,
yet, because some of them, if we confine our attention to the literal sense alone, are attended with real difficulty, many, even of the sincere friends of Christianity, have admitted, that the Scriptures may, in some instances, have proceeded from fallible authors, -- from penmen who were not at all times inspired! This admission they have made, to open a door for retreat, in case any of the statements made in the letter should be proved by an adversary to be indefensible.
But surely had it been consisdered, that whatever proceeds immediately from God, in the nature of a communication of his will, must be spiritual and divine, and that the sole design of it, in every part, must be, to improve man in the wisdom of salvation; it would have been seen, that merely historical circumstances, however important to the actors in them, can never be of such moment in the eyes of an Infinite Being, as that the communication of even the most correct knowledge respecting them can be a thing to have place in his express Word of revealed Wisdom,unless things of a far higher consequence be at the same time referred to and represented by them.
Hence, when we find such things spoken of in a book which its Divine Author assures us was given from Him, and which bears so many marks, both internal and external, that evince the truth of this assurance; we ought to be satisfied, that things of far higher, even of eternal moment, are shadowed forth, and represented to us, under these historical relations; -- as we shall see presently is also expressly declared by the Lord and his Apostles.
In short, we ought to conclude, (as we shall find both reason and Scripture assure us must be the case with every composition that has God for its Author,) that in the Sacred Scriptures there is an internal or spiritual sense, distinct from the letter, but contained within it, and no otherwise capable of being conveyed to human beings in this world of nature; which spiritual sense must treat, not of natural things, but of spiritual; not of things relating to the body of man and his transitory life,
but to his soul and life eternal: And we ought to conclude further, that although the historical circumstances detailed in the literal sense are in general substantially true, having occurred as they are related, yet if there are any of them that are in any respect contradictory, the reason must be, not because the narrative is divinely inspired, but because, the letter has been forced, in such instances, to bend a little, as it were, under the weight of the important matters contained within it, to express which more fully, a not slight turn has been given to the literal narration.
Nor is there, in this supposition, the smallest degree of inconsistency.
For every composition, either human or divine, must be judged of, according as it is adapted to express the Design of the Author.
But a revelation from God cannot be designed to improve us in natural knowledge, but in heavenly or spiritual.
If then the literal sense of the Holy Word is so adjusted, as to be a proper vehicle for the divine realities of a spiritual kind with which it is inwardly replenished, then it answers the Design for which it was given, whether the literal expression, regarded by itself, be in all respects perfectly coherent or not; -- whether the historical occurrences, respecting which, regarded by themselves, it is no part of the Divine Author's plan to communicate information, are detailed with all possible clearness or not.
In short, if the Design for which a revelation 
from God must be given, had been steadily kept in view, and the outward expression had been judged of accordingly, it would have been seen that the Word of God does, in every part, contain a spiritual sense, which treats solely of the Lord, his kingdom, man's soul, and his improvement in heavenly graces; and that the literal sense is constructed purely in subserviency to the spiritual: and then the objections against its divine inspiration would never have been raised, or, if they had, would soon have obtained a completely satisfactory answer.
To evince that this is its true character, will be the main object of this and our subsequent Lectures.

I. The first thing necessary to the clearing up of this argument,
is, to ascertain, what is the kind of inspiration which the Scriptures claim for themselves.
Here then the fact, that the title, "the Word of God", is claimed by the Scriptures for themselves, is alone sufficient to satisfy us, that they assume to have been written by a plenary divine inspiration. 
For what can "the Word of God" be, but divine inspiration.
divine speech or revelation flowing from God? And if this is given us by the instrumentality of men, then must they, so to give it us, have been divinely inspired: -- otherwise what they wrote would not be the Word of God, but the word of men, -- of illumithan they themselves conceived and apprehended -- the mere sentinated men, perhaps, but whose writings could convey nothing more ments of the writers.

1. That the books of Moses claim to be _the Word of God_, is expressed by its being so repeatedly said, that "the Lord spake unto Moses, saying", and also, that "Moses wrote all the words of the Lord" (Exod. xxiv. 4.). And whoever has looked into the writings of the prophets, knows how often they make the declaration, "The word of the Lord came unto me, saying."

2. But that the title "Word of God" is properly applied to the Sacred Scriptures, is evinced by the use of the expression by the Lord Jesus Christ himself. Speaking of the law written by Moses, he first observes, "For _Moses_ said, Honour thy father and mother and, Whoso curseth father or mother, let him die the death"; and then he adds, "But ye say, If a man shall say to his father or his mother, It is Corban, that is to say, a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me, he shall be free; and ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother; making _the Word of God_ of none effect through your tradition." ( Mark vii. 10 to 13.)
Thus we see that the Scriptures of the Old Testament, which we may be sure do not rank higher than those of the New, are denominated, by the highest authority, "the Word of God"; of course they must have been given by a plenary divine inspiration.

The same expression is used again, and the idea conveyed by it affirmed of all that is properly called "the Scripture", in another debate of the Lord Jesus Christ with the Jews. When they were about to stone him for having said, "I and the Father are One", he reasoned with them thus: "Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? If he called them gods to whom "the Word of God" came, -- _and the Scripture cannot be broken_, -- say ye of him" (John x. 34, 35.) etc.
Here, not only is the revelation communicated to the Jews called by its real Author, "the Word of God", but it is authoritatively declared, that "the Scripture cannot be broken;" where the word
"broken" is admitted by the Commentators to be idiomatic, the meaning being, that the Scripture is not to be contradicted or denied, -- that its authority is not to be infringed.
The purport of the clause, then, paraphrased into familiar language, is clearly this: "If he called them gods to whom the Word of God came -- _and this you cannot deny, because the authority of the Scriptures is unimpeachable_, -- say ye of him", etc. Thus then the revelation given to the Jews is recognized by "the Word made flesh", as _the Word of God_; and the attributes of that Word are assigned to what is emphatically called _the Scripture_, which is declared, on this ground, to be, what no partially inspired composition can be, absolutely infallible, -- an authority which, on no pretence whatever, is to be impugned. The same sanction, conveyed by the same expression, is given by Jesus Christ to "the law and the prophets", or to the whole of the ancient Scriptures, when he says, after referring to them, "Whosoever therefore shall break one of the least of these commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven." (Matt. v. 19.).
Here, to break one of the least of the commandments of the law and the prophets, does not mean merely to live in the neglect of it, but to weaken its authority: the word in the original is the same as in the passage just quoted from John, and means literally to loosen, or dissolve, that is, to take away its obligation. The unlawfulness of this, we find, in regard to the least of the commandments of all the law and the prophets, Jesus Christ most decidedly affirms: what then are we to think of those who tell us, that "it is not to be supposed that they [Moses and the prophets] were even thus inspired [even according to the lowest notions of inspiration] in every fact which they related, or in every precept which they delivered".
Did not Bishop Tomline (Bishop of Winchester, see p 6. --  H.) see, when he penned these awful words, that he was herein "loosing", or destroying the authority of, at any rate, some of "the least of the commandments", and was thus setting his authority in opposition to the authority of Jesus Christ, who so solemnly recognizes the whole as to the immovable Word of God.

3. But perhaps it may be objected, that the title, "Word of
God", is nevertheless only applicable to such parts of the Scriptures as contain precepts expressly delivered in the name of God.
We do not, however, find that Jesus Christ makes any such distinction; so that we have divine authority for denying that any such distinction exists. Besides, what a door for uncertainty would this throw open!
If the writers who recorded those precepts which they deliver in the name of God, were not inspired throughout, they might as easily err in this part of their duty as in any other; and thus it would be impossible for us to know whether what they delivered as divine precepts were really such or not. 
However, we are not left to decide this question by our own reasonings; for, in addition to the unlimiting declarations of Jesus Christ, the Apostle Paul gives us the strongest assurance we can possibly require, as to the entire inspiration of the whole. He says, "All Scripture is given by inspiration of God" (2 Tim. iii. 16.). 
And it is here to be noted, that the five words, "given by inspiration of God", have but one word ``[θεοπνευστος]`` (inspiration) answering to them in the original; and that is one so expressive, that it conveys all that our translators have stated, with that addition of force which results from condensation.
A single word might be framed in English to convey the same meaning, but it would sound harsh, as being unusual: We however might say, "All scripture is God-breathed", which indeed is just the same in sense as "given by inspiration of God", only the word "inspiration", being derived from a Latin, and not an English root, does not convey to English ears the primary meaning that belongs to it, which is that of _breathing-in_. 
Nothing then can be more conclusive than this passage for the full inspiration of the whole of the Word of God. All Scripture was inspired, or _breathed-into the writers_, by God, -- was the result of a divine _afflatus_, which took such entire possession of the inspired penmen, that it was not they who wrote, further than as to the mere motion of the fingers, but God himself who wrote with their hands.
This is what is included in the idea of "Inspiration of God;" and to restrict it to any thing short of this, is to charge the Apostle with having spoken at random, without understanding the meaning of his language.

Paul however does not stand alone in this testimony. He is supported in it by Peter, who affirms the same doctrine, though in quite different terms. "Prophecy", says he, "came not in old  time by the will of man, but holy men of God _spake as tliey were moved by the Holy Ghost_" (2 Ep. i. 21.).
It is here to be remembered, that the Jews called the writers of the historical books "prophets", as well as those of what we call the prophetical books; as is known to every one who has seen a Hebrew bible. Now of all these holy men, the Apostle affirms, that they spake, not by the will of man, but as they were moved by the Holy Ghost: 
clearly excluding their own will, and of course their own understanding, from any concern in the matter. 
And here also it will be useful to attend to the force of the principal original word.
The Greek term ``[φερομενοι]`` translated "moved", is one that conveys a much stronger idea than that of the gentle sort of impression to which we apply the term "moved". It means _carried away, -- rapt, -- transported_; -- taken altogether out of themselves, and possessed entirely by the power of God.
So positive is the language of the heaven-taught writers on the subject of divine inspiration; and so decisive is the testimony which they bear to the plenary inspiration of the Sacred Scriptures.

Such being the strength and unequivocal nature of the expressions in which the inspiration of the Sacred Scriptures is affirmed by infallible authority, it really seems extraordinary how they who undertake to explain the divine books, should ever have thought of limiting their inspiration to so low a degree of it, as is unworthy of the name altogether, 
and it can only be accounted for by the reason before assigned:  that being pressed by the Deist with the difficulties which some passages present, and not reflecting that these should lead to a higher mode of interpretation, the Christian advocates have seen no way of maintaining the general credibility of the sacred penmen, but by allowing their liability to little mistakes.
It would however be but a sorry expedient for the preservation of a country situated like Holland, when threatened with an inundation from the fury of the ocean, should they who have the care of the dykes, fearing lest these should be washed away, purposely make a gap in them, as a means of averting the destructive effects of the waves.
Here, every one sees, that the country, though in a more gradual manner, would equally be drowned; but the dykes, though no longer of any use, might possibly be preserved.

By admitting only such an inspiration as does not exclude fallibility, religious establishments may perhaps for a time be preserved; but the objects for which they were instituted will be undermined and subverted.
Infidelity will be confirmed and extended; and the Faith that remains, being emptied of its spirituality, will differ from infidelity in little but in name.
Religion will degenerate into a cold morality, which Deism may supply almost as well.

4. Such laxity, however, did not characterize the sentiments of former times. Though now it is otherwise, the general belief once 
was, that inspiration really is inspiration; and they who wrote upon it, did not attempt to define the thing, to be something entirely different from what is expressed by the name.
This might be proved by copious evidence, if necessary; but it will be quite sufficient here to give the statements of Bishop Marsh (Bishop of Peterborough, author of a Systematic Theology. -- H.), in the Notes to the third Chapter of his translation of Michaelis; 
for though he had such low ideas of the nature of inspiration, at least as far as regards the inspiration of the Evangelists, when he formed his singular theory of the origin of the three first gospels, he seems,
when he translated the first part of the Work just mentioned, which was several years previously, to have been inclined to favour the higher views of the subject; 
at least, he had, and has, too much integrity to keep them out of sight. 
He there, complaining of his Author for not himself giving a 
definition of Inspiration, says, that
____
"some understand an inspiration of words, as well as ideas, others of ideas alone; a third class understand by inspiration an intervention of the Deity, by which the natural faculties of the sacred writers were directed to the discovery of truth; and a fourth class assume a kind of negative intervention, by which they were prevented from falling into material error; some again assume a total inspiration, declaring that the supernatural influence of the Deity was extended to the most minute historical accounts, while others suppose that it was confined to certain parts of Scripture."
____

And, as the authorities for the opinion, that inspiration extends both to words and ideas, he gives "most of the German divines of the last [or seventeenth] century, and many in the present" [the eighteenth --  for this was written in 1793.]
The Author whom he translates, -- Michaelis,  --  seems very unsettled in his own mind, both respecting what he should determine inspiration to be, and what books in the Bible he should regard as possessing it. 

It appears, however, that where it exists at all, he thought it must be plenary, applying to this subject a passage of Paul, which in our translation stands thus: "We speak not in words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing natural things with spiritual" (1 Cor. iv. 13.) which declaration he renders thus: "We deliver doctrines in words taught by the Holy Ghost, explaining inspired things with inspired words."

I do not quote this version by Michaelis as adopting it, or as accepting his application, in the context, of the doctrine he appears to mean to deduce from it; but only as evidence of what this great scholar's opinion of inspiration really was.
Hereupon Bishop Marsh justly remarks, "It seems then, that he understands a verbal inspiration, agreeably to the sentiments of many ancient Fathers, and many modern divines, who have considered the Apostles and Evangelists merely as passive instruments. It is true", the Bishop adds, (and we shall consider 
the sentiment in the sequel,) "that this hypothesis renders it difficult to account for the great variety of style observable in the Greek Testament; on the other hand, several writers, especially Ernesti, contend, that it is difficult to abstract an inspiration of ideas from an inspiration of words."

Assuredly, it is difficult. And this avowal from the celebrated Ernesti, will perhaps be felt as the more valuable, when it is remembered, that he was by no means uninfected, on some points, with the lax principles of the moderns; so that his testimony in favour of plenary inspiration, must be considered as drawn from him by the unassisted force of truth.
I will only add further upon this question, that what the sentiments of profoundly learned British divines formerly were respecting it, is sufficiently indicated in the maxim adopted by Pococke, and prefixed as a motto to the _Notes Miscellanea_, appended to his _Porta Mosis_ of Maimonides: it is this: 
"There is not in the Law or Holy Scripture a single letter, on which matters of the greatest importance [in the Hebrew, 'great mountains'] are not dependent."
These testimonies, I trust, will be sufficient to shew, that many writers, and those of the highest authority, have heretofore believed, that when Jesus Christ terms the Scripture the Word of God, and declares that it must not be broken, or its authority impeached;
and when the Apostles assure us that it is given by inspiration of God, and that those who wrote it were carried out of themselves by the Divine Spirit that possessed them, they really mean what they say: -- those, therefore, who may now be disposed to believe that they mean what they say, will find a cloud of witnesses to support them.
It is true, that, at present, the fashion of the times 
runs the other way; but it is not a new thing for heaven and the world to stand in opposition: and, on this point, the authorities are sufficiently great and numerous to render the profession of the truth honourable in the eyes of men, as well as in the sight of God.

This question, respecting the nature of the inspiration which the
Scriptures claim for themselves, though of the greatest moment to the Christian, will be little regarded by the Deist: it was, however, necessary to consider it, because we shall find it pregnant with consequences, in which the Deist also is deeply interested.

II. It being then certain, that the Scriptures claim to be "the
Word of God", according to the full meaning of that weighty expression; and it being likewise true that many of the greatest
Biblical scholars deemed the claim thus made by the Scriptures too positive to be evaded, so that we must as much believe them,
when they assert their own plenary inspiration, as when they assert any thing else. 
We beg to be allowed to assume, for the present, for argument's sake, that they really are the Word of God; and with this admission, we proceed to offer proofs, from rational and philosophical grounds, that, if so, they must contain stores of wisdom in their bosom, independently of any thing that appears on their surface.

If the Bible could, throughout, be understood, and would, in every part, afford a clear, intelligible, and instructive meaning, by consulting the literal or grammatical sense of the words and phrases alone; or if by thus restricting our researches after its meaning, we could always obtain as clear a one as is to be drawn from the works of uninspired writers; there would then be more reason (but by no means sufficient) for contending, that it never was meant to contain any thing more: 
but when we find in it passages, to which, unless we allow them an internal sense, we must deny any intelligible sense at all; -- we surely must reject the notion, that the literal sense is all that is intended, -- a notion so derogatory to the divine inspiration of the Sacred Writings, and which, if suffered to regulate our views of them entirely, would compel us to think less highly of the Word of God, than we do of many of the compositions of men.

However, I do not mean to beg the question, but to shew that the possession of stores of hidden wisdom, is not only necessary to vindicate for the Scriptures their title of the Word of God, but is an inseparable characteristic of every Divine Composition; that without it, no writing whatever, were its outward form just what the sceptic would require, (would he define what that is,) can be entitled to that appellation.

Who then does not see, that the difference between Compositions that are really the Word of God and the compositions of men, must be as great as between the works of God and the works of men?
And wherein does the latter difference most remarkably consist?
Is it not in the interior organization which the works of God possess, beyond what appears in their outward form? 
When we look at a picture or a statue, which are among the most exquisite productions of human ingenuity, after we have seen the surface, we have seen the whole; and although there are pieces of curious mechanism which contain a complication of parts within their outside case, this only carries us one step farther. When we look at any of the parts, we see the whole; -- the interior texture of the material of which they are composed not being the work of the human artist, but of the Divine Creator.
Whereas, when we look at any of the works of his omnipotent hand, beautiful and exact as they are in their outward form, still the most beautiful and wonderful parts of them are within. 
Some of these hidden wonders are discoverable to the diligent inquirer by means of dissections and by the aid of glasses; but when the most ingenious investigator has extended his researches into the interior construction of any natural production to the utmost limits that human means can conduct him, he must, if he is a wise man, be convinced, that what he has thus discovered, is, after all, but general and superficial, compared with the greater wonders which still lie concealed within.
The most expert anatomist never, for instance, reached the seat of the soul, -- still less the principle of consciousness and life, of which the soul itself is merely the organ; all which, and even the material forms which are their first envelopes, still lie beyond the most subtile forms that the gross observation of the senses can discover.
The farther, however, the observation of the senses can extend, the greater are the wonders which appear.
Just so it is with the Word of God; and so it must be, if it has in reality God for its Author.

An attention to one or two more unquestionable truths, will make this fact more evident; and will discover to us with the utmost certainty, what must be the character of a composition that is rightly named "the Word of God".

God, we know, is a Being Infinite and Eternal. He made the world, and all things in it; gifting, in particular, every living object with faculties suited to its nature, or to the use it is designed to perform in the grand whole.
But although every thing in nature plainly bespeaks its Divine Author, he has not, in any part of nature, a visible existence.
His immediate, personal residence, is far above the sphere of this world, or of the universe, of nature, -- yea, above that of the worlds of spirit, the abodes of angelic beings; "for behold, even the heavens, and the heaven of heavens, cannot contain Him"  -- much less this gross, material world, the lowest sphere of his divine activities.

Now man, while he is an inhabitant of this natural world, enjoys the gift of speech; and there can be no doubt that he will retain this valuable endowment when he departs hence, to move in a higher sphere of existence.
Indeed, there can no doubt that this faculty must be enjoyed, in some mode or other, by all orders of intelligent creatures, from man on earth to the angels of the highest heavens, and even up to the Creator himself, from whom finite intelligences receive it.
But as the personal forms of angelic beings are not visible to the corporeal eye of man in the world, so neither is their oral language audible to his bodily ear. Hence the Apostle
Paul informs the Corinthians, that when he was caught up, as to his spirit, to the third heaven, he heard there "unspeakable words, such as it is not possible" (according to the marginal reading of our bibles, which is allowed to give the true meaning which the original word bears in this place; -- such as it is not possible) "for man to utter."
There cannot be a plainer testimony to the difference between spiritual and natural speech or language.
While the Apostle was in heaven and in company with the angels there, and was thus, for the time, in a state similar to theirs; he heard and understood their discourse, and possibly took a share in it; but when he returned into his natural state, as an inhabitant of the natural world, though no doubt he retained some of the general instruction which was communicated in the angelic discourse, as to the ideas, he found he could recollect nothing of the words in which it was conveyed to him, but only the conviction, that, by natural organs, they were altogether ineffable.

If then the words of angels are such as are unspeakable to man;
what must the words of God be, as they proceed immediately from  himself?
Doubtless, they must be far above either the hearing or the comprehension of any finite being; and they must be immensely, indeed, beyond the hearing or the comprehension of the inhabitants of the natural world. 
Before they could become apprehensible to them, they must pass through the spheres inhabited by the higher orders of intelligent creatures, who would hear them in their own spiritual language.
For the Divine Being to speak, immediately from his own mouth, in natural language, must be as impossible, as it is for him to appear, in all the glory of his Divine Person, before the natural eye.
Consequently, if the Word of God, as we have it, in natural language, is really his Word, its literal sense must be a covering, with which it is invested to adapt it to the apprehension of the inhabitants of the natural world; and the essentially divine speech must lie concealed far within. 
And as between the immediate personal residence of Deity and outward nature, must be arranged the abodes of all intermediate intelligences; so between the immediate divine speech of the Lord and the natural expressions into which it falls when it descends into the domains of nature, must be distinct forms of Divine Truth, adapted to the apprehension of all orders of angelic beings.

But to resume the analogy between the Word of God and his
works. From all that has been advanced it may be seen, that to suppose the literal sense of the Word of God, (upon the assumption that it is rightly so named), to be all that it contains, 
because nothing more is obvious to a superficial inspection, is just as reasonable as to affirm, that the human body consists of nothing but skin, because this is all that meets the unassisted eye. But as the researches of anatomists have assured us, that within the skin which covers our frame there are innumerable forms of use and beauty, each of which consists again of innumerable vessels and fibres; 
whilst, after science has carried her discoveries to the 
utmost, the principle that imparts life to the whole still eludes the search. 
So the letter of the Holy Word, which may be regarded as _its _skin, includes within it innumerable spiritual truths, adapted in some measure to the apprehension of spiritually-minded men,
but more completely to the intellects of purely spiritual beings;
whilst the Essential Divine Wisdom which gives life to the whole,
is beyond the comprehension of the highest finite intelligence, and can only be known to its Infinite Original. 
And such must be the character of the _whole_ of the Word of God, -- as well of those passages which afford a clear, instructive sense in the letter, as of those which do not. 
For the Word of God, to be truly so, must be like itself throughout, and must every where be composed upon one uniform principle.
Every mind that reflects deeply upon the subject, will, I am persuaded, see, that to deny the Holy Word to possess such contents as we have described, is equivalent to denying it to have God for its author.
It makes it nothing more than the work of men; -- of men pious, perhaps, and enlightened, but still finite and fallible.

Such then are the views to which even reason, fairly consulted,
would lead us, when we inquire, what must be the nature of a composition, which is, really and truly, the Word of God. We must now then proceed to inquire, how far these agree with the views which are presented by the Writings which take that title, on the subject of their own nature.

III. We continually find the Holy Word itself, in its very letter,
directing the reader to elevate his mind above the merely literal expression, -- above the natural ideas and images which compose its outward language, -- and to explore the deep and truly divine wisdom that is contained within; thus the very letter repeatedly assures us, that the Word of God contains stores of wisdom in its bosom, independently of any thing that appears on the surface.
This testimony it bears to itself in all its parts, -- in the books of the Old Testament, in the discourses of the Lord Jesus Christ, and in the writings of the Apostles.

Many plain intimations are afforded by the writers of the Old
Testament; but I will just notice one or two in the Psalms alone.

1. What can be meant by that passage in which the Psalmist prays, "Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law"? (Ps. cxix. 18.)
Is not this a plain declaration, that the Law or Word of God does contain within it wonderful things, which cannot be discerned unless the eyes of the mind, or the intellectual faculties, be opened to discern them? -- thus, things which do not appear immediately on the surface, but lie stored up within? 
And that these wonderful things, or divine mysteries, are not only contained in those parts which give outward indications of it, by the obscurity and evidently mystical character of the language in which they are expressed, but in those parts likewise where the letter is perfectly plain and simple, is openly declared in the 78th Psalm, which begins with these words: 
"Give ear, my people, to my law, incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a _parable_, I will utter _dark sayings of old_." 
Now nothing can appear more extraordinary, to those who think of nothing further, when they read the Scriptures, than what appears upon the face of them, than to find such a declaration as this prefixed to such a composition as follows. When the writer has declared in so solemn a manner, that he is about to open his mouth in a parable, to utter dark sayings of old, the reader is naturally led to expect, in the continuation of the Psalm, a series of mysterious language, containing an enigma in every word. 
But what does follow? Nothing, whatever, but a very plain abridgment of the history of the Israelites, from their departure out of Egypt to the reign of David, couched in language that is not even elevated by poetical figures, but appears to be the natural style of sober matter of fact.

Can there then be a plainer declaration than this, that the whole of the Israelitish history has a parabolic meaning, -- that the language in which this history is given, plain and simple as it appears, is in reality a series of dark sayings?

Every sentence of a composition written in the style of this Psalm, which, making allowance for the metrical arrangement, is similar to that of the historical parts of Scripture in general, is, in fact, more dark, in proportion as it outwardly appears more plain. The hidden spiritual meaning is, in reality, rendered more recondite, by the plainuess of the literal historical meaning, the simplicity of which tends to chain the attention to the narrative of facts, and to prevent it from looking for any thing beyond.
Let any person read this Psalm, one of the plainest, in its literal sense, in the whole book, and remember at the same time that the inspired writer is throughout speaking parables, -- uttering dark sayings; and he must confess that every literal expression here contains a hidden meaning; and, of course, that it is at least highly probable, that the case is the same throughout the Holy Word.

We find then from this testimony of David, that such is the character of the law of Moses, and of the historical narratives of the Old Testament; -- it will therefore be more easily admitted, that such must be the character of the prophetical books also. We proceed then to consider the evidence of the New Testament on the subject; and we will begin with that of the Lord Jesus Christ.

2. Were we to adduce all the testimony which is afforded in the discourses of the Lord Jesus Christ to the spiritual nature of the
Scriptures, we should find ample matter for a Lecture by itself wherefore we must confine ourselves to a few instances.

One very strong testimony, but the force of which might be overlooked by a reader who does not consider the purport of the chief expressions, is given by Him when he says, "Think not that
I am come to destroy the law and the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil". (Matt. v. 17.)
Some have found it difficult to reconcile this declaration with the fact, that the greater part of the Mosaic law actually was abolished by the establishment of Christianity, the observance of it not being enjoined on Christians, and the power of observing it being taken away even from the Jews, by the destruction of their city and temple, where alone the chief of the ceremonies could be performed.
It is indeed said, and with truth, that the whole of the ceremonial law was fulfilled by Jesus Christ in his own person: but this does not account for the abolition of it afterwards; otherwise we must suppose the moral law, which he fulfilled likewise, to be abolished also; and this has never been asserted by any but the wildest Antinomian perverters of Divine Truth.
It is besides evident, that he is not here speaking of what was done in his own person, bat of what would be the effect of his doctrine, or of the illumination of the human mind which he came to impart. When therefore Jesus Christ declares, that he came to fulfil the law and the prophets, he means that he came to prevent them from being any longer regarded merely as to their surface or shell; to bring to light the divine things with which they are inwardly filled; and to establish a church which should be in the exercise of that spiritual worship, of which the carnal worship of the ceremonial law was a figure or type.
The word "fulfil", being now no longer used except in its secondary senses, which are, "to answer a prophecy or promise by performance", -- "to answer a desire by compliance", -- "to answer a law by obedience"; -- the English reader of the New Testament is apt to forget its primitive meaning, which is, to fill full, --  "to fill till there is no room for more"; 
-- which also is the primitive and proper meaning of the
Greek word `[πληξοω]` for which it is used to fulfil the law, is then to _fill it full_; -- and this is to discover the substance of which the ceremonies were shadows, and the inward principles from which the outward acts, even of the moral law, must be performed.

The Divine Speaker immediately proceeds to illustrate his meaning by examples.
After referring to the Mosaic prohibitions of murder and adultery, he proceeds to forbid all uncharitable sentiments and unclean thoughts; and after referring to the Mosaic law of retaliation, he inculcates the most unbounded forbearance and forgiveness;
by which he instructs us, that those precepts of the ancient law convey much more than the letter expresses; that under the prohibition of murder, every degree of hostile feeling is interdicted; that the prohibition of adultery extends to every species of uncleanness; and that the law of retaliation is a representative appointment only, exhibiting an immutable arrangement of the Divine Order in the government of the universe, which is such, that no evil can be practised or intended, without falling eventually upon the contriver;

but that this law is reserved, as to its execution, to the Unerring Judge alone; and is not meant to be that by which man is to regulate his conduct towards his trespassing brother.

These then are examples by which Jesus Christ shews, how, in the dispensation which he came to institute, the law was to be fulfilled; in "the newness of the spirit, not in the oldness of the letter" (Rom . vii . 6.); by introducing into the outward observance of the moral code the inward spirit and life; and by substituting for the ceremonial observances those vital graces of which they were the types.

It was thus that the righteousness of the disciples of Jesus Christ was to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, who thought of nothing further than an outward obedience.
//mhr
There are however other instances, in which Jesus Christ still more plainly refers to the divine wisdom included within the veil of the letter of the Holy Word. 
What a remarkable statement is that, where it is said, after his resurrection, when he discovered himself to his disciples, "Then opened he their understandings, that they might understand the Scriptures"! (Luke xxiv. 45.)
Is it not plain from this, that the Scriptures contain a hidden meaning, not explicitly discovered in the letter, which cannot be understood unless the understanding be opened to perceive it? 
Thus this statement is a counterpart of the prayer of the Psalmist before adverted to "Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law"; and both together illustrate that saying of Jesus Christ, "Verily I say unto you, that many prophets and righteous men have desired to see the things which ye see, and have not seen them, and to hear the things which ye hear, and have not heard them" (Matt. xiii. 17.); words which imply, that even the sincere lovers of truth, who lived under the Jewish dispensation, in which divine things were either enigmatically expressed in the Sacred Writings, or darkly shadowed out in the symbolic rites, could not have that clear understanding and perception of heavenly mysteries, which were brought to light by the coming of the Lord, and by that new illumination of the understanding which he then afforded.

This plain distinction between the outward language in which divine Truth is conveyed, and the divine wisdom which is included within it, is what is intended by the Lord Jesus Christ, in that otherwise unintelligible question and answer, which he proposes and gives, respecting the obstinacy and blindness of the Jews. He says to them, "Why do ye not understand my speech?" -- and he answers the question by adding, "Even because ye cannot hear my word" (John viii. 43.).

Here he makes a plain distinction between his speech and his word.

To a superficial reader the two expressions may appear synonymous; but to suppose that they are so, is not only to impute the most insipid tautology to the Divine Speaker, but the most palpable no-meaning; for the whole sense of the declaration is concentrated in the difference which is pointed to between his
"speech" and his "word". 
Understand by his "speech" the outward expression and literal sense of his divine communications; and by his "word", the pure truth which is concealed within; and the sense of the declaration at once appears, and is found to be most weighty and important; nor can any other interpretation render it worthy of the Author.
Here then we are clearly taught this most momentous truth: that unless the hidden wisdom of the Lord's divine communications be acknowledged and attended to, the outward expression of them will never be understood.

We will quote only one more testimony from the immediate lips of the Lord Jesus Christ. In the sixth chapter of John he holds a long discourse with the cavilling Jews, couched entirely in those dark sayings which so generally constitute the letter of the Holy Word. He tells them, that He is the living bread which came down from heaven, of which if a man eat he shall live for ever; to which he adds, "And the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world." (John 6 Ver. 51.)

This puzzled the Jews extremely, and they "strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat?"
Jesus, however, enforced his assertion, and "said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you"; which affirmation he dwelt upon at some length. (Ver. 52 to 58.)

This confounded even many of his disciples, and they said, "This is a hard saying: who can hear it?" (Ver. 60.), meaning, Who can understand and receive such a paradox as this?
But it is added, "When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, He said, Doth this offend you? What and if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before?"
And he subjoins, as a key to the mystery, "It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing; the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life." (Ver. 61-63.) 

How is it possible to state more decidedly, that it is the spiritual meaning of divine language which is to be looked for, and that we are not to abide in the gross, carnal interpretation? And how plainly are we hereby instructed, that the difficulties which stagger and offend many, when they look at the mere outward covering, or "flesh" of the Divine Word, would disappear, could they raise their ideas to a perception of its "spirit" and its "life"!

It is clear enough then, from these declarations, what is the
nature of the words of Jesus Christ; and also what is the nature of the whole Word of God, if it really is the "Word of God", _God-breathed_ -- "given by inspiration of God"; viz. that it every where contains much more than meets the eye or ear. We are now to see how far the Apostles bear a similar testimony.

3. Not then to dwell upon that passage of Paul, in which he says, that "the letter killeth, the spirit giveth life" (2 Cor. iii. 6.); although this might be shewn to be strong to our purpose; we will advert to a few of the numerous instances in which this Apostle directs the attention of his readers to the spiritual signification of the Scriptures of the Old Testament -- those of the New being not then written; or such of them as were written not generally known.

Speaking of the pilgrimage of the children of Israel in the wilderness, the Apostle states, that "they did all eat of the same _spiritual_ meat, and did all drink of the same _spiritual_ drink: for they drank of the _spiritual_ rock that followed them; and that rock was Christ." (1 Cor. x. 34.)
Here we are evidently taught, that something more was conveyed by the manna which was given them from heaven, and the water that was produced for them from the rock, than merely natural food and drink for the support of the body; as also, that the rock itself, out of which the water was obtained, was representative of the Rock of Ages: for that the rock in Horeb was not literally Christ, is sufficiently evident; yet the Apostle says,
"and that rock was Christ" he must mean then, that it was a representation, figure, emblem, or type of Christ, who alone, 
as being "The Truth" (John xiv. 6.), and "The Word" (John i. 1.), "can refresh the fainting soul with streams of "living water" (John 4:10; 7:38), which is an emblem of pure Truth, communicated by the Word, from Himself!

The same Apostle gives a spiritual meaning of so apparently plain a history as that of Abraham, his wife and concubine, and their sons, Isaac and Ishmael. "It is written", he observes, "that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bond-maid, the other by a free woman; but he who was of the bond-woman was born after the flesh; but he of the free woman by promise. Which things", he continues, "are an allegory"; and he accordingly explains them, as being emblematical of the Israelitish and Christian dispensations. (Galatians iv. 22, to end.)

Now if this plain narrative contains an allegorical or inward meaning besides its literal or outward sense, what reason can be given for doubting, that the whole of the historical relations of the Divine Word do the same?
If Isaac, from his birth, was a type of the Christian Dispensation in general, may we not conclude, that the nation descending from him represented, in their history, all the particulars of the same? or, what is substantially the same thing, all the spiritual things belonging to the Lord's true Church under every dispensation?
This, we have already seen, is taught us by David; and we shall see in the sequel, that there is abundantly more scriptural evidence of the same great truth.

But we have not yet done with the testimony of Paul, who inculcates this fact more explicitly still, because more generally, when he says, "He is not a Jew which is one outwardly; neither is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh: but he is a Jew which is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter." (Rom. ii. 28, 29)
In these words we are clearly instructed, that when the Jews are mentioned in Scripture, we are to understand, not merely the descendants of the man named Judah, or the inhabitants of the country called Judaea, but the member of the Lord's true church, under whatever dispensation, and that the initiatory rite of Judaism was representative of the purification of the heart and its affections; as is also plainly declared by Moses himself, (Deut. x. 16; xxx. 6.)

Of the nature of the Mosaic writings, the Apostle gives us several more examples in the Epistle to the Hebrews.
"With what force of argument does he demonstrate, that Melchizedeck was a type of the Lord Jesus Christ"! (Chs v. and vii.)

So, how positively does he assert the typical nature of all the ceremonial institutions!
Thus, speaking of the priests, and of the gifts which they offered according to the law, he says, that thay "serve unto the example" [`υποδειγμα` -- properly, according to Schleusner, _that which presents something visible to the sight_] "and shadow of heavenly things" which interpretation he confirms by adding, "as Moses was admonished of God, when he was about to make the tabernacle; for, See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern ``[τυπος]`` shewed to thee in the mount. (Heb. viii. 5.)

 Footnote: 
 It is necessary to remark, that the words `τυπος` in this passage, and `aurvrxmos` in that to be noticed immediately, have meanings exactly the reverse of those which the "words type and antitype have acquired in English. With the Apostle, the type is the pattern, and the antitype is that which, as a copy, answers to the type: but with us, the type is the copy, and the antitype is the original, or pattern, of the type. This seems to have originated in inaccurate writers confounding the Greek particle anti with the Latin particle ante. To bear the popular meaning, the word should be spelled 'antetype': though then it is an incongruous compound from two languages. The ambiguity introduced by the translators in the use of the word pattern, should also be noticed. In the passage above, they use it in the sense to which it is now fixed, -- as the original from which a copy is made: but in the next quotation they use it in the sense, not of a pattern, but of a copy taken from a pattern. It must further be noticed, that the word `avrirvTros`, in the passage quoted below from Peter, does not mean an antitype in either of the senses here explained, but something that answers to another thing of the same order as itself; not as a copy to a pattern, or as a pattern to a copy, but as two similar things, of the same kind or degree, that exactly match each other.

Soon after, taking up more particularly the subject of the tabernacle constructed by Moses, he affirms, that it "was a figure for the time then present" (Heb. ix. 9.) and he presently calls the rituals of the tabernacle worship "the patterns `[υποδειγματα]` of things in the heavens", and speaks of them in contrast with "the heavenly things themselves"(Heb. ix. 23.), immediately adding, that "the holy places made with hands, are the figures `[αντιτυπα]` of the true."(Ver. 24.)

Agreeably to this view of the Mosaic rituals, he speaks of "the law" as "having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things"(Ch. x. 1.) where by "the image", as has been judiciously remarked, he means, what is respectively a substance; -- a solid statue being a substance respectively to its own shadow.

We find then that the testimony of the Apostle Paul is very copious and conclusive. He affirms the representative character of the persons mentioned in the Old Testament; of all the particulars attending the celebration of the Mosaic worship; of the history of the Israelites in general; and, in fact, of every thing connected with that people and church; and he repeatedly calls our attention from the mere "letter" of Scripture, to the "spirit" that resides within.

The epistolary writings of the other Apostles, and the remains of their discourses, being small in extent, and almost entirely occupied with practical exhortations, are less explicit on this subject. Peter, however, plainly discovers, in two or three instances, what his sentiments respecting it were.

Thus, in his first sermon, he not only applies to the gift of the spirit, which they had just received, the following part of a prophecy of Joel, -- "It shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams; and on my servants and on my hand-maidens I will pour out in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy"; -- but he cites the remainder of Joel's predictions also, as then receiving its accomplishment; -- "And I will shew wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath, blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke: the sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great and notable day of the Lord come."(Acts ii. 16 to 21.)

Now although the words first quoted may be considered as bearing,
in their literal sense, a relation to the effusion of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, it is only in a sense quite different from that of the letter, that the other part of the prediction was then fulfilled.

The same Apostle assures us, that there is a symbolic meaning in the history of Noah. Having mentioned the ark, "wherein a few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water", he adds, "the like figure `[αντιτύπον]` whereunto, even baptism, doth also now save us, (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience towards God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ"!(1 Pet. iii 20, 21. See Note above, p. 46.)

Here we are expressly told, that the waters of Noah were as truly a figure of something spiritual, as are the waters of baptism, these being the _fellow-type_ to the other; their import is also briefly stated.

But not only does Peter mention particular instances in which a spiritual sense is contained within the letter of the Scriptures, but he also declares that this is the case universally, when he says, "We have also a more sure word of prophecy, whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light shining in a dark place, until the day dawn and the day-star arise, in your hearts". -- If he had concluded here, he would have clearly described the fact, as it exists.

The prophetic writings are called _a light shining in a dark place_; how beautifully does this describe the difference between their literal expression and the divine wisdom within it ! -- the light denoting the pure truth of their inward meaning, and the dark place in which it shines the obscurity of the letter, which is such, that, to discover the light, devout contemplation is necessary, until it shines as the day-star in our own minds also.

But to make the fact more certain, and to encourage us to the study of the Scriptures under this view of them, the apostle adds,
"Knowing this first; that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private interpretation."(2 Pet. L 19, 20.)

Now the Scriptures would be of "private interpretation", if their meaning were confined to the natural occurrences to which they usually refer in their letter, -- if nothing more were intended beyond the persons and things there commonly mentioned.
I am not unapprized of the other modes in which this statement has been explained; but I am fully satisfied that this is the only one which comes up to the apostle's meaning.

If regard is to be had to the context, both that which precedes and that which follows, as well as to the proper force of the words, the meaning surely must be that which is quoted by Dr. Doddridge from Dr. Clarke and Mr. Baxter, who understood the passage as if the Apostle had said, "Scripture is not to be interpreted merely as speaking of the particular person of whom it literally speaks, but as having a further sense, to which the expressions of the prophets were overruled under the influence of the Spirit", etc.
Evidently, if the meaning of the Scriptures is not to be regarded as appropriated merely to the persons and things of which they treat in their lettter, -- if they thus are not of private but of universal interpretation; then they must contain an interior sense, a hidden wisdom, adapted to the edification of every Christian in every age of the world.

The evidence, then, to the nature of the Scriptures of the Old
Testament, is already very complete: but had all the other writers of the New Testament been silent on the subject, we still should have had sufficient information to guide our judgment, in the book that closes the canon of Scripture. In this book -- the Revelation of John, -- how full is the testimony which we find to the hidden wisdom contained in all the affairs and writings relating to the Jewish dispensation!
It would, however, engage us too long, were we to examine it in detail; suffice it then to say, that much of the imagery of this book is taken from the state of things which existed under the Mosaic law.

Though written, according to the best computations, upwards of twenty years after the destruction of the city and temple of Jerusalem, it contains repeated mention of both 
(Ch. iii. 12; xxi. 2; xi. 1, 19; xv. 5, 8; xvi. 1, 17.); -- as also of 
the ark (Ch. xi. 19.), -- of 
the altars of incense (Ch. via. 3.) and of 
burnt offerings (Ch. xi. 1.), -- of the twelve 
tribes of Israel (Ch. vii. 4 to 8.), notwithstanding ten of them had long before been entirely dispersed and mixed with other nations; beside many of the 
persons (Ch. ii. 14, 20; iii 7; v. 5; xi. 3, 4; (see Zech. iv.l 1 to 14.)
and places (Ch. xi. 8; chs. xvii. and xviii; xxi. 2, &c.) 
treated of in the sacred history of the Jews; all which furnish the writer with a copious store of imagery that is evidently purely symbolic. How plain then is the inference, that these things belonging to the circumstances of the Jewish dispensation, and which are here incontrovertibly used as mere symbols, bearing a spiritual meaning, were equally symbols, and equally bore a spiritual meaning, when they really existed in, or in the vicinity of, the land of Canaan, and when they are spoken of in the letter of the other books of Scripture. (See this argument farther deduced in the Appendix, No. I.)

Thus it is perfectly clear, that every thing relating to the Jews as a people, typified something belonging, either to the true Jews spoken of by Paul, who are such _inwardly in the spirit and not outwardly in the letter_, or else to those mentioned in the Revelation, "who say they are Jews and are not" (Revelation ii. 9; iii. 9.); in other words, either to the true or to the merely professing members of the Church universal. 
And as the whole of the Sacred Scriptures, in the literal sense, refers to such things, it follows, that the whole of the Sacred
Scriptures contains an inward meaning distinct from that of the letter, -- that they are replete with stores of wisdom in their bosom, independently of what appears upon the surface. And it follows further, that in forming a judgment of their pretensions to inspiration, we are to be guided by their inward contents, and not solely by their outward form and appearance. To allude again to the image used by the Lord Jesus Christ, we are not to be offended at the "flesh" because we have not discernment to discover "the spirit."
//mhr progress
4. It having thus been so plainly taught by the Lord and his apostles, that the Scriptures are, in their inward bosom, spirit and life, it will be expected that the primitive Christian Church, which derived its ideas of the nature of the Scriptures from the teaching of the apostles, must universally have allowed them to possess this character: and, accordingly, ecclesiastical history, and the writings of those times which are still extant, shew that such was the case.
Indeed, no truth in history is more certain than this;
that for at least fourteen or fifteen hundred years, few who received the all, ever thought of denying that they contained
Scriptures at mysteries in their bosom which do not appear upon the surface.
It is true that some where dissatisfied, and even disgusted, with the interpretations which had been given by others, and rather sought to ascertain the true literal sense than to explore what might lie beyond: but few ever thought of affirming, that nothing beyond
The accounts which are contained the letter was included in them.
in that well-known work, Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History, abundantly prove this: and as it is not our intention here to inquire what the interpretations were, which, in consequence of their admission of a hidden sense, where given of Scripture by ancient

Christian writers, but only to establish the fact, that they believed it to contain such a sense; the statements of this author will be sufficient for our purpose.

(1.) Mosheim was himself one of the modern writers who lay it down as a "golden rule", that the Scripture contains but one sense,
which is that of the letter; on which his translator, Dr. Maclaine*,
found it necessary to remark, that "this golden rule will often be found defective and false f", unless many exceptions be made to it:
Mosheim, however, was strongly attached to it; and hence the opprobrious language which he uses in regard to all who maintain the opposite opinion, must be received with many grains of allowSuch being his sentiments, he evidently is much annoyed at being obliged to record, that the belief of a hidden sense was universal ill the primitive ages: he, however, does record it, though he depreciates the writings of those who adopt the principle. Thus,
speaking of the mode of interpreting Scripture in the first century,

ance.

* An Irish Divine, and minister at the Hague. He made a translation of

Mosheim's Institute, in 1764. -- H.

t Cent, xvi Sec. 3, Pt. 2, Ch. 1, § 16, Note (a).



lie says, "It must be acknowledged, that even in this century,
several Christians adopted that absurd and corrupt custom, used among the Jews, of darkening the plain words of the Holy Scriptures by insipid and forced allegories, and of drawing them violently from their proper and natural signification, in order to extort from them certain hidden and mysterious significations.
For a proof of this we need go no farther than the Epistle of Barnabas,
It is well he did not say "the epistles of which is yet extant."*
Paul; "for we have seen that Paul quite as decidedly favoured the practice of drawing from the plain words of Scripture, not, indeed,

insipid and forced allegories, but weighty and just ones; and it must be remembered, that Barnabas was an apostolical man, the friend of Paul and the other Apostles, and sometimes called an
Apostle himself f: although then Barnabas might err in his application of the general principle, -- that there is a hidden sense in the
Scriptures, -- we hardly can suppose that he was mistaken in the principle itself.

The intimate friend of the Apostles must have known, whether this principle was acknowledged by them, or not 4

When he comes to the second century, speaking of the veneration with which the Holy Scriptures were then regarded, Dr. Mosheim says, that many employed their "useful labours in explaining and
As the chief of these expositors he mentions interpreting them."
Pantsenus, the head of the Alexandrian school of divinity; Clement of Alexandria, whom he had before described as "the most illustrious writer of this century, and the most justly renowned for his various erudition, and his perfect acquaintance with the ancient sages", and whose works, "yet extant, abundantly shew the extent of his learning, and the force of his genius;" Justin, "a man of eminent piety and considerable learning, who from a pagan philosopher became a Christian martyr;" and Theophilus§, Bishop of

* Cent. 1, Pt. 1, Ch. 3, § 2.

f Acts adv. 14.

X Mosheim indeed, with some others, does not allow the author of the epistle of Barnabas, to have been the Barnabas who was the companion of Paul; but tipon no other grounds, than because he does not consider the epistle to be worthy of such a man. He allows it, however, to be a production of the first century; and none of the early Christians seem to have denied its being genuine.

§ He is reckoned among the Fathers of the Church. He was the first Christian writer who used the word Trinity, -- H.
Antioch, whose works are "remarkable for their erudition", though not for "their order and method:" and of these distinguished lights of the church he says, that "they all attributed a double sense to the words of Scripture, the one obvious and literal, the other hidden and mysterious, which lay concealed, as it were, undei the veil of the outward letter."*

Proceeding to the third century, and commemorating the pains then taken by some to multiply correct copies of the Scriptures, he mentions the celebrated Origen in these words: "But Origen surpassed all others in diligence and assiduity; and his famous
Hexaplaf, though almost destroyed by the waste of time, will remain an eternal monument of the incredible application with which that great man laboured to remove the obstacles which retarded the progress of the gospel." % He had previously § given
Speaking of the the character of Origen in stronger terms still.
principal writers of the third century, he says, "The most eminent of these, whether we consider the extent of his fame, or the multiplicity of his labours, was Origen, a presbyter and catechist of Alexandria; a man of vast and uncommon abilities, and the greatest luminary of the Christian world that this age exhibited to view. Had the justness of his judgment been equal to the immensity of his genius, the fervour of his piety, his indefatigable patience,
his extensive erudition, and his other eminent and superior talents,
all encomiums must have fallen short of his merit.
Yet such as he was, his virtues and his labours deserve the admiration of all ages and his name will be transmitted with honour through the annals of time, as long as learning and genius shall be esteemed among
Higher eulogy could not easily be penned: and the reserve men."
that is made on the score of his judgment, may fairly be ascribed to the prejudice of the writer against any but the literal interpretation of Scripture. No literary pursuit requires a more accurate judgment than sacred criticism: and Origen is universally allowed to have been one of the most laborious and judicious critics that ever lived. He was in no respect inferior to the Wetsteins |J and

* Cent. 2, Pt. 2, Ch. 3, § 4, 5; and Ch. 2, § 5.
f A work in which he exhibited, at one view, six copies or versions of the

Scriptures, after the manner of the modern Polyglotts.

% Cent. 3, Pt. 2, Ch. 3, § 4.

§ Ibid. Cb, 2, § 7.

U John James Wetstein, celebrated for his labours on the New Testament.


Griesbachs* of our days, in that species of erudition and industry to which they devoted all their attention. He displayed the utmost diligence and acumen in fixing the text, and ascertaining the literal sense, of Scripture: but he did not, like many who have followed him, in modern times, in this walk of biblical literature, because he excelled in it, extol it as the whole, or the highest.
This great man, then, strenuously maintained that the chief wisdom in the
" He alleged", to quote again
Scriptures lies beyond the letter.
from Mosheim, "that the words of Scripture, were, in many places,
absolutely void of sense; and that though, in others, there were indeed certain notions contained under the outward terms according to their literal force and import, yet it was not in these that the true meaning of the sacred writers was fo be sought, but in a mysterious and hidden sense arising from the nature of the things
Mosheim adds, "A prodigious number of interpreters, both in this and the succeeding ages, followed the method of
Origen, though with some variation; nor could the few who explained the sacred writings with judgment, and a true spirit of themselves."!

criticism", [so our author is pleased to give his opinion; though we have seen that Origen himself was one of the greatest of critics,]
" oppose, with any success, the torrent of allegory that was overVery strong testimony, this, as to the flowing the church."|
state of opinion in those ages on the nature of the Scriptures. And it must be kept in mind, that this is all that we are concerned with.
I undertake not to vindicate the interpretations themselves, but only the general principle which all such interpretations assume;
that there is in the Scriptures more than meets the eye.

But if I would not vindicate the interpretations of these early times, farther than as regards their general principle, still less would I defend, in any other respect, the expositors of the following
It will not however be without its interest and its use, if ages.
we take, from our author, a rapid sketch of the state of Scripture

" His ' Prolegomena' to a new edition of the Greek Testament, was published in 1730, and in 1751 the text itself was given to the world with every variation that he had discovered, and his critical remarks." -- Ency. Biog. -- H.

* John James, the eminent German critic, so distinguished for his attainments in theological, biblical, and ecclesiastical literature, particularly for his edition of the Greek gospels, with a critical history of the printed text, and examinations of various readings. -- Ency. Biog. -- H.

t Cent. 3, Pt. 2, Ch. 3, § 5.

% Ibid. § 6.
interpretation, through the succeeding ages, to the period of the

Reformation from Popery.

As after the third century many deviations from the pure Christian doctrine and worship became general, it cannot be deemed surprising if the interpreters of Scripture should be found to have fallen into serious errors, and grievously to have misapplied the great general truth, that the Scriptures contain a sense beyond that of the letter. We find, however, that all the eminent names in the church continued to adhere to this truth, with very few exceptions,
The most learned of the fathers of the down to the age of Luther.
fourth century, were Eusebius and Jerome; and these Mosheim puts in his list of allegorical interpreters: he claims Augustine as adhering to the letter; but he cannot mean that this father denied there to be any thing beyond the letter; since his writings contain many beautiful spiritual interpretations.
In the fiflJi century he only gives the names of one or two who confined themselves to the
In the sixth literal sense, as exceptions to the general practice.
century the number of interpreters is described as considerable
Among the Greeks, our author states, the principal were Procopius i>f Gaza, Severus of Antioch, and Julian; and among the Latins,
Gregory the Great, Cassiodorus, Primasius, Isidore of Seville, and
Bellator. The commentators of this age, he affirms, may be divided into two classes: the first of whom merely collected the interpretations of the ancient doctors of the church, (who, we have already seen, proceeded in their writings upon the admission of a spiritual sense,) which collections afterwards acquired the technical name of chains; and the other class followed their own ideas, setting up
The seventh century produced but
Origen as their great model.
few expositors: The Grecian doctors all followed the allegorical mode: but "the Latins", says Mosheim, in his usual sarcastic style,
" were so diffident of their abilities, that they did not dare to enter these allegorical labyrinths, [under their own guidance, he means,]
but contented themselves with what flowers they could pluck out of the rich collections of Gregory and Augustine."

In the eighth century, both the Greeks and Latins confined themselves almost entirely to the task of compilation: but those who framed any thing of their own, as Alcuin, Authpert, and the venerable Bede,
all men of the greatest abilities, always sought for the "hidden and mystical meaning, which they usually divided into allegorical, ana-


gogical, and topological."

The same description applies to the writers of the ninth century, with the partial exception of two,
Druthmar, and Bertharius; Mosheim continues to divide the rest into compilers and original authors; and he thus describes the form which the system of Scripture-interpretation had now assumed: "The fundamental principle, in which all the writers of this class [those who were not mere compilers] agree, is, that, beside the literal signification of each passage in Scripture, there are hidden and deep senses which escape the vulgar eye; but they are not
Some agreed about the number of these mysterious significations.
attribute to every phrase three senses; others four; others again five; nay, their number is carried to seven, by Angelome, a monk of Lisieux, an acute though fantastic writer, and who is far from deserving the meanest rank among the expositors of this century."
The tenth century was an age of great darkness, which produced few expositors of Scripture; and these were chiefly mere compilers.
There were more writers in the eleventh century, and of the same
In the twelfth century the number of interpreters is two classes.
described as great, but, unless Eupert of Divytz is to be considered as an exception, the same character is given of them as before.
" The Christian interpreters and commentators of the thirteenth century, differ very little", says Mosheim, "from those of the preThe greatest part of them pretended to draw from ceding times.
the depths of truth, what they called the internal juice and marrow of the Scriptures, i.e., their hidden- and mysterious sense:" he adds, (and, I doubt not, correctly; for I repeat, though I conceive their general principle to be right, I readily concede that their application of it was wrong,) "and this they did with so little dexterity, so little plausibility and invention, that most of their explications must appear insipid and nauseous to such as are not
This I quote, because entirely destitute of judgment and taste."
he mentions as examples, beside Anthony of Padua, our Archbishop
Langton, and Hugo de St. Cher, or Cardinal Hugh de St. Caro whence we see, as in former instances, that although the biblical expositions of those days might be unsound, they often proceeded from the most solid judgments of the age, and from men who deThe common reader of the Bible is inserved well of posterity.
debted for the facility of finding and remembering its various contents, to Archbishop Langton, who first divided it into chapters,
and who moreover is called by Moslieim's translator, "a learned and polite author, for the age in which he lived:" and the more diligent student owes the help he derives from a Concordance, to
Cardinal Hugo, who compiled the first that ever was made, and whose work has been the model of all the Concordances which have followed, whether in Hebrew or Greek, in Latin or English: he>
likewise, had so much of the sober-minded critic in his character^
that he compiled a Very learned collection of the various readings of the Hebrew, Greek, and Latin manuscripts of the Bible.
In the fourteenth century, except Nicholas de Lyra, all the commentators followed the methods already explained: and of those of the fifteenth century the same character is givem
This brings us to the era of the reformation; when the desire of receding as far as possible from the Eoman Catholics, who continued to adhere to the old system, joined to disgust at the manner in which the doctrine of a spiritual sense had been abused, by being applied to confirm the errors of the Eoman Catholic church, induced some of the Eeformers to reject it; though it has continued to have many eminent advocates among them to the present day.
If it could be shewn that the doctrine itself was a corrupt invention of the
Eomish church, there would be reason for rejecting it: but when it can be proved to have been the belief of the primitive ages, and this because it is taught in the Scriptures themselves, we ought to take the pains to separate the errors that have been attached to it from the truth itself, and not reject both together.
As, during many ages, every thing connected with religion suffered the most grievous perversion, it is not to be wondered at that the same fate attended the spiritual interpretation of the Scriptures: but to deny the truth of the principle on this account, is just as reasonable as it would be to deny the truth of the declaration -- "All power is given to me in heaven and in earth*," -- -made by the Lord Jesus
Christ, because to this doctrine has been attached the monstrous appendage, that the Pope is his Vicar.

I will conclude this statement of the sentiments of the primitive and middle ages on the subject of Scripture-interpretation, in the words of two eminent luminaries of the Anglican Church.
Archbishop Wake, one of the most learned and pious prelates that ever sate in the English Metropolitan Chair, in the introduction to his

* Matt, xxviii. 18.



translation of M the Genuine Epistles of the Apostolical Fathers",
has some remarks in defence of the spiritual expositions of Scripture, and of Barnabas in particular. He says*, "I need not say how general a way this was of interpreting Scripture in the time
To omit Origen, who has been noted as that St. Barnabas lived.
excessive in it, and for whom, yet, the learned Huetius has lately made a reasonable apology; who has ever shewn a more diffusive knowledge than Clemens Alexandrinus has done in all his composures? and yet in his works we find the very same method taken of interpreting the Holy Scriptures, and that without any reproach either to his learning or judgment. What author has been more generally applauded for his admirable piety than that other Clement,
[Clemens Eomanus, a disciple and "fellow labourerf" of Paul,]
whose epistle to the Corinthians I have here inserted? and yet in that plain piece we meet with more than one instance of the same kind of interpretation; which was nevertheless admired by the best
So Bishop Home, in the Preface and most primitive Christians."
to his Commentary on the Psalms, speaking of the testimony of the ancients, has these words: "They are unexceptionable witnesses to us of this matter of fact: that such a spiritual method of interpreting the Scriptures, did universally prevail in the church from the beginning."

So far then as authority is to be consulted in the decision of such a -question, the weight of evidence for the spiritual sense of
What regard is to be had to the the Scriptures is irresistible.
doubts of a few moderns, when opposed to the unanimous decision of all antiquity, -- to the unvarying acknowledgment of so many

Although, through part of its course, the doctrine of spiriages?
tual interpretation may have been rendered less clear by the foulness of the channel through which it flowed; and although it has,
in modem times, been made less distinguishable by a mixture of other waters; it unquestionably had its rise in the virgin days of

Christianity: Unless then it is to be contended, that the farther from the fountain, the purer the stream, it must be admitted, that the doctrine of spiritual interpretation is the pure doctrine of the

Christian church.

(2.) The Keformation from Popery introduced in the Christian church a great variety of opinions; and it would be a very extensive

» Ch. vii. § 25.

f Phil task to trace, through the numerous sects which have thus sprung up, the fluctuations of sentiment in regard to the principles of
Scripture-interpretation. And the task would be nearly as unprofitable as it would be tedious: since the opinions of the moderns can have no other weight, than that which they derive from their evident reasonableness and agreement with Scripture: as authority,

I shall confine myself therefore to a few English they have none.
testimonies; only observing, once for all, of the modern writers in general, that while the ancients generally believed the spiritual sense to extend throughout the Scriptures, few of the moderns allow it this complete universality; on the other hand, while many of these deny its existence generally, few of them refuse to admit it in
This qualification then must be applied to particular instances.
the testimonies I shall adduce from them in favour of a spiritual sense; but we shall see in the sequel, that, if we make the admission at all, we must, with the ancients, make it universal.

As the most recent of modern testimonies of importance, I select that of the Eev. T. H. Home, with an older author or two cited by him: we shall also have occasion to refer to other authorities in
In his laborious "Introduction to the our subsequent Lectures.
Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holy Scriptures", -- a work which has rapidly passed through three `[1825]` editions, and has been received with the general applause of biblical students, Mr. Home expresses himself thus: "The spiritual interpretation of Scripture has been as much depreciated by some commentators and biblical critics as it has been exaggerated and carried to the extreme by others: but if the argument against a thing from the possibility of its being abused be inadmissible in questions of a secular nature, it is equally inadmissible in the exposition of the Sacred Writings.
All our ideas are admitted through the medium of the senses; and consequently refer, in the first place, to external objects: but no sooner are we convinced that we possess an immaterial soul or spirit, than we find occasion for other terms, or, for want of these,
another application of the same terms to a different class of objects: and hence arises the necessity of resorting to figurative and
Now, the object of revelation being to spiritual interpretation.
make known things which * eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man to conceive/ it seems hardly possible that the human mind should be capable of apprehending


them, but through the medium of figurative language or mystical
In this passage, as it appears to me, the quesrepresentations."*
tion is placed upon exactly the right ground; and a clue is at the same time given to the discovery of the law or rule according to which the Scriptures are written, and by which their spiritual sense is to be decyphered.
ceived, in the first instance, by the instrumentality of the senses

It is perfectly true that our ideas are re-

these, however, can bring us acquainted with none but external and sensible objects; the images of which, thus obtained, become,

nevertheless, the basis of all our future thoughts, and, in numberless instances, are transferred from their primary notions, and used as the signs of totally different things.

It has been objected by

Infidels, that as all our ideas have a reference to the objects of outward nature, and we cannot think even of immaterial things without the help of images thence compounded, this is a proof that nothing but nature has a real existence, and that all beyond i9

purely the creature of the imagination: but this is a most gratuitous assumption: the true statement of the case would be, that there is between material and immaterial objects such a sort of regular analogy, that the former present the most appropriate signs for the expression of the latter. We shall see in the sequel, that it is by this immutable principle that the Word of God is written.
Mr. Home has established this truth by a beautiful quotation from
Dr. John Clarke, who states it thus

" The foundation of religion and virtue being laid in the mind and heart, the secret dispositions and genuine acts of which are invisible, and known only to a man's self; therefore the powers and operations of the mind can only be expressed in figurative terms
The motives, also, and inducements to and external symbols.
practice, are spiritual, such as affect man in a way of moral influence, and not of natural efficiency; the principal of which are drawn from the consideration of a future state; and, consequently,
these, likewise, must be represented by allegories and similitudes,
taken from things most known and familiar here. And thus we find in Scripture the state of religion illustrated by all the beautiful images we can conceive. -- In the interpretation of places, in which any of those images are contained, the principal regard is to be had to the figurative or spiritual, and not to the literal sense of the
* Vol. 2, Pt. 2, Ch. 1, § 5.
words. -- Of this nature are all the rites and ceremonies prescribed to the Jews, with relation to the external form of religious worship;
every one of which was intended to shew the obligation, or recommend the practice) of some moral duty, and was esteemed of no farther use than as it produced that effect. And the same may be applied to the rewards and punishments peculiar to the Christian disThe rewards are set forth pensation, which regard a future state.
by those things in which the generality of men take their greatest delight; -- and the punishments are such as are inflicted by human laws upon the worst of malefactors: but they can neither of them be understood in the strictly literal sense, but only by way of analogy, and corresponding in the general nature and intention of the thing, though very different in kind."*

" But", adds Mr. Home* "independently of the able argument a priori^ here cited, in favour of the mediate, mystical, or spiritual interpretation of the Scriptures, unless such interpretation- be ad-

mitted" [in conjunction, he means, with the truth of the literal sense,] "we cannot", [in the conclusive words of the late Bishop of Calcuttaf,] "avoid one of two great difficulties: for either we must assert, that the multitude of applications made by Christ and his apostles, are fanciful and unauthorized, and wholly inadequate to prove the points for which they are quoted; or, on the other hand, we must believe, that the obvious and natural sense of such
The passages was never intended, and that it is a mere illusion.
Christian will object to the former of these positions; the PhilosojjJier and the Critic will not readily assent to the latter." %
This powerful writer says again, in a passage not quoted by Home, that,
without such a twofold explanation, "it will be impossible to place any of the citations in the New Testament, except, indeed, direct and avowed prophecies, on any better footing than that of being accidentally apposite to the occasion. A quotation from the Psalms,
by St. Paul, will not, in its application, possess any advantage over a quotation from Horace by Addison." §

Here then I am contented to rest my case, in regard to the ques-

* Folio Collection of Boyle's Lectures, vol. iii. p. 229.

f Dr. Thomas Fanshawe Middleton, the first English Bishop of Calcutta.

His principal work is "The Doctrine of the Greek Article." -- H.

% Doct. of Greek Article, p. 580.

§ Ibid. p. 588.



tion, of the propriety of claiming for the Scriptures a spiritual sense,
upon the supposition that they are rightly designated "the Word
If philosophy, and the immutable nature of things, are of God."
to be consulted, "the Word of God" must contain such a sense
If the testimony which the Scriptures bear to themwithin it.
If "the selves is to be regarded, they do contain such a sense.
multitude of applications" made of texts "by Christ and his Apostles" was not "fanciful and unauthorized", the double sense of
If the concurrent acknowScripture is irrefragably established.
ledgment of all who lived in the best days of Christianity is of any authority, we are constrained to admit this sense.
If the preservation of this acknowledgment through so many centuries, even through the ages of the greatest darkness, when the sentiments arising from it, together with all the doctrines of the Christian religion, suffered gross perversion; -- if this, nevertheless, is an index
 -- then is the doctrine that the Scriptures do contain such a sense,

that points to the source whence the acknowledgment was derived a fundamental doctriue of the true Christian religion.

And, finally,

if the force of truth has pointed out this conclusion to the most intelligent of the moderns; if these, after throwing off the trammels of authority, and recurring to the original sources, are constrained to confess, that the spiritual sense of the Scriptures cnnnot be denied, without denying their truth altogether: assuredly we ought to embrace the doctrine, as we would embrace the palladium of the
Christian faith. We shall find in the end, that, when rightly apprehended, it will prove a palladium indeed, by its power of preserving the Christian faith from the assaults of its opponents.

IV. But, as has already been observed, though the testimony to the fact, that the Word of God contains stores of wisdom in its bosom, independently of what appears on the surface, is so ample,
objections, during two or three centuries past, have been made to
The belief in the spiriit, and its credit has gradually diminished.

tual sense of Scripture, has run parallel with that of its plenary in-

Indeed, they are spiration: as this lias declined, so has the other.
inseparably connected: for, as we have seen, if the Word of God is written by a plenary divine inspiration, it must contain interior treasures within its outward shell, necessarily formed there by its descent from the Inmost of all things into the world of nature whereas if it is not so written, it cannot include such hidden wisdom; at least, whatever it might thus contain beyond the letter,
would be, in the latter case, the result of artificial contrivance in the writers, not, as in the former, naturally inherent in writings so imparted: and the looking at the spiritual sense thus, as a merely artificial contrivance, has greatly helped to bring it into doubt.
We have seen, also, that the expositions of this sense usually offered,
have not been such as were adapted to recommend it.
Things of little moment, savouring only of the little minds of men, and quite unworthy of the wisdom of Deity, have too generally been produced as spiritual interpretations: and where more elevated ideas have been presented, satisfactory reasons not being assigned for them,

they, also, were liable to be ascribed to the mere fancy of the writers. Among the explications thus offered, there was likewise an endless variety, and generally as much disagreement.
When,
therefore, so much error was thus mixed up with the practice of spiritual interpretation, it was not extraordinary that, however true in itself, discredit should in time be thrown upon the principle also.
Thus many began to shut their eyes to the Scripture testimonies in its favour; to regard it as merely opening a door to uncertainty and confusion; and to insist that the letter of the Holy Word should alone be studied, as the only basis of certainty, and as containing, in fact, all that was intended to be revealed.

Nothing can be farther from my intention, than to depreciate,
in the slightest degree, the literal sense of the Scriptures, or the importance of studying it with diligence: on the contrary, I am fully sensible of the obligations which the Christian world owes to the learned moderns, who have endeavoured to revive a knowledge of the original languages of Holy Writ, and to restore the true import of its words and phrases.
Their labours have furnished the biblical student of our days with more efficient helps to the right understanding of the letter of the sacred pages, than have been before enjoyed since the times when Hebrew and Greek were living languages: and if the partial neglect, or even denial, of the spirit tual sense, was necessary to turn men's minds to the study of the literal sense, with the concentration of powers necessary to its complete elucidation; we may see, in the end for which this was permitted, an object worthy of Divine Providence; for we see the means hereby provided, by which the study of the spiritual sense may be placed upon a safer basis than it ever stood upon before.



the words.

Most heartily do I concur in the observation of Bishop Lowth,
that "the deep and recondite senses" of Scripture, "must owe all their weight and solidity to the just and accurate interpretation of
For whatever senses are supposed to be included in the Prophet's words, Spiritual, Mystical, Allegorical, Analogical, or the like, they must all entirely depend on the literal sense.
This is the only foundation upon which such interpretations can be securely raised; and if this is not firmly and well established, all
Every one must that is built upon it will fall to the ground."*
also admit the following remark to be equally true and candid
" Strange and absurd deductions of notions and ideas, foreign to the author's drift and design, will often arise from the invention of
Commentators, who have nothing but an inaccurate translation to work upon.
This was the case of the generality of the Fathers of the Christian Church, who wrote comments upon the Old Testament: and it is no wonder, that we find them of so little service in leading us into the true meaning and deep sense of the Prophetic
Whoever then assists us better to understand the letter of the Scriptures, is entitled to our thanks; and to our

Writings."

forgiveness if, while intent on this, he should have undervalued their spirit.

But the literal sense of Scripture, and the right understanding to rest on.

of it, have also important uses of their own, independently of that which they furnish in yielding a foundation for the higher meaning
Although there is a great part of the Word of God,
which, without the spiritual sense, would be quite useless as to any spiritual improvement, yet there are other parts in which the most important truths are presented to view in the very letter; and this in sufficient abundance to establish all the points of faith that ought to be insisted upon in the codes of Christian instruction.
Unquestionably, all doctrine should be drawn from the literal sense,
and proved by it: by this, likewise, should all controversies be decided: and nothing which cannot thus be shewn and established,
should be considered as binding upon the conscience of any one otherwise, there would indeed be reason to complain of uncertainty in regard to the foundations of our faith; since the spiritual sense of any particular text, though capable of being clearly exhibited to the intellectual eye, can never appear so unquestionable

Lowth's Isaiah, Prel. Dis.
to a mind that judges solely on the evidence of the senses, as a
The letter of the statement of the same truth in plain words.
Holy "Word is therefore so constructed, that the doctrines most necessary to salvation may therein be openly discerned.
Although the divine truth and wisdom contained in the Scriptures, only shine with all their glory in the spiritual sense, they do not assume their full power, till they appear in a plain statement in the letter; as the energies of the human mind, assume, as their instrument of action, the human hand. We have compared, in a former part of this Lecture, the letter of the Word of God to the skin that covers the body, and its hidden contents to the interior organs and members;
but, to illustrate the present subject, the
Holy Word in general may be compared to a beautiful female,
clothed in becoming drapery, but whose face and hands remain uncovered: thus, while the greater part of the letter of the Scriptures consists of truths veiled over by natural images, which cannot be decyphered without a key, the things most indispensable to be known are openly displayed.

The spiritual sense of Scripture is not however without its use,
in the framing of systems of doctrine also: but its use here will be, not to present the truths wlrich are to be believed, independently of the statements of the letter, but to prevent us from mistaking one of the two classes of passages just alluded to for the other, and thus bringing prominently forward and understanding according to their outward expression, some obscure texts, as if (to carry on our comparison) they belonged to an important feature of the face,
while they form part, in reality, of the skirt of the garment. Everv one knows that there are statements in the Scriptures which appear to be in opposition to each other; as when it is sometimes said of the Divine Being, that he repenteth*, and at others, that he repenteth not.f
It is evident that both these assertions cannot be true in the same sense: and yet, if they equally form part of the
Word of God, they must both be true in some sense: what then is the plain inference, but that the one passage delivers the naked truth, the other, the truth covered with the veil of a mere appearance taken from human ideas?
In both declarations, a spiritual sense is included: but in the one it only exalts and extends, in the other it is required to correct aad rectify, the statement of the

* Gen. vi. 6.

t Numb, xxiii. 19.
letter.

Deny any sense beyond the letter, and you fix such passages in irreconcilable opposition: you have then no alternative,
if you still believe the Scriptures to contain a system of truth, but to fix your attention wholly on the one class of passages, and slur over the other without notice: and you may even select for your preference the class of passages which present the truth under a veil, and may confirm in your mind, as the genuine truth, the outward enigmatical expression, to the neglect of the truth itself,
which other passages openly discover.

This has been the immediate origin (though not the final cause,) of all the mistakes, which,
in various ages, have been obtruded on the world as the doctrines of the Scriptures: --  an insight into the interior meaning of the
Sacred Word would have corrected them at once.

We see then, on the one hand, that the most devoted adherents to the letter of Scripture need not oppose the belief of its containing a farther sense besides, under the apprehension, that this would abolish the former: so far from making void the letter, by viewing it in connexion with the spirit, we thereby establish the letter. On the other hand we see, that a reference to the spiritual sense is highly requisite, to secure us from error in the interpretation of the literal.

Like soul and body, they are equally necessary to each
As the soul, without the body, could not make its existence perceptible in the world of nature; so neither could the spiritual other.

sense of the Scriptures, without the letter, be communicated to the

It is the translucence of the spirit inhabitants of the natural world: and as the body, without the soul, would be void of life; so would be the letter of Scripture, if entirely separate from its spirit.
through the letter which makes this the vehicle of conveying divine truth to the mind, and which presents the truth, in greater or less fulness, even to those who deny its distinct existence; just as the body of man derives from the soul the life it exhibits, even in the case of the materialist, who will not believe that he has a soul
There must be an animating principle somewhere;
within him.
and the inquiry must be highly important which would teach us what it is.

But many fear to admit this idea, in regard to the Scriptures,
under the impression, that any departure from the letter must
The objection necessarily introduce uncertainty, and confusion.
would be well founded, if no rule could be laid down of general


application, but we were to be left to mere conjecture, every expositor being guided solely by his own fancy; in which case,
although, like Justin Martyr*, he might be persuaded, that he had been endowed with a special gift for understanding the Scriptures,
others, not seeing any reason for his explanations, must be prone
But could it be shewn that the Scriptures to doubt their truth.
are written throughout according to an immutable Law or Eule, a knowledge of which would, in explaining them, substitute certainty for conjecture and cut off the sources of vague interpretation:

then this objection, which is the only plausible one, against their containing a spiritual sense, falls immediately to the ground. That they must be written upon one uniform principle, follows as a necessary consequence, upon the supposition that they proceeded from a plenary divine inspiration: that they are thus written, and what the Law or Eule is according to which they are written, we shall endeavour to evince in our subsequent Lectures.

Here then we pause, for the present.

The questions which have been considered in this Lecture are highly important: we have reviewed them at some length: and I hope sufficient reason has been shewn, to incline every serious and candid mind to deAt least, I cannot think I am termine them in the affirmative.
myself deceived so far, as to be following an error which has nothing to give it the air of truth: I cannot but believe, that reasons which appear to me to establish beyond all doubt the spiritual sense of the Scriptures, must at least appear to others of sufficient weight to entitle the subject to a full and fair examination.

This is all that I solicit.

I trust that every Christian will be ready, on sufficient evidence, to accept views which tend so immensely to exalt in his estimation the Word of God; and that the Deist also will listen attentively to considerations, which, if true, prove it to be the Word of God indeed.

* Dial. Par. 2. p. 352, 390.

