
=== Adult

The "Philistine state" and the relation of the commandments to it should furnish an excellent basis for discussion, with the details of the story introduced by way of enlightenment and emphasis as you proceed. They are very forceful brought in this way rather than told in story form.

---
The first book of Samuel tells us about the end of the state of life pictured in the book of Judges and the beginning of a better ordered and directed life, beginning, as it does, with the birth of Samuel and continuing through the whole reign of Saul.

Samuel was the last of the Judges and the only one who came to be recognized by the whole nation as their divinely appointed mentor. In 1 Samuel 3:20 we read, "And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord." We are all familiar with the story of the child Samuel and realize that he represents a calling forth in us of "remains" - states of innocence and trust from our own early childhood — to which we must return if we are ever to break away from our self-confidence and pride in our own intelligence and come again under the direction and protection of the Lord. Samuel's call carried with it a condemnation of the current high priest Eli because he had allowed corruption to creep into the very worship of the tabernacle.

In today's lesson the Lord's prophecy to Samuel is fulfilled and we have the culmination of the state which had been developing throughout the book of Judges. Eli and his sons die, and the ark is captured by the Philistines.

In @AE 700 Swedenborg says: "The Philistines conquered when the sons of Israel departed from the statutes and precepts in not doing them." And in 1 Samuel 7:3 Samuel tells the Israelites how they can conquer: "If ye do return unto the Lord with all your hearts, then put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your hearts unto the Lord, and serve Him only." The Israelites had thought to turn the tide of battle by invoking the power of the ark as a sort of fetish, without examining their conduct to see if it had been in accordance with the words written on the tables preserved in the ark. For this reason the ark did not save them. Its being captured by the Philistines was a symbol of what the Israelites had done to the commandments. They had kept the tables in the ark in the Holy of Holies but had not lived them out in their hearts and lives. This is exactly the Philistine state of knowledge separated from the good of life. The priesthood of Eli and his house perished because, while continuing the formal worship of the Lord, it permitted abuses to creep in, even to the setting up of other gods. It is the same with us whenever we continue going to church and taking our part in the Christian group to which we belong, yet at heart allow ourselves to be led astray into following worldly objectives and indulging in selfish practices: the commandments are still nominally our rules of life, but they are really only in our memories and have no vital connection with our thought and conduct. Our "ark" is captured by the "Philistines."

But our ark cannot remain with the Philistines. The very knowledge of the commandments, if we are doing things contrary to them, will plague us by showing us plainly the ugliness of what we are thinking and doing. The plagues of tumors and of mice were merely the manifestations of the evils into which the people had fallen, habits of sensual living which, as Swedenborg says, "eat up and consume all things of the church." The Philistines represent "those who are in the memory-knowledge of the knowledges of faith, and are not in a life of charity" (@AC 8093). The Philistine state is the state into which we come when we stubbornly persist from day to day in doing what we find pleasant and convenient instead of looking to the Lord for guidance and applying His laws — which we know — in our thought and conduct. Dagon, the god of the Philistines, had the body of a fish and the head and hands of a man. We recall that fish represent affection for knowledges. So the breaking off of the head and hands of Dagon by the presence of the ark, leaving only his fish body, is an interesting picture of the effect of the commandments in showing us our own Philistinism.

How often also, when our knowledge of the commandments rebukes us and shows us our evils, we move them about from place to place in our minds (as the Philistines moved the ark from Ashdod to Gath and from Gath to Ekron) trying to find some abiding place for them where they will be quiescent and cause us no discomfort! But wherever they go, their power exerts itself to reveal hidden sins, until we realize that only by restoring them to their rightful place in our lives can we have peace.

Swedenborg gives us the correspondence of the return of the ark in considerable detail in several places: in @TCR 203, @DP 326[12], and especially in @AE 700, as well as fragmentarily in other passages. When the Philistines determined to return the ark, they called for their diviners to tell them how to go about it. This recalls the story of Balak and Balaam. The fact that the diviners employed correspondences shows that the knowledge of these persisted in Philistia as well as in the eastern country. The golden emerods and the golden mice which were to be returned with the ark are symbols of the renunciation of the evils which the ark had exposed. They are called a trespass offering and involve the recognition of sin and the intention of putting love to the Lord and the neighbor in place of self-love as the motive of our outward conduct. The new cart is a "new but natural doctrine." The Sower suggests that it may be a new acknowledgment of the duty of carrying out the commandments in life. The milk cows on which no yokes had come are good natural affections "not yet defiled by falsities." It is not easy to separate these natural affections from the worldly objects upon which they have been fixed, and this reluctance is represented by the shutting up of the calves at home and the lowing of the cows. We may find an example of this in the difficulty we all find in learning to do good to others without any thought of the gratitude and praise we may receive, or to take our part in the work of our church without expecting everyone else to approve and follow our methods and example.

The cows, under the urging of the divine power of the ark, drew the cart on the road straight to Bethshemesh. Bethshemesh was the nearest of the Levitical towns, where the men had the right to lift the ark from the cart and to make the sacrifice of the cows with the wood from the cart. Spiritually this means that when we do acknowledge our evils and submit to the guidance of the commandments, they gradually resume their true place in our lives, and our natural affections and natural ways of thinking are consecrated to the Lord's service. We may note here that the ark never returned to Shiloh, but passed from city to city until David finally restored it to its place in the Holy of Holies in the new tabernacle which he set up for it in Jerusalem. When we have fallen into the Philistine state, we can never return to exactly the same simple attitude toward the commandments which we had in the period of our early zeal, but if we persist in submitting to their guidance, they will gradually be restored to the central position in our lives and again be written on our hearts, with a new understanding of their force and application.

