
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the Philistines and of the details of the return of the ark are the most interesting lesson for this class. The general lesson in regard to the right place of the commandments in our lives is of course important.

---
When we, as the Israelites did in the time of the Judges, forget our duty to the Lord and begin to imagine that we are good enough to get along without Him, we not only get into one difficulty after another but we actually become worse and worse, and sometimes it takes a very serious setback to make us realize our condition and bring us back into our right relation with the Lord.

Our lesson today is again about Samuel, who was the last of the Judges and the one under whom the whole people was brought finally to a state of repentance. We all remember the beautiful story of the birth of Samuel — how he was dedicated to the Lord's service even before he was born and brought to Shiloh by his mother when he was still a young child to serve the old high priest Eli in the tabernacle. And we remember how the Lord called him in the night and gave him a message for Eli, rebuking Eli for permitting the evil deeds of his sons and telling him that the priesthood should be taken away from his family. The little Samuel represents the stirring in us of our childhood states of innocence and trust. This is the means the Lord uses to prepare us for the blow which must be dealt in order to shake us out of our self-satisfaction.

The enemy attacking the Israelites in our lesson is the Philistines, an enemy who had already gained considerable power over the Israelites. The Philistines picture the ever-present temptation to think that knowledge of spiritual things will save us without obedience. Many people think that because they belong to the church and have learned something about its teachings they have become good people and can do about as they please. If trouble comes to them, they blame the Lord for not saving them from it.

This is particularly true when we are starting out in the world for ourselves, when our worldly occupations and enjoyments are in the forefront of our consciousness and seem all-important. Our allegiance to the Lord comes to be something we take for granted without examining our actual thought and conduct to see whether or not we are living according to the Lord's teachings.

Israel, whose very worship had been profaned by the misdeeds of Hophni and Phinehas, the sons of Eli, fell an easy prey to the Philistines. This time, instead of seeking guidance from the Lord and being led to amend their ways, they sent for the ark to help them, as the superstitious sometimes rely on some amulet or charm. They took the ark out of the Holy of Holies and brought it down to the battlefield. But, although the Lord's power was still in the ark, it did not save Israel. We know that the commandments are given us to save us from evil, but it should not be hard to see that they cannot save us if we do not keep them.

The ark captured by the Philistines and taken into their country is a picture of the commandments held in our minds in a vague way as something holy but with no practical application to our lives. We should notice that after this the tabernacle, empty of the ark, still remained, just as people whose lives have lost their spiritual meaning often continue to go to church. But our spiritual life is bound up with our keeping the commandments; so the fortunes of Israel went with the ark. The commandments in the mind of a person who does not want to keep them do not bring happiness. In the hands of the Philistines the ark caused three disasters. First it caused their idol Dagon to fall and lose its head and hands. Dagon had the body of a fish and the head and hands of a man. Fish, which swim in the water and are cold—blooded, represent the affection for mere knowledge. By adding the head and hands of a man to a fish body, this was made to appear human and fit for worship. But the mere presence of the ark was able to destroy this appearance. We cannot even read the commandments without recognizing that something more than mere knowledge is required of us.

Then appeared the plague of "emerods," or tumors. Skin eruptions are caused by the coming to the surface of impurities in the system. The commandments bring to light our hidden evils. The mice which destroyed the crops symbolize the many small evils in which we indulge when we are in the Philistine state, which destroy the good which we may try to do.

The return of the ark to Israel pictures in us a return to a state of obedience to the commandments. Our "new cart" is a new idea about the place of the commandments in life and the cows are our new affection for useful living. The calves which were left behind are the natural, selfish forms which our affections have been taking when we were in the Philistine state. The golden tumors and mice are our determination to replace our selfish habits with unselfish service to the Lord and the neighbor. The number five always pictures "a little but enough." It is used of the small beginnings of goodness. The lowing of the cows for their calves is our natural longing for our former selfish pleasures even while we are allowing obedience to the commandments to lead us into a better state. The sacrifice of the cows after they arrived at Bethshemesh is the consecration of our affections to the Lord.

The ark did not stay at its first stopping place. Bethshemesh was one of the forty-eight Levitical cities — cities which were given to the Levites for their possession when the land was divided by lot among the other tribes — but it was close to the Philistine country. In our story it represents the first state of worship after the beginning of repentance. The ark was very soon moved to another Levitical city, Kirjath-jearim, further inland and on higher ground, and there it remained for twenty years until King David carried it to Jerusalem.

