
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors are old enough to get the general lesson of what is meant by the misuse of the ark and also why it plagued the Philistines. Emphasize the fact that this story leads up to the acceptance of Samuel as Judge over the whole nation. This will help to lay the foundation for the story of the kings.

---
You remember that the Judges were men raised up by the Lord in different parts of the land to lead the people against particular enemies. None of them except the last was recognized by all the people as their head. And the people did not learn wisdom from their adversities. In spite of the Lord's willingness to help them they continued to go their own selfish way. Finally even the priests in the tabernacle were corrupt. The tabernacle had been set up by Joshua at Shiloh in the center of the land, and regular worship was still conducted there in spite of the fact that the people also worshiped the gods of the other nations. At the time of our story for today, Eli, the high priest, was a very old man and had allowed his two sons, Hophni and Phinehas, to take over his duties; and although he knew that they were profaning the tabernacle, he did nothing to stop their evil practices. Then, as you remember, the child Samuel was brought to the tabernacle to wait on Eli and the Lord called him in the middle of the night and gave him a message for Eli. Samuel became the last of the Judges, and the only one recognized by all the people as a man set over them by the Lord.

But before Samuel was grown up, the self-confidence of the people was broken by a great disaster, which is the subject of our lesson for today.

With what enemy were the Israelites fighting?

The Philistines were a people who lived on the plain along the seacoast. They were an active and wealthy people and had strong, walled cities. The most important of these were Gath, Ekron, Ashdod, Askelon, and Gaza. In the time of the Judges, the Philistines had grown very confident and were oppressing the Israelites. Always before, when their enemies have become too strong for them, the Israelites had turned to the Lord and asked Him what to do.

What did they do this time?

Was this the same as asking the Lord to help them?

Who brought the ark from Shiloh to the battlefield?

What happened to the ark?

What happened to Hophni and Phinehas?

The Israelites were expecting the Lord to save them without their changing their ways or looking to Him for direction. We sometimes do this ourselves. We do things we know are wrong, and then expect the Lord to save us from the consequences without even being sorry for what we have done.

Where did the Philistines first take the ark?

Where did they put it?

What happened to the statue of their god?

The Philistine idol, Dagon, had the body of a fish and the head and hands of a man. He was really a picture of what the Philistines were like in their minds. The breaking off of the human head and hands left him nothing but a fish.

Wherever the ark was taken in the Philistine country two plagues broke out. The people were afflicted with tumors, and mice infested the fields and destroyed the crops. These two plagues, like the plagues of Egypt, were pictures of the particular evils which were infesting the people.

When you are in a selfish state, does it make you happy to think of the commandments? No, the commandments are a trouble to those who do not want to obey them, and they want to get rid of them.

What was used to send the ark back to the Israelites?

How was the cart drawn?

What gifts were sent with it?

Who told the Philistines how to send it back?

Where did the cows take the ark?

What did the men of Bethshemesh do?

Every story in the Bible is really a parable, a picture of something which may happen in our souls. You will learn more about this story as you grow older, but you can see something of its meaning even now. In our lives our "ark" goes into "Philistine country" when we try to put the commandments away in the back of our minds because we don't want to obey them. It is "returned to Israel" when we make up our minds to put the commandments back where they belong, in the center of our lives.

The ark was never returned to Shiloh. It was taken from Bethshemesh to Kirjath-jearim and set up in the house of a man named Abinadab, where it remained for twenty years. Both Bethshemesh and Kirjath-jearim were "Levitical" cities. That means that they were among the forty-eight cities throughout the Holy Land which had been assigned to the Levites instead of a separate lot when the land was divided among the tribes. So the inhabitants of these cities were Levites and had the right to handle and care for the ark. The ark was finally brought to Jerusalem by King David, who pitched a new tabernacle there for it.

