
=== Primary

The details of the return of the ark make an interesting lesson. The simple moral lesson to be drawn is that the Lord cannot make us happy while we are doing wrong. The teacher should be prepared to fill in the story of the capture of the ark and the results of its presence among the Philistines, as the actual reading suggested for this class is only a brief part of the whole story. There are many details which will interest the children. The teacher might well read to the class 1 Samuel 5:1-11.

---
We have just studied the story of Samuel, whose mother brought him, when he was still a little boy, to the tabernacle at Shiloh to be a helper to Eli, the high priest, and of how the Lord called Samuel out of his sleep in the night and gave him a message for Eli. All the people knew that this meant that Samuel was to be a prophet of the Lord, and when Samuel grew up, he became the last of the Judges and was recognized by all the people instead of just by those in some one part of the country.

Before Samuel grew up, the people had a serious lesson which showed them how wicked they had grown through forgetting to worship the Lord. They were being attacked by a nation called the Philistines who lived in the Holy Land along the seacoast. The Philistines were a very strong nation and were getting the better of the Israelites. The Israelites knew that when they did right, the Lord always gave them victory over their enemies, but this time, instead of trying to find out what was wrong with themselves, they took the ark out of the tabernacle and brought it down to the battlefield, believing that it would give them the victory. And the Lord permitted the Philistines to capture the ark and carry it off to their own cities.

Then the Philistines learned a lesson, too. They put the ark in the temple of their god Dagon, and in the night the statue of Dagon fell off its pedestal, and its head and hands were broken off. Then a plague struck the people and many died, and mice began to destroy their crops. So the Philistines knew that they must send the ark back.

When they decided to send it back, who told them how this should be done?

What were they told to send with it?

How did they return it?

Where did the cattle take the ark?

Afterward Samuel called the Israelites together and they confessed their evils and promised to serve the Lord again.

