
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Again the lesson is one of warning for this age group against the temptations which will soon be coming to them as they go out to establish themselves in the world. We cannot say to them too often or too strongly, "Remember that the commandments are always to be kept, and that we need the Lord every step of our way through life."

---
The period of the Judges was a sort of interlude. Now this interlude has drawn to a close. The Israelites have reached a state of self-satisfaction and indifference to the Lord out of which they must be awakened or they will perish. The Lord prepared the way for this awakening by raising up Samuel, who was to be the last of the Judges, and calling him to deliver a warning to the high priest Eli, who had permitted his sons, Hophni and Phinehas, to desecrate the very worship of the tabernacle. The judgment on Eli and his house predicted through the child Samuel was promptly executed, and our lesson today is one of tragedy.

As a background for this lesson we need to have in mind the general outline of the history of Israel from the time at Sinai when they were given the commandments written by the finger of God on two tables of stone and were told to make an ark to hold them and a tabernacle in which to place the ark. From that time on their whole life had centered in the ark and the tabernacle. The ark had led them through the wilderness, across the Jordan, and around the walls of Jericho until they fell. It had been their protection and the source of their instruction. Finally the tabernacle had been set up by Joshua in the center of the land at Shiloh and their worship had been established there.

But once it was more or less permanently established, the people as a whole had apparently forgotten all about it. Some faithful ones still went to the tabernacle to worship, but most of the people were absorbed in their worldly occupations and had drifted into serving the idols of the nations among whom they lived.

Isn't this a true picture of what often happens to us? We are brought up in good homes, taken care of, instructed at home and in Sunday school. We accept the teachings of the church and join it, and believe that we are established as good Christians. Then we begin to earn our living and carry on our independent lives. Our days are busy with our work. We marry and settle in our own homes. We make friends in the community where we live and our pleasures are found in its social life. Some of us still go to church regularly and continue to study and to live the teachings of the church. But many, perhaps the majority, drift away from regular worship and begin to adopt the ideas and standards of the people with whom they associate.

Then the Philistines attack. The Philistines picture the temptation to be satisfied with knowing what is right without making any effort to live according to the truth we know. We get into difficulties. We suddenly find that we have lost our power of resistance to evil, and we remember the safety we had in our earlier lives and habits. The Israelites remembered the ark. But they did not go to the tabernacle to confess their sins and ask for guidance and help. They sent for the ark to be brought down to the battlefield for the sole purpose of saving their lives. We do the same sort of thing whenever we expect the Lord to support us regardless of our conduct, to save us from the consequences of our own wrongdoing without any effort on our part to repent and amend our ways.

The ark was captured by the Philistines. When the commandments are not kept, they have no power in our lives. They become merely knowledge held in the memory. Hophni and Phinehas were killed and Eli died when he heard that the ark had been taken. When we cease to believe that the commandments must be obeyed, all life goes out of our worship.

The tabernacle became an empty shell. Throughout the Old Testament the ark represents the heart of our worship. Its journeys tell the story of our changing states. When it is leading the Israelites it stands for those times when we are genuinely seeking to be led by the Lord. The various places in which it is set up mirror our considered attitudes toward divine law. When it is neglected, it pictures our states of preoccupation with worldly and selfish concerns. When it is captured by the Philistines it means we have consigned the keeping of the commandments to the realm of the impossible.

But we find that we are not happy in that state. The ark plagued the Philistines. The knowledge of the commandments, when we are making no effort to keep them, is a constant irritant. First the god Dagon was toppled over. Our worship of our own intelligence totters when the commandments enter our thoughts. We are forced to recognize the worldly and superficial nature of our thinking. Dagon had the body of a fish but the head and hands of a man. When, on the second morning, his head and hands were found to have broken off, he was only a fish. And the cold—blooded fish which swim in the sea picture our enjoyment of knowledges for their own sake. The commandments make us realize that such enjoyment does not measure up to our human capabilities. We have to "draw the fish out of the sea and eat them" to make them serve human needs. Then the Philistines were plagued by tumors, and their crops destroyed by mice. The thought of the commandments brings to our attention our hitherto unnoticed evils and shows us how our selfish indulgences take the wholesomeness out of even our good deeds.

We try by various reasonings to keep the ark in the Philistine country (that is, we try in spite of our troubles to continue to ignore the commandments). The Philistines sent it in turn to three of their great cities. But the plagues went with it. Finally we are brought to a recognition of the necessity of confession and repentance and the restoration of the commandments to their true place in our lives. The new cart pictures our new way of thinking about the commandments; and the two cows, our new determination to restore the commandments to their rightful control over our actions. The lowing of the cattle after their calves is the longing we have to go back to what seem easier and pleasanter habits. The golden images of the tumors and mice picture the replacing of selfish by unselfish motives. The number five signifies "a little but enough."

It is never easy to bring about such a reversal of the whole course of our thinking and living. The ark proceeded by stages, always welcomed at first but necessitating sacrifices. So the commandments, as they cause us to look more and more deeply into our hearts, take their inevitable toll of our selfish enjoyments.

