
=== Intermediate

Center the lesson on the correspondence of verses 33 and 34, using the disciples of the first part of the chapter as an illustration of those whose eye is "single" and the scribes and Pharisees as an illustration of those whose eye is "evil."

From our lesson in Malachi you may remember that the coming of the Lord into the world would be to the wicked like a consuming fire which would burn them up. In our lesson today we find how this prophecy worked out. The scribes and Pharisees in the Gospel story typify that element which at heart hated all the things the Lord came to teach, although outwardly they posed as the most strictly religious of all the people. The scribes — also called lawyers — were the learned men who studied the Old Testament and were regarded as authorities in the law of Moses. The Pharisees were a sect who prided themselves on their strict observance of the law. But both these groups loved the power they had over the people, and they had added many regulations of their own to the law in order to keep the people in subjection to themselves. As long as the people looked to them for instruction, their position was secure, but when first John the Baptist and then the Lord Himself appeared, and the people began to listen to them, the scribes and Pharisees felt their hold on the people weakening, and they "burned" with anger and with hatred of the Lord. They knew the prophecies and should have recognized Him as the Messiah, but, like all of us at times, they believed what they wanted to believe.

This is what is meant by verses 33 and 34 of our chapter. Light is one of the principal symbols of truth. A candle or lamp by whose means light is given forth represents doctrine. "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path." Do you remember how the Lord, when He appeared in Revelation to the apostle John, was seen in the midst of seven candlesticks? In Revelation 1:20 we read: "The seven candlesticks which you saw are the seven churches." It is the church which is supposed to teach true doctrine so that its people will be able to walk in the light instead of stumbling in the darkness of ignorance. The scribes and Pharisees, who considered themselves to be the church, covered up true doctrine instead of teaching it. Their own self-love had closed their minds to the truth even when it came to them in the person of the Lord Himself.

The eye, you remember, corresponds to the understanding.

When the understanding is not clouded with selfish thoughts, the eye is "single," that is, pure or clear. But when selfishness governs the understanding, the light of truth cannot penetrate. You know how this is from your own experience. When you are trying to have your own way about something, your mind is so busy finding reasons why you should be allowed to do what you want that you will not listen to the simple truth. The scribes and Pharisees had to admit the Lord's power to work miracles, but in order that they might not have to admit that He really was the Messiah they claimed that His power came from the devil (verse 15). We should remember this verse, because it shows us how far one can go when he is trying to have his own way, and also it shows us that miracles do not produce faith.

The Lord's description in our chapter of the character of the scribes and Pharisees is summed up in the word hypocrites in verse 44. The same charges are made in more detail in the twenty-third chapter of Matthew. In both Gospels there are two charges which most of us remember better than the others. One is that they are careful to pay their tithes but forget to practice the virtues that the tithes stand for — "judgment and the love of God." The other is that they cleanse the outside of the cup and platter, but leave the inside full of wickedness. The cup, which held wine, pictures the knowledges we have in our minds which are capable of containing spiritual truth. The platter, which held food, pictures things in the mind which should contain goodness. So you see how exactly this verse describes the hypocrisy of the scribes and Pharisees. They had all the necessary knowledges from the Scriptures, but they had let their selfish desires and reasonings fill them up so that there was no place for truth or goodness.

There are many other interesting things in this chapter. It gives us, for one thing, our second version of the Lord's Prayer. You will notice that it differs slightly from the version in Matthew. The translation "as in heaven, so in earth" is a more accurate rendering of the Greek than "on earth as it is in heaven" (see footnote to Junior notes). Swedenborg tells us that unless it is the desire of the heart and mind — the heavens of the soul — to do the Lord's will, our outward doing of it — the earth — is not sincere. So this, too, is related to the general subject of our chapter. The parable of the householder and the promise in verses 9 and 10 are addressed to true disciples of the Lord.

The "sign of Jonas the prophet" mentioned in verse 29 means, as we learn from Matthew 12:40, the Lord's resurrection on the third day after the crucifixion. Jonas is a Greek form of Jonah. We remember that Jonah, after three days in the belly of the great fish, was cast up alive on the shore, and now we see that this was one of the prophecies of the Lord's life on earth. The story of Jonah and the Ninevites is told in chapter 3 of the book of Jonah. In verse 31 the "queen of the south" means the queen of Sheba. The story of her visit to Solomon is told in 1 Kings 10:1-10.

