
=== Junior

The Juniors should learn well who the scribes and Pharisees were, why they refused to recognize the Lord, and why the Lord condemned them. They should also learn the word hypocrite and what it means. The Bible references in their notes should be looked up.

Our chapter for today begins with the story of how the Lord gave us the Lord's Prayer. The form in Luke is not so familiar to us as that in Matthew, but there are two things about it which we should especially notice. One is that the last sentence in verse 2 gives the order "as in heaven, so in earth," which is actually the order in the original Greek in both Matthew and Luke.* If we are to do the Lord's will on earth — in our outward lives — we must first write His will in the heavens within — our minds and hearts. The second is the use of the word sins instead of debts. As you may know, in many churches the form used is, "Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us." This is not the form given in either Gospel, although Matthew introduces it in the Lord's explanation of the prayer. We often do need to pray for forgiveness of our sins or trespasses, but we always need to pray, "Forgive us our debts," for we are in debt to the Lord for everything we have.

[*This phrase, however, occurs only in Codex Vaticanus in the Luke version. Later versions omit "Thy will be done ..." cf. @AC 2009[2], where it is cited as above, although the explanation then renders it "on earth as in the heavens." @AE 1217[2] also quotes the Matthew version as "on earth as in the heavens," but then states that "the Lord always rules both heaven and earth." -Editor]

Read verses 5 to 10 and then read Matthew 6:7-8, which are the verses just before the Lord's Prayer in that Gospel. These seem to say different things, don't they? Now read Matthew 7:21-23. You see, when the Lord is speaking to His disciples, He is speaking to those who are trying to learn from Him and to obey Him. When we are His true disciples, He is always ready to hear and answer our prayers, even though sometimes for our good the answer has to be, "No," just as it does when we ask our parents for things which they know would do us harm. In the Gospel of Matthew the passage about the Lord's Prayer is part of the sermon on the mount, which was preached to a great crowd of people, who were in various states of life.

Most of our chapter today is about the Lord and the scribes and Pharisees. The scribes or "lawyers" were those who were educated in the law of Moses. They spent their lives reading and copying the books of the Old Testament, and they were the ones who told the people what the law said. Read Matthew 2:3-6. The Pharisees were a sect who claimed to be more religious than any others and who made a great show of their religion and expected to be looked up to by everyone because of it. See what is said of them in Matthew 23:5-7. These two groups had added a great many laws and regulations of their own to the laws of Moses so as to keep people under their own control, and the people — most of whom could not read — had no idea what was really the law of the Lord. The scribes and Pharisees of course knew all the prophecies of the coming of the Messiah, and they should have recognized and welcomed the Lord but, like Herod, they did not really want any ruler in the land instead of themselves.

Where did they say the Lord's power came from? 

What did the Lord tell them?

In verse 16 what did His enemies ask for? 

What sign did He say they would have?

In Matthew 12:39-40 you will find what He meant by the "sign of Jonas the prophet." He was referring to His own coming crucifixion and His resurrection on the third day. Jonas is a Greek form of Jonah. The story of Jonah and the people of Nineveh is found in the third chapter of the book of Jonah. The "queen of the south" means the queen of Sheba. If you do not remember that story, read it in 1 Kings 10:1-10. You see that if we are to understand what the Lord says to us in the Gospels, we need to study the Old Testament.

When in verse 33 the Lord says that a candle should not be lit and then covered up so that the light cannot be seen, He is referring to the way in which the scribes and Pharisees had covered up the truths of the Word so that the people could not see them. In this verse, the translation should be lamp and lampstand instead of candle and candlestick. They did not have candles in those days. Their lamps were dishes formed like a very shallow pitcher with a handle. They burned oil in them, which came up to the spout in a wick so that the flame was at the spout. We should also know that the word single in verse 34 is an old word for clear or pure. The Lord's teaching here is that it is selfishness which prevents our seeing the truth. We should remember this when we are refusing to recognize what we ought to do because we want to have our own way instead. We are all sometimes like the scribes and Pharisees.

The Pharisees saw that the people believed in the Lord. So they often pretended to listen to Him, but it was only in the hope that they could find something in His words or actions which they could tell the people was wrong. So in our chapter one of the Pharisees invited the Lord to dinner.

What did the Lord do which he objected to?

What did the Lord tell him?

What did He say about tithes?

The tithe was the tenth of their produce of every kind, which they were supposed to give to the service of the Lord. The Pharisees made a great show of paying their tithes.

What did the Lord call the scribes and Pharisees?

A hypocrite is a person who pretends to be what he really is not, so that people will praise and respect him. We should try to be good all through — in our thoughts and feelings as well as in our acts. The Lord sees our hearts and minds just as He saw those of the scribes and Pharisees.

