
=== Notes for Parents

We know that the Lord, when He was in the world, gave us a wonderful example of love and self-sacrifice and daily service. We know that He healed people of many diseases and raised the dead. We think of Him as tender and gentle, loving and forgiving. But there were two groups of people whom the Lord condemned in no uncertain terms. They were the scribes and Pharisees, the people who were learned in the law of Moses and made a great show of religion, while at heart they were proud and selfish and hard, expecting everyone to admire and serve them. He called them hypocrites.

Perhaps you have heard of the "unforgivable sin." According to Matthew 12:31 it is blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. People have sometimes worried a good deal about it because they did not know just what it meant and were afraid they might commit the unforgivable sin without knowing it. The Holy Spirit is the spirit of truth proceeding from the Lord to enlighten us and show us what is right and wrong. To blaspheme against the Holy Spirit is to know what the truth is and refuse to try to do it. The scribes and Pharisees really knew they should accept the Lord, but they would not acknowledge it because they did not want to change themselves. They could not deny the Lord's power, for they saw His miracles; so they said His power came from "Beelzebub the chief of the devils." They wanted to appear good, but they did not want to be good.

This sin is unforgivable not because the Lord is unforgiving, but because the person who acts this way will not let the Lord's forgiving spirit enter his heart. This is why we pray, "Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors." If we refuse to listen to the truth or to acknowledge it as truth when we do hear it, the truth cannot reach us to purify our hearts and minds and lead us to the Lord. To His disciples, who believed and obeyed Him, the Lord said, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." The hypocrite closes the door of his heart and mind against the Lord. It was the scribes and Pharisees who finally crucified the Lord.

If you will read this chapter thoughtfully, you will find that each part of it — and it can be divided into several apparently separate parts — has something to contribute to the general teaching that if we would be good people, we must keep our hearts and minds constantly in a state of willing reception of the Lord's truth. It is not enough to do the outward good deeds which make us popular with our neighbors. Goodness is something within us which can come only from the Lord. The Lord speaks to us today in His Word just as really as He spoke to the people in Palestine nearly two thousand years ago. Are we among those who hear Him gladly, or do we close our minds to His teachings in the Word because it might say something we did not want to hear? The chapter speaks to us all.

