
=== Senior

The lessons of sincerity and humility are important for your young people. They are often tempted to pretend to feel and think as the rest of their "crowd" does. Hypocrisy may be an expression of cowardice in that case. If they can be led to see it as a danger signal in themselves, they will be led to do independent thinking and will gain in spiritual strength.

When the Lord was in the world, His severest condemnations were addressed to the scribes and Pharisees, the two religious groups who held the position of highest honor among the laity. Both groups were outwardly devoted to the study and keeping of the law of Moses. The Lord charged them with hypocrisy, and their attitude toward Him proved them to be hypocrites. For they knew all the prophecies concerning the Messiah and pretended to be looking forward to His coming, and yet when one appeared who fulfilled all the prophecies, they were unwilling even to consider whether He might be the Messiah because His presence and teaching were a threat to their own power over the people. They even said His ability to work miracles — which they could not deny — came from the devil.

We all dislike hypocrisy when it is uncovered. But we do not always stop to think what it really is or to ask whether we ourselves may be guilty of it. In @TCR 147 Swedenborg says: "It is as yet scarcely known in the church that in all of man's will and thought and his consequent action and speech, there is an internal and an external, and that from infancy man is carefully taught to speak from the external, however the internal may dissent; and that this is the origin of simulation, flattery, and hypocrisy; and thus man becomes double—minded. But he alone is single—minded whose external thinks and speaks and wills and acts from the internal; and such are meant by the 'simple (single)' in the Word (as in Luke 8:15; 11:34, and elsewhere). Nevertheless these are wiser than those who are double—minded." This does not mean that we should always be in the attitude of "calling a spade a spade," as some rather disagreeable people enjoy doing. We remember that our first step toward regeneration is reformation of the outward conduct, even against our natural inclinations, and that the Lord makes use of our natural desire to be liked and praised to help us in the beginning of this reformation. You recall the story of the quails and manna in the wilderness, and that the quails represented natural satisfaction from doing right. But this is only the beginning, and there is nothing genuine about our outward goodness until we reach the point where it comes from the heart. This is why in the original Greek in Matthew as well as in Luke the petition in the Lord's Prayer reads, "Thy will be done as in heaven so in earth" (see footnote to Junior notes), just as it is translated in verse 2 of our chapter [KJV]. This is the true order of doing good and the state of mind and life for which we should pray.

The first part of our chapter emphasized the Lord's unselfish love, His willingness to give all good things to those who look to Him for goodness. This is pointed up by the miracle — told in a single verse — of the dumb man who was able to speak when the Lord had cast out the devil who possessed him. You remember from the story of Zacharias that dumbness represents inability to "confess" the Lord. The scribes and Pharisees saw this miracle. They could not deny the fact. It should have led them to acknowledge the Lord themselves. But their minds were so clouded by thoughts of self-interest that they said the Lord's power came from Beelzebub. Their inner state is described by the Lord in the story of the house that is swept and garnished only that it may become the abode of seven devils instead of one.

All through the chapter the Lord points out to us by one means after another that it is our will — our free choice — which determines whether we acknowledge the truth or not. The men of Nineveh and the queen of Sheba were Gentiles. They did not have the direct knowledge of the Lord in the Scriptures which the scribes and Pharisees had. Yet they recognized wisdom when they heard it because they were humble—minded before the Lord while the scribes and Pharisees did not recognize the Lord Himself.

In verse 33 the Lord is referring to the treatment His truth had received at the hands of the church. A candlestick — or lampstand, as it should be translated — is a symbol of the church, whose office is to hold the truth high so that men will receive its light. And the next verses sum up the lesson in parable form. Then follow the Lord's specific complaints against the Pharisees and the scribes or lawyers — which are familiar to us. They are given in more detail in the twenty-third chapter of Matthew.

Young people just starting out in life need to take this lesson very much to heart. Suppose we put it in this way: Whenever I catch myself behaving toward other people in a way which is contrary to the way in which I feel, it is time to take stock of my feelings and try to straighten myself out inside — to give the inside of the cup and platter a thorough cleansing.

