
=== Adult

The correspondence of Joseph and Benjamin and of Ephraim and Manasseh is the focal point of the lesson. In discussing the latter the teacher may want to read to the class the quotation from the writings found at the end of the lesson. There is excellent discussion material in the whole of @AC 6222.

One of the most striking features of the Bible story is the recurrent cycles, often involving very similar incidents. Our chapter for today, with its account of the blessing of Ephraim and Manasseh, takes us back to the blessing of Jacob and Esau, and still further back to the offerings of Cain and Abel. Each pair of brothers represents faith and charity, or truth and good, but in different contexts and at different levels. In each case a series of events leads up to and follows from the relationship between the two brothers. In the first instance, because of the immediate background of the story, the brother representing faith is born first. In the other two, although the brother representing love is the firstborn, he is supplanted by his brother. These repetitions are not accidental, and the lesson they teach is an important one. Our lives proceed in cycles, beginning anew with each new emergence of truth and good. If we are progressing spiritually, the cycles carry us ever higher. If we have turned away from the Lord, their course is inverted. We recall that the hells are described as a man upside down (@AC 3641).

The life of Jacob followed one cycle: He lived through his time of temptation and development, returned to his childhood home, became reconciled to his brother, and inherited his father's position as head of the family. Joseph and Benjamin, his last—born sons, were still in their childhood. But they constituted the beginning of a new cycle. They, too, represent love and truth; but this time the conflict was not between the two but between Joseph and his older brothers, and Joseph was the one who was despised and rejected. This is because Jacob was the last representative of the Ancient Church, which was a true church, as well as the immediate ancestor of the Israelitish Church, which was only representative of a church. You recall the difference between the names Jacob and Israel. Note their use in this chapter. A new period is beginning, in which the church is being built up. In order that it may exist at all, it must have some connection with the Lord, and that connection is established through Joseph. The spirit of the older brothers in the story is the spirit of that church toward any internal spiritual qualities.

In technical terms Benjamin represents "the spiritual of the celestial" and Joseph the "celestial of the spiritual." This is not a mere juggling of words. We can understand them and the difference between them if we remember that between the inmost or celestial plane of the soul, where the Lord's influx enters, and the outmost natural plane, which is in contact with the material world, there is the interior or rational plane, which opens both ways. Benjamin represents divine truth as it flows in from the celestial plane through the rational into the natural. Joseph represents the good — the celestial — which belongs to this truth. The older brothers are the various faculties developed in the natural plane itself. They are good or bad as they serve or resist Joseph.

In terms of the general development of the man or woman who is regenerating, the period of Jacob is the time when he is developing his independent life on the natural plane. At some point in that period he becomes conscious of the possibility of a higher development within him than the merely worldly. This is the birth of Joseph. He returns to the Holy Land of his earlier years and reestablishes himself in worship of the Lord. But this is the signal for a new struggle. The natural faculties resist the encroachment of a higher authority. The older brothers say, "Behold, this dreamer cometh," and sell Joseph into Egypt. That is, at this point the first desire of our natural faculties is to relegate divine truth to the plane of memory-knowledge and keep it a prisoner there.

The story of Joseph is quite generally recognized as a foreshadowing of the Lord's life on earth. The Lord was carried into Egypt to escape the wrath of the jealous Herod. He, too, was lost to the sight of the recognized church and in obscurity "increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man." In the regenerating person, the Lord's providence cares for and develops the faculty of receiving divine truth until a time of famine comes and the person realizes his own helplessness and is ready to submit his judgment to providence. Then a new learning period begins. Jacob and his whole family come to Egypt.

The book of Genesis leaves us with a picture of the Egyptian state when it is orderly. Pharaoh — the natural principle — is on the throne. But he has voluntarily placed Joseph in full control of the land, and Israel and all his family have been settled in the best of the land that they may be nourished and protected during the years of famine. It is a picture of an orderly learning period. Our freedom of choice is unimpaired, but we have chosen the Lord as our ruler, set our natural affections and thoughts in their proper relation to Him, and settled down to receive instruction from Him.

One feature of this picture is Jacob's final setting up of Joseph's two sons as equal to his own. He says, "as Reuben and Simeon they shall be mine." Reuben and Simeon represent faith and obedience on the natural plane. Ephraim and Manasseh represent faith and obedience on the intellectual plane. In @AC 6216 Swedenborg says, "The intellectual of the church is 'Ephraim,' and the will of the church is 'Manasseh.'" From this point on in the Word, the spiritual church is represented by Israel and the children of Israel, even though the Jewish Church, represented by Jacob, is not itself a true church even on the natural plane. We should note here a statement made by Swedenborg in @AC 6222 concerning Ephraim:

"This intellectual, which is called the intellectual of the church, is more interior than the intellectual which comes from mere memory—knowledges, for it is a perception that the thing is so, not from the dictate of memory-knowledges and philosophy, but from the dictate of the Word in its spiritual sense." Ephraim and Manasseh are adopted by Jacob, but they are actually the sons of Joseph, who represents the Divine as it enters the rational plane of the mind from above.

The placing of Ephraim before Manasseh by Jacob, although Manasseh was the firstborn, teaches a lesson which recurs so frequently in the Word and is also expressed so clearly in the writings that we have no excuse for ignoring it. The will is primary. We do or think nothing without an act of will. But before the will can accomplish any purpose, the mind must be instructed. And this cannot be done once for all. The same situation recurs in every cycle in the Word. However good our intentions may be, we make no spiritual progress unless we are constantly trying to acquire new truth from the Word and the writings. If we think our conscience, as already developed, is a sufficient guide for the rest of our lives, we are woefully mistaken. We have simply embalmed Joseph and put him in a coffin and settled down to take our direction from the Egyptians.

