
=== Notes for Parents

We all know something of the beautiful story of Joseph, one of the few people in the Old Testament who seem wholly admirable. There are many things in the story which make us think of the Lord's life on earth. He was despised by his brothers, as the Lord was later "despised and rejected of men." He was sold for a few pieces of silver. He was providentially taken down into Egypt to preserve him from destruction. And because he trusted the Lord and did right, he became wise and great, as the Lord "increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man." Finally he became the ruler to whom his brothers bowed down, and he forgave them and saved them.

Joseph is a representative of our higher spiritual perceptions. These are in all of us, but while our thoughts and efforts are centered on worldly success, we try to forget them, to put them away out of sight. Then the Lord has to preserve them for us, and He strengthens them so that when trouble comes we can go to them for help.

Joseph had two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh. How often in the Bible we find stories of two brothers! They always represent faith and charity, or the understanding and the will. Joseph's two sons picture the thoughts and the intentions which spring from our recognition of the fact that we must believe and trust divine truth as the Lord gives it to us in His Word. Manasseh was the firstborn. He is the intention, the will. We never do or think anything except from some impulse of the will. That is the first thing. But we find that Jacob, when he was about to die, put Ephraim before Manasseh. Ephraim is the thought. No intention of ours can be carried out until we have learned how to accomplish it. So we must learn what is right before we can do it. We know that often our good intentions seem to miscarry because, as we say, we "acted on impulse." That is why we bring our children to Sunday school and why we must all continue all our lives to study the Bible and go to church for help in understanding it. We need to learn new truth from the Lord all the time; for no matter how good our intentions, we can make no spiritual progress without it.

