
=== Adult

This lesson with the Adults may well be geared to improving the underlying attitude of the older people in the church toward the younger people. In many even of our own societies there is a cleavage between the two groups which is damaging to both and to the church as a whole, and which need not exist if the older people have understanding and patience.

---
With this lesson we enter a new phase of ancient Hebrew history, and we should have the general outline of the history to this point in mind, beginning with the patriarchal leadership of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob which in the individual life pictures the period of infancy, childhood, and early youth, when we are under the control of our parents albeit with ever-increasing understanding and initiative of our own. After the sojourn in Egypt a new type of leadership is introduced in Moses, who represents the Law. This is a period of self-compulsion which lasts until, by experience, we are so convinced of the effectiveness of an orderly life and the disastrous results of disobedience that external obedience to the commandments has become a matter of course in all ordinary affairs. Then we are ready to take the next step and attack the evils in our inner lives. Joshua comes to the fore — the truth fighting — and we follow him until we feel that we are really established in the good life — until the Holy Land is conquered.

But the book of Judges shows us that the conquest is not complete. As soon as we cease to examine ourselves and to fight temptation, our enemies both within and without begin to gain strength again and our lives become a series of battles waged under the leadership of one or another truth, represented by the various Judges, with periods of rest between. Throughout all the time from Moses to the end of the book of Judges the office of priest is separate from the office of leader, the priest representing good and the leader truth. So far as they work together the leadership of the people is sound, but if they are out of harmony — if either is corrupt — disorganization and disaster result. In Samuel the two offices are for a time united, but presently we read: "It came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel." And his sons were corrupt. Here we have the lesson of the necessity of constant watchfulness; our own ideas creep in and corrupt the divine order in which we think we are established. A new beginning must be made.

The desire for a king can be most easily illustrated from the experience of young people. They are often genuinely perplexed by their parents' reaction to their conduct. "Why should my mother allow this thing and forbid that? I can't see that there is more harm in the one than in the other. How can I tell what I ought to do?" It is the demand for a constant principle of action which will apply to all cases. They have reached the point where they wish to be able to judge for themselves what they ought and ought not to do. They do not want to be always asking permission. This is a natural development. The Lord foresaw its expression in the history of Israel. In Deuteronomy 17:14-20 it is foretold that Israel will demand a king, and the people are commanded to take the king whom the Lord shall choose.

There is an element of loss in this desire for independence from priestly authority. The celestial state desires nothing else than to look to the Lord as a little child to his parent. Self-dependence, even when the desire is to obey the truth, involves ignorance, mistakes, and disasters. Loving and wise parents often sigh when their children reach this stage, as Samuel disliked and feared the change. Yet it is a natural stage, and the Lord has provided for it. The Lord told Samuel to let the people have their way but to warn them that life under a king would not be easy. A king represents truth judging, apart from good, and truth apart from good is always a hard master. In @AC 8770[2] Swedenborg makes an interesting distinction; he says that the kingdom of the judges represents the rule of divine truth from divine good; the kingdom of priests who were also judges (Eli and Samuel), the rule of divine good from which is divine truth; but the kingdom of kings, the rule of divine truth without divine good. In @AC 1672, in making the distinction between the meanings of "nation" and "people," he says: "Before the sons of Israel sought for kings, they were a nation, and represented good, or the celestial; but after they desired a king, and received one, they became a people, and did not represent good or the celestial, but truth or the spiritual; which was the reason why this was imputed to them as a fault." See also @AE 2015[11] (below). The Lord tells Samuel, "Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee; for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them." The desire for independent judgment goes deeper than mere rebellion against parental authority; it is rebellion against all authority which is not felt to be self-derived. Parents cannot prevent it; they can only point out the dangers and try to give their children principles in accordance with divine order — the king whom the Lord shall choose.

Saul was the Lord's choice as king. Not only did the Lord tell Samuel to anoint Saul, but the lot taken at Mizpeh fell upon Saul. Yet Saul's time of favor with God was to last only a short time. His victories would be few, and he would prove wholly inadequate to save Israel from most of their enemies. Why did the Lord choose Saul? Why did He not at once choose a David or a Solomon? Because the people were not ready. They would have rejected a wiser leader, while, except for a few "sons of Belial," they accepted Saul gladly. We have said that what young people demand is a consistent principle of action. There is only one such principle — the law of love — but they are not ready for it. We begin to understand and appreciate the law of love only after a lifetime of effort and experience. This may not seem to be so. We like to think we are acting from the law of love when we follow our natural good impulses, and many never outgrow this superficial idea of goodness. But the law of love is the law of divine love, which cannot be separated from divine wisdom. It has nothing to do with our natural impulses or with the outward appearance of things. The people accepted Saul gladly because of his external appearance of superiority. He stood head and shoulders above all the people. They had to learn by experience that he was not adequate to their needs.

Yet Saul had a measure of fitness for his office. He was to conquer some enemies. We cannot expect of young people the wisdom of experience. We can expect them to recognize the Lord and to try to do the Lord's will as they see it. They will inevitably at first judge by appearances. They will often be misled by specious arguments and apparent results. They do not like to wait for their results. Saul's size and power appeal to them. They must learn by experience — their own experience — in many cases. But we can help to prepare our children for states and experiences beyond their present knowledge, especially by means of these stories from the Word. The Lord did this with His disciples: "And now I have told you before it come to pass, that when it is come to pass, ye might believe." Saul represents divine truth in a natural and external form, suited to the needs and comprehension of certain states through which we all pass in youth and in which we sometimes remain long after we should have grown wiser. "By a king, or by the royalty which belonged to Saul, is signified Divine truth in respect to protection and judgment." (@AC 10540[7]).

