
=== Intermediate

This class will be interested in the correspondence of the donkey (remind them of the lesson on Balaam) and will be able to see what is meant by Saul's being called while he was hunting for his father's donkeys. Nothing in the Word is there by chance. Everything fits in when we see the internal meaning. The general meaning of Saul is not hard to teach to young people of this age.

In chapter 8 of 1 Samuel we learned that when Samuel was old, his sons — just as Eli's had done — became corrupt, and that the people became dissatisfied. So they came to Samuel, whose home was still at Ramah, and asked him to give them a king. They said they wanted a king so that they might be like all the other nations. A king represents truth ruling. A priest represents love. Samuel was a judge, but he was also a priest, so Samuel's government of the land pictures a state in which we are directed primarily by love to the Lord. If you think of this, you will understand what is meant by 1 Samuel 8:6-9. The Lord always leaves us free to choose our own way, but He does everything He can to protect and direct us.

Israel's desire for a king pictures our desire to choose our own ruling principle. We want to do right, but we want to understand why it is right and not merely to do as someone else — even the Lord — tells us to do. We think we are quite capable of judging. But the truth is that it takes many years of experience to become really wise. At first we judge according to appearances. The way which looks best on the face of it we believe to be best. We don't like to wait for results. We don't like to study a problem more deeply to see what really will be the best solution in the long run.

Saul pictures this first superficial standard of judgment. When he first came to Samuel, he was looking for his father's donkeys which had been lost. The donkey pictures our "natural" reason, our common sense. It is a very sure—footed animal but very stubborn, and not at all willing to be guided. Saul's search for his father's donkeys pictures our attempts to find a "common—sense" solution of our problems, one which will bring some immediate change in things, without waiting to see whether or not the change will really be for the better.

The people liked Saul for his apparent strength and size — they could "look up" to him literally, for he stood head and shoulders above everyone else. This is the way our own reason looks to us when we are young. We simply can't see how the world could fail to improve if others would do what we think they should.

The Lord really chose Saul, first by telling Samuel to anoint him, and then by governing the lots which the people cast. The Lord knew Saul's weaknesses, but he knew that Saul was the only kind of king the people would accept and follow until they had had more experience. In the same way He lets us try out our own judgment and do the things that seem to us right when we are young men and women, even though He knows our judgment is faulty.

The anointing of Saul by Samuel pictures the fact that in this first effort to set up a ruling principle there is a genuine desire to do right. Oil represents love. Any principle which is worthy to govern our lives even for a time must have love in it. If it has not, it is merely the old selfish desire to have our own way. Saul represents a genuine desire to serve the Lord and the neighbor, although not a wholly wise one. In all our first attempts to work out our lives for ourselves, we must be sure that our basic wish is to do good.

Most young people do want to do right. Their ideals are high. They want to do great things in the world for others as well as for themselves. And they mean to serve the Lord. Their ideals and enthusiasm are needed, and can be a great help to everyone so long as they do not assume that they are wise enough to direct affairs. So do not hesitate to offer your help and to try to "get into things" in your church as well as in other fields of activity. But try to be willing to listen to advice, remembering that real wisdom is acquired only by long and patient effort. Saul's reign is a picture of the time of eager and impetuous youth, and we shall see that he won some victories but also made some very serious mistakes.

