
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors may like to trace on a map the wanderings of Saul and his servant in search of the donkeys. Stress the humility of Saul at the start, and the Lord's way of reassuring him and leading him to accept his office. Discuss the casting of lots and the part the Lord played in the choice of Saul. The Juniors also need the lesson concerning Saul's appearance.

---
Samuel was recognized as the Lord's prophet, and when he grew up, he was accepted as Judge by all the people. He served faithfully for many years, always obeying the Lord. But when he was old, he turned over some of his duties to his sons. They were not good men, but were greedy for money, and took bribes and did not judge the people justly. So finally the people asked Samuel to give them a king who would rule them as the other nations were ruled. Samuel was reluctant, but the Lord told him to let the people have their way, and that He would show Samuel who was to be their first king.

Who was this first king of Israel?

From what tribe was he?

What did he look like?

What was Saul doing when he first met Samuel?

We can see that the Lord was directing Saul's life. But Saul had to have some preparation before he was openly proclaimed king. He was very humble at first, for when Samuel told him he had been chosen, he answered that his tribe was the smallest in Israel and he himself the least in his tribe. After Samuel anointed him, the Lord gave him several unusual experiences to prove to him that he had really been chosen. We read about these in the first part of chapter 10. The Lord's providence is over each one of us just as much as it was over Saul. Each one of us was created to fill a particular place and to do some special work for the Lord, and nothing happens to us which cannot in some way help to prepare us for this work, if we use our experiences rightly.

Where did Samuel call the people together?

How was Saul chosen this time?

Samuel, of course, knew on whom the lot would fall, but all the people had to see for themselves that the Lord's choice was Saul. Saul knew also, and the fact that he hid himself showed that he was still in a humble frame of mind and thought himself unworthy of so high an office.

Why were the people pleased with Saul?

We shall find, however, that Saul was not as big a man inside as he was on the outside, and that his humility did not last; but the people did not know this. Do we ever, like the Israelites, judge things by their outward appearance without making the effort to look into them more deeply?

Even today kings are still consecrated by anointing, that is, by pouring oil on their heads. It is a very old custom and it comes from the knowledge of correspondence which the ancient peoples had from the Ancient Word. Oil is the symbol of love, and Samuel's act was a sign that Saul must rule from a love of serving the Lord and the neighbor. If everyone who had power used it with this love in his heart, the world would be a different kind of place.

