
=== Notes for Parents

We have studied the history of Israel under several types of government. First they looked for direction to the patriarchs — Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Then for a long time they were slaves in Egypt. Then they followed the two great leaders Moses and Joshua. During the period of the Judges we saw that they had no single ruler or leader, but looked to themselves and sought leadership only when they were in trouble. Most of the Judges were local and temporary leaders. Then came the last Judge — Samuel — who, because he proved to be the Lord's chosen prophet, was eventually looked to for direction by all the people.

Samuel judged the land for many years and was always wise and just and wholly faithful to the Lord. But when he grew old, he turned over some of his duties to his sons, who abused their power. Then, as we learned in chapter 8, the people became dissatisfied and asked Samuel to give them a king so that they might be like other nations.

Samuel was unhappy, for he felt that the people were forgetting all that he had done for them, but the Lord told him to let them have their king and that, because Samuel was known to be the Lord's prophet, it was really the Lord whom the people had rejected. And the Lord promised to show Samuel who should be king. Our lesson this time tells us how Saul was brought to Samuel, how Samuel first proved to Saul that the Lord had really chosen him, and then how the people were led to recognize and accept Saul as their first king.

We need to notice the reason why the people accepted Saul so willingly: "he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward." In other words, they judged him by his appearance. Is not this the common experience of all of us when we first look for a general principle to direct our lives? We judge by appearances. We know that young adults sometimes feel that they have the answers to everything: if only other people would do as they think they should, the world would be all right. They see only the surface of things and have not enough experience to recognize the deeper issues and forces involved and to take account of them. They are "well—meaning," eager, and energetic, but they are not yet wise.

Older people, however, should have patience with this state.

There is a lesson for us all in our story. The Lord chose Saul. He knew that the people were not ready to accept and follow a really wise leader. They had proved it by turning against Samuel. They had to be allowed to learn by experience. So do our young people when they reject wise advice.

