
=== Senior

In this class dwell especially on the meaning of the people's asking for a king and read Samuel's description of what a king would be like (1 Samuel 8:10-18). This is a picture of what truth as a ruler does to our lives if we leave out love. The discussion of this and of the meaning of Saul as the first king will bring out questions and illustrations.

The story of Saul contains a lesson which is much needed both by us as individuals and by the world. We often hear it said that youth is the hope of the world, and of course in one sense it is. Those who are young now are the ones who will later control the destiny of the world. This is true of every new generation. But there sometimes seems to be a tendency to imagine that it is the young people who should be in control now. People — especially young people — say, "Look what a mess the older people have made of things! Youth has ideals; youth has energy. Let the young people take over the reins, and everything will be better." The story of Saul's reign over Israel is the Lord's answer to this mistaken idea.

In our individual lives we all go through the stage — from twenty to thirty perhaps — when we think we know how everything should be done. It seems to us so simple. If everyone would do as we suggest, the world's problems would be solved. The Lord knows, as wise parents and older leaders know, that young people must go through this period, must have this experience. And the ideals and energy and dissatisfaction of youth are needed to keep things stirred up, to keep us from settling down in old ways, to keep our minds open to change. But the judgment of youth is hasty and superficial. It is apt to ignore the deep problems presented by human nature in every situation, individual or social. It assumes that conditions can be corrected quickly by one or another external method, without the long, slow process of regenerating individuals.

That is, the first ruler we choose as young adults is chosen on the basis of external appearance — it is apparent rather than genuine truth, truth as our "natural rational" sees it. This is Saul as king of Israel. When Saul first came to Samuel, he was hunting for his father's donkeys, which had been lost. The donkey, sure—footed but stubborn, represents the natural reason, sometimes called "common sense." When we are young, we exalt common sense — as we see it — and look for what we consider the obvious solutions for our problems. We jump at any solution which seems to make sense. We have no patience with anyone who suggests that our solutions may not in the long run prove really practical. They promise quick results; so they look good to us. The people welcomed Saul as king because of his appearance — he stood head and shoulders above everyone else.

Saul "meant well." Samuel, at the Lord's command, anointed him. Anointing oil is a symbol of consecration by divine love. Saul entered upon the kingship knowing that he was dedicated to the Lord's service and under obligation to obey the Lord's commands. Youth also means well and intends to serve the Lord. (There are vicious young people as there are vicious adults, but they are a very small percentage of the whole.) The Lord chose Saul as Israel's first king because He knew the state of the people and that they were not prepared to recognize and follow a wiser leader at this time. We shall find that Saul was to lose his humility very soon with his first victory — and was to make many mistakes and lose his right to rule because he came to think he knew better than Samuel, the Lord's prophet. In much the same way young people, if given control, often make mistakes and learn by hard experience that lasting leadership must be based on deeper principles and more wisdom. And wisdom comes only slowly.

