The Book of Jonah

from the book

Minor Prophets: Major Messages

by Rev. George McCurdy

Contents

How To Use This Study Guide......................................................................................................... 4

Introduction........................................................................................................................................... 5

The Author......................................................................................................................................... 8

Chapter Two........................................................................................................................................ 11

Jonah 1:1-3...................................................................................................................................... 11

Jonah 1:4-6...................................................................................................................................... 15

Jonah 1:7-9...................................................................................................................................... 19

Jonah 1:10-13................................................................................................................................ 26

Jonah 1:14-16................................................................................................................................ 32

Chapter Two........................................................................................................................................ 38

Jonah 1:17....................................................................................................................................... 38

Jonah 2:1-10................................................................................................................................... 38

Chapter Three..................................................................................................................................... 47

Jonah 3:1-10................................................................................................................................... 47

Chapter Four....................................................................................................................................... 54

Jonah 4:1-11................................................................................................................................... 54

Epilogue: A Summary of the Four Chapters of Jonah..........................................................60

Chapter One.................................................................................................................................... 60

Chapter Two................................................................................................................................... 60

Chapter Three................................................................................................................................ 60

Chapter Four.................................................................................................................................. 60

2

3

How To Use This Study Guide

1. A slow unhurried reading of Jonah is essential. Reading the chapter before 
looking at the notes, while working with the notes, and after finishing with 
the notes will give each researcher a powerful sense of the series of meanings
within each chapter. It is important to be comfortable with all the names and 
places in the prophecy and to understand the announcements the prophet 
makes on behalf of the Lord. When possible, historical information will be 
included in the notes to increase reading comprehension and enhance 
application.

2. Our study of each chapter of Jonah will begin with quotes from a work of the 
Writings called Summary Exposition of the Prophets and Psalms. This work 
includes a verse-by-verse overview of all four chapters of Jonah that provide 
general information about the internal sense. Our research will help move us 
from the generals to the particulars of the internal sense.

3. Another important reference tool is Searle’s General Index to Swedenborg’s 
Scripture Quotations. This reference is used to find passages in the Writings 
where a verse(s) from the Word is either explained specifically or used to 
illustrate a doctrinal point that we can use in our study. There is also another 
use of this work. As we study, each researcher will be led by the Lord’s 
Providence in myriad ways, according to specific needs or states. Knowing 
how to use this book will help each of us to explore relevant topics and look 
up related passages to increase our knowledge of the three-fold Word.
4. You will soon discover that not every verse, word, name, etc. is directly 
quoted in the Writings. But there are often other references to the same 
name, place, or thing in the explanation of a different verse of the Word. The 
hope is that reflection on these other doctrinal explanations will help us see 
possible applications to our study of Jonah. We will need to use "derived 
doctrine" often. Please don’t run away from this maligned term. If we use it 
properly and admit openly that it is derived doctrine, we bring no harm to the
internal sense.

5. Keep some kind of notebook handy during your study times. Write out 

insights, questions, and any summaries you find helpful in organizing your 
thoughts about each chapter. The goal of this study guide is not to give a 
detailed summary of the internal sense but to start each researcher’s quest 
for deeper insight.

6. At the end of each chapter in the study guide, you will find a study review. 
The review includes a summary of each section to help you reinforce and 
build on your understanding of several of the key points.

7. Begin each study unit with a devotional prayer asking the Lord to guide and 
direct your thoughts. Certainly beginning in this sphere has the power to 
inspire and open our minds with a higher spiritual priority that will keep us 
in the company of the Lord’s angels. As the Writings teach, we must seek to 
love truth for truth’s sake. Such an approach will free each reader from 

4

preconceived ideas that might limit his or her ability to "see" the intent and 
message of the Lord’s Word.

Introduction

Say the name Jonah and what other word quickly comes to mind?

The number one answer would most likely be whale. Sunday school materials, 
children’s movies, and cartoons show a whale rescuing the drowning Jonah. But in 
the adult world outside the New Church, many articles stoutly urge us to eliminate 
the word "whale" and substitute the words "sea creature," "special fish," or "special 
leviathan monster." To the authors of these articles, holding onto the word "whale" is
not only laughable but reduces the Word to absurdity and makes its message 
vulnerable to other scientific difficulties. For instance, critics ask, how could Jonah 
have survived three days and three nights in the belly of a whale? Would he not have 
been severely "bleached" by the digestive juices of the whale, fish, or sea monster? 
Wouldn’t his air supply have been severely threatened if not eliminated in the belly 
of the whale? With the great feeding cycle of whales and the repeated intake of 
water, how could Jonah have had time to compose a reflective and repentant prayer 
to the Lord?

If we were to research denominational beliefs regarding Jonah being swallowed by a 
whale, we would soon discover that this was, and is, a hot doctrinal issue. For the 
fundamentalist, it is one of the litmus tests used to expose dangerously liberal 
biblical scholarship. One denomination (the Lutheran Missouri Synod) suffered a 
painful schism within its membership over the whale question. Those holding the 
fundamental view insisted it was a whale. The Word says it happened, and Jesus 
referenced Jonah in the belly of the whale, so there should be no question about its 
accuracy. Proponents of the liberal view could not tolerate or support that doctrinal 
insistence. The result was a split in their organization.

George Adam Smith, considered a liberal Biblical scholar, offers this cautionary 
argument: "We sin against the spirit of the book [Jonah] in trying to take it as real 
history." Another writer, R.H. Pfeiffer, states, "It is fiction—a short story with a moral
—like the book of Ruth…or the stories about Daniel…[Jonah] is a perfectly good 
short story—with a beginning, a middle, and an end…[the author of Jonah] 
composed a charming story intended to teach a lesson…that Jehovah’s loving-
kindness and compassion are not restricted to the Jews but [are offered] to the 
heathen as well." (Introduction to the Old Testament, pages 587-588.)

J.M.P. Smith is quoted in the Encyclopedia of Religion as saying: "…Jonah is religious 
fiction, with the key happenings historically impossible…This book is allegory…
[Jonah’s] three days [in the belly of the whale] symbolize the three [Jewish] exiles…
This satire on prevalent beliefs is one of the greatest, yet one of the most 
misunderstood books in the Bible."

5

Raymond Calkins in his book, The Modern Message of the Minor Prophets, writes: 
"[Jonah]…is not literal history—it is not a short story but an allegory, similar to the 
Parables of Jesus." Calkins, on page 168 of his book, illustrates this with his list of 
allegorical meanings:

Jonah represents the people of Israel.


 Nineveh represents the whole heathen world.
 The stormy sea represents the confusion in the Hebrew mind.
 The tossing sea represents, or illustrates, the threat that the heathen world 

was ready to engulf Israel.

 The sea monster swallowing Jonah represents the misfortunes that would 

befall the disobedient people of God.

 The whale disgorging Jonah describes the disaster of the Babylonian exile 

and the subsequent return of the people to Jerusalem.

Do we have any helpful doctrinal teachings in the New Church that might clear up 
the controversial "whale" question? As we might expect, the first three passages 
cited below highlight the need to pay attention to the spiritual sense (internal sense)
of the word "whale."







"‘Fishes,’…signify memory knowledges, now animated by faith from the Lord, 
and thus alive. ‘Whales’ signify their general principles, in subordination to 
which, and from which, are the particulars; for there is nothing in the 
universe that is not under some general principle, as a means that it may 
exist and subsist. ‘Whales,’ or ‘great fishes,’ are sometimes mentioned by the 
Prophets, and they signify the generals of memory-knowledges." (Arcana 
Coelestia [AC] 42)
"…that Jonah’s being in the whale three days and three nights represented 
that the Lord would thus be in the heart of the earth; and thus these words of 
Jonah describe the Lord’s direful temptations." (More of this passage will be 
cited when we look at Jonah 2:2-3, 5-6.) (Apocalypse Explained [AE] 538 [11])
"…particulars [in the book of Jonah] are historical, and yet prophetical, 
involving and representing such arcana, as do all the other historicals of the 
Word." (AC 1188 [2])

But then we find a startling, thought-provoking passage in the work called Spiritual 
Experiences (SE) that brings us full circle to the literal sense of the "whale" 
swallowing Jonah. Consider the impact of this quote:



"…as that Jonah was swallowed by a whale, which actually happened in the 
world; as also did the miracles of Egypt, and many other [necessary effects] 
called miracles." (SE 1391, written March 15, 1748)

For effect, let me highlight that passage once again so we get the crux of what is said 
in SE 1391:

6

"Jonah WAS swallowed by a whale, which ACTUALLY happened in the world; AS
ALSO DID THE MIRACLES OF EGYPT, and many other [necessary effects] called 
miracles."

What is this passage calling us to look at before making up our minds about the 
reality of a whale swallowing Jonah? As you look over the list of miracles below, ask 
yourself this question: Why do we find it easy to believe some miracles in the Word 
and yet doubtfully question others? Do we get to pick and choose what the Lord can 
and cannot do? Divine miracles don’t seem to follow fixed order so they are called 
into question. But we must allow that what is order to the Lord goes infinitely 
beyond our finite comprehension of order. He knows things we will never know. So 
let’s look at some of the miracles the children of Israel benefited from while in Egypt 
and on the way to the Promised Land:

 Moses saw the burning bush, and the fire did not consume the bush.
 Aaron’s rod cast before Pharaoh turned into a snake.
 Aaron’s snake (rod) ate the snakes produced by Pharaoh’s sorcerers.
 The waters of the Nile turned into blood.
 Egypt suffered plagues of frogs, flies, murrain, boils, hail, locusts, darkness, 

and death of the firstborn.

 The Israelites were saved by the parting of the Red Sea.
 The Lord allowed Moses to heal the bitter waters of Marah.
 The Lord sent manna and quail. (Please note that these gifts were 

miraculously given for forty years.) See Exodus 16:35.

 The Israelites wore clothes and sandals that did not wear out for forty years. 

See Deuteronomy 8:4.

 The Lord allowed Moses to bring water from a smitten rock.
 Aaron’s rod grew buds like a living tree.
 The Lord used a brazen serpent to heal the people.

How many more miracles might we cite from Genesis to Revelation? Can we verify 
the Lord walking on water or turning water into wine? How did He take five loaves 
and two fish and multiply them so that 5,000 were fed with twelve full baskets left 
over? Can we validate something as simple as the cruse of oil that never ran out or as
amazing as the fantastic healing of the blind, sick, palsied, deaf, and dumb, and the 
raising of the dead? Do we risk trivializing or making the Word laughable if we 
believe that any, or all, of these things ACTUALLY happened? Do we fear the ridicule 
of science because miracles seem beyond the reach of logical scientific explanation? 
If the Lord could furnish manna and quail for forty years; if the Lord could keep 
clothing from wearing out for forty years, could He not cause a whale, or a special 
fish, to swallow Jonah? Are any of these miracles beyond His power?

Finding a "whale" answer in Spiritual Experiences will cause some New Church 
people to doubt its appropriateness as a doctrine. But before dismissing it, let its 
powerful perspective work for a few minutes in your mind. It seems to put the 

7

"Jonah was swallowed by a whale" question into a positive framework for us to find 
an answer. What do you think? Does SE 1391 resolve the whale issue for you?

Maybe using the words "special fish" or "great fish" would be a better translation of 
the original Hebrew word than "whale." But to dismiss the possibility of Jonah being 
miraculously swallowed by a special fish seems to be an error that leads to falsity. To
deny God’s power to actually perform this miracle makes Him small and limits His 
Infinite Power and Knowledge. Matthew 19:26 states well what needs to be our 
attitude toward miracles: "…with God all things are possible."

As we leave the question of Jonah and the whale, please note how AC 1188 [2] states 
that the book of Jonah deals with both actual history and correspondential 
(allegorical) meanings. Let’s say it again: The Book of Jonah is both historical and 
prophetical. The Book of Jonah is not the creative story of a human author. It is a 
Divine lesson plan of the Lord’s that holds infinite truths to be studied forever. These
truths will never be exhausted. Angels will thrill with the story of the whale, special 
fish, or great fish, forever. To them, the book of Jonah will not be laughable or absurd.
Nor will they worry about scientific difficulties or objections. They don’t see or read 
the natural names and places. Instead, they see the spiritual meaning with its 
important illustrations and applications to their lives and uses. They see the Word of
the Lord as a resplendent array of colors and beauty. The truths of the Word are like 
shining stars in the heavens.

THE AUTHOR

What do we know about a man named Jonah? In II Kings 14:25, we read: "He 
restored the territory of Israel from the entrance of Hamath to the Sea of the Arabah,
according to the word of the Lord God of Israel, which He had spoken through His 
servant Jonah the son of Amittai, the prophet who was from Gath Hepher."

 Not much is known about this obscure Galilean prophet named Jonah. The 
Word identifies him as a counselor for King Jeroboam II. This would place 
him in the 786-746 BC time period.
Scholars set the date for the Book of Jonah much later, in the postexilic 
timetable of Israel’s history, because he (the unknown author) appears to be 
influenced by teachings found in Jeremiah and Isaiah. The real Jonah would 
not have been alive at the time of Jeremiah and Isaiah.



 Based on this logic, many believe the author of Jonah is an unknown author 
who chose to adopt the voice of this obscure prophet to champion his 
opposition to Israel’s "racial exclusiveness, narrow nationalism, and religious 
intolerance…" (The Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible, page 964.)

 The prophet Jonah is different from other prophets in that he is never called a

prophet in the book attributed to him. Unlike other prophets, there are 
almost no "oracles" given through him.

8

 Unlike other prophets, Jonah is sent to preach to a foreign people. The other 
prophets preached against foreign nations; they were always sent to preach 
to Israel.

Should we agree with scholars that the book of Jonah had to be written by an 
unknown author? Are we to agree that if words or phrases cited in the book of Jonah
sound as if they were borrowed from Jeremiah or Isaiah that this conclusively 
proves Jonah had to be written during postexilic times?

Truth is not the creation of human prudence. All truth originates in the Lord. We 
have no "original" thoughts. The prophets were inspired to deliver the words of the 
Lord, not their own words. Why do we have to assume Jonah was influenced by 
Jeremiah or Isaiah? Couldn’t the Lord have given Jonah a similar view of His truth? It 
seems foolish to limit teachings to people, dates, and world events. Nor does it seem 
prudent to ascribe ownership of any of the Lord’s truths to a specific prophet. 
Things written in the Psalms by David were repeated verbatim by the Lord. Do we 
bother ourselves by who "said it first"?

As for saying Jonah could not have been alive during Jeremiah and Isaiah’s times, are
we on solid ground with this assumption? Have we forgotten the longevity of 
Methuselah, Abraham, Moses, and other Biblical patriarchs? Scholarship is a 
wonderful tool, but scholarly researchers must remain humble and open to what the
Lord can and will do with His servants. If the Divine chose to extend the longevity of 
Jonah, it would have been done regardless of research findings. Let’s close this whole
question of "whale," "laughable," "embarrassing conclusion," and all other doubts of 
the historical and prophetic debate with this quote from the Arcana:

"What a man believes from authority belongs to others in himself, and is not his 
own; and what is merely believed from this source by virtue of confirmation appears
after confirmation as truth, even although it is false; as can be very plainly seen from
the faith of every religion, and from the variety of this in the whole world." (AC 
10124 [3])

The point of this quote seems to be that we should keep an open mind to the 
spiritual sense, in this case while reading the Book of Jonah. Paul, in II Corinthians 
3:6, reminded his readers that the written letter of the Word kills but the spirit gives 
life. This is the message of the New Church, too. Don’t get pulled into the debates of 
liberal versus conservative theology. Instead, we need to remain deeply committed 
to the Lord’s guiding influx. We need to supplicate and rely on the Lord’s help to find
and see the spiritual sense. This is what the Lord intends for angels and humanity: 
To be in His truth, to be lead by His truth, and to strive to work for His truth.

With this dedication in mind, let’s turn now to the historical and prophetical sense of
the Book of Jonah and read with a degree of inspired awe and excitement. Like the 
angels, we need to look beyond the limitations of the literal sense so we can walk 
among the vast applications of the Lord’s spiritual sense. After all, the Word is a 

9

story about the life of the Lord and it is a story about our regeneration. Every letter, 
comma, period, and every jot and tittle holds this invitation: "O taste and see that 
the Lord is good!" (Psalm 34:8)

10

Chapter Two

JONAH 1:1-3

"Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying, ‘Arise, go to 
Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it; for their wickedness has come up 
before Me.’ But Jonah arose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord. He went 
down to Joppa, and found a ship going to Tarshish; so he paid the fare, and went down 
into it, to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord."

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"Those who were of the Jewish nation were commanded to teach the Word to 
the nations round about, but they would not, and thus they kept the Word 
among themselves alone."

Derived Doctrine

"Now the word of the Lord came…"



"Now" carries the meaning of presently, today, as soon as possible, and 
immediately. In some instances, it is used in a sentence as an admonition. AC 
2838 informs us that "now" or "this day" signifies the "perpetuity and 
eternity of a state." The Word of the Lord is not for a passing moment. The 
Word is given for eternal uses.

 This phrase also calls our attention to the true Source of the prophecy—the 
Lord. His word signifies communication and confirmation. (AC 7406) His 
words signify a unity of doctrine (a unity of good and truth). (AC 1288)
 To "come" (came) signifies to perceive or receive the Lord into the intellect.

(AC 2513) It also signifies judgment (AC 1311) and a progression from what is
external to what is internal. (AC 5202)

"…Jonah the son of Amittai…"

 The name Jonah means "dove." A "dove" represents the truths and goods of 
faith with one who is to be regenerated. (AC 870) Also recall that a "dove" 
descended at the Lord’s baptism, and these words were heard: "This is My 
beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." (Matthew 3:17)
Jonah signifies his nation in its self-love and falsities and reflects its 
unwillingness to share the spiritual things of the Lord. (AE 401 [36])



11



Jonah "prophetically" describes the Lord’s temptations against the hells. (AC 
1691 [5] and AE 538 [11])
Jonah signifies the complete glorification of the Lord’s humanity. (AE 706 [6])


 Amittai’s lineage can be traced to the tribe of Zebulon. His name means 

"truth." Let’s follow a bit of derived doctrine with the following teachings:
 Zebulon signifies, in the highest sense, the Lord’s Divine Human and in the 
spiritual sense the heavenly marriage of good and truth. (AC 3960-61)
 Can we safely bring these teachings with us when we consider the words 

"son of Amittai" to mean that Jonah represents the "spiritual progeny" of such
truths?

"Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry out against it…"

 AC 3050 and AC 5605 explain that "arise and go" signifies a call to elevate the 

external thoughts to be in harmony with more interior things.

 AC 1612 describes the idea of arising to mean surveying the heavenly 









kingdom. Such an elevation would bring one into a state of affection and 
charity for the Lord and the neighbor. (AC 2326)
"Nineveh" signifies the falsities of doctrinal things derived from reasoning 
that contrives and lead to an unenlightened understanding. (AC 1184 and AC 
1188 [2])
"…the great city" signifies looking at everything doctrinal or heretical. (AC 
402) In Nineveh’s case, it would appear they had a "great" number of things 
that were leading them to destruction. Nota Bene: Think for a moment about 
the layout of a city. All its streets are organized so that they will lead to some 
house, business, library, hospital, church, etc. Therefore, this passage 
illustrates the great devastation or errors the inhabitants of this "spiritual" 
city were following. Human doctrinal errors were powerfully influencing and 
misleading them in every aspect of their spiritual lives.
"…cry out against it…" makes sense in light of the above concept. Nineveh’s 
way of thinking from doctrine was misleading the people, and they had to 
change to allow repentance, reformation, and regeneration to come into their
hearts.
"…for their wickedness has come up before Me." Without enlightenment, one 
might think this "coming up before Me" was like a sudden or unexpected 
revelation to the Lord. The Lord saw it and knew that it would happen before 
they falsified the truth. His Providence sought to bend and moderate all 
things to good. In reality, it was now time for Nineveh to come up before Him 
to see what falsity they were following.

"But Jonah arose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord."

 Tarshish signifies doctrinal ritual. It represents external worship. (AC 

1152)Are we to picture Jonah justifying his flight from the call of the Lord by 
the precedence of traditional "chosen race" thinking? Certainly, passages 

12

(fallaciously understood) from the literal sense must have come to his mind 
as a validation for running away.

 Apocalypse Revealed (AR) 796 defines what "from the presence of the Lord" 

might mean. Let’s note "presence" in the positive sense. "The 
acknowledgment and worship of the Lord, and the reading of the Word, 
cause the presence of the Lord… these two together with a life according to 
His commandments effect conjunction with Him." This teaching opens a way 
for us to see what Jonah’s flight from the presence of the Lord meant 
regarding the Word and his acknowledgment of the Lord.

"He went down to Joppa, and found a ship going to Tarshish…"

 We have no direct teaching to help us with the representation of Joppa. We do
know the word "Joppa" means "beauty" or "beautiful." Joppa is located thirty-
five miles northwest of Jerusalem.
In biblical times, Joppa was a small, attractive seaport with a natural 
breakwater of rocks that were parallel to the coastline, somewhat like a cape. 
We make mention of this because it created a kind of haven for the boats to 
enter and drop anchor in security.



 We do have a correspondence for "sea." It represents a collection of 



knowledges and scientifics. (AC 28)
"To go toward the sea" signifies the choice to follow scientifics because a sea 
represents a collection of them. (AC 2702 [15])

 A port is a haven for ships. The Writings teach that a haven signifies the state 

where memory-knowledges terminate and begin, and where there are 
doctrinal things from the Word. (AC 6384 and 6385)

 To find a ship in the positive sense signifies looking for knowledges of good 



and truth from the Word that will serve for the uses of life. (AR 406)
Jonah was headed for Tarshish so we get the hint that he wanted to be in a 
place where "external worship prevailed…" (AC 1152) Joppa, the beautiful, 
seems to imply that Jonah wanted something of external reasoning to appear 
attractive and acceptable to him and his peers. The interests and mission of 
the Lord were not part of his search for a ship.

"… so he paid the fare, and went down into [the ship]…"

 To "pay" in the negative sense signifies to offer a substitute in place of the 

former. (AC 9186)

 The word "pay" in Swedenborg’s Concordance is identified with the word 



"hang." We read that hanging is an attempt to remain between evil and good.
(AC 2410)
"Went" is the past tense of "go." Can we take from this (past tense) a hint that 
what is happening in the present is a result of how Jonah lived, progressed, 
and thought in the past?

13



Jonah’s going down into the ship seems to indicate that a spiritual downfall 
or calamitous state was overtaking him.

"…to go with them to Tarshish from the presence of the Lord."

 The "them" in this verse means the ship’s crew, a group of men, we will see 

later, who worshiped all sorts of gods. It seems interesting to note that Jonah 
was called to go save Nineveh. This call he deemed to be contrary to his faith. 
Nineveh was full of gentiles. On the other hand, he used "them" (gentiles) to 
save himself from the Lord. Isn’t life full of inconsistencies and paradoxes?

 Going toward Tarshish remember is a movement toward a place where 

external worship prevails. Such an external worship leads one away from the 
"presence of the Lord."

Putting It All Together

"Those who were of the Jewish nation were commanded to teach the Word to the 
nations round about, but they would not, and thus they kept the Word among 
themselves alone." (P&P)

With this guiding doctrine, we can pull the meaning of Jonah’s flight from "the 
presence of the Lord" to a finer point. Jonah, or the people of Israel, felt they knew 
better than the Lord what was to be done with the Word and who should have it. 
This is a pretty heavy point to mull over in our hearts and minds. The Lord loves 
everyone. He has no favorites. He wants the "good news" of His Word to reach all 
people. The care for souls and a life that leads to charity is a "mission statement" the 
church needs to have as its collective goal. Exclusiveness is not a right of birth or the 
merit of a chosen people.

Certainly, the New Church has a mission to perform. We need to not only live the life 
of our doctrines but also to share our gifts with the "nations round about." The 
message here is that we should not seek out a beautiful (Joppa) "safe haven" to avoid
"presence." Please consider again that passage from AR 796 regarding the meaning 
of "presence." How do we stay in the presence of the Lord? "…the acknowledgment 
and worship of the Lord and the reading of the Word, [such spiritual values] cause 
the presence of the Lord…"

To do less than this is an attempt to "pay" a fare that leads to making substitutions 
or trying to walk a fine line between good and evil. Such a philosophy of life will 
indeed have us "go to the very bottom" of the ship of scientific reasoning and out of 
the light of the Lord’s sun.

14

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Jonah 1:1-3.

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. How do you think we, as a church, can profit from this lesson about 

withholding the Word from the nations round about?

2. Do you see any signs that we try to seek beautiful "safe havens" when it 

comes to telling the story of the Lord’s Second Coming?

3. What "excuses" can you recall that Jonah might have used to run away from 
his mission? Try to pick or mention those that might have appeared valid to 
Israel.

4. How are we doing with the task of keeping the Lord’s "presence" in the 

church? This question is not a chance to criticize so much as a chance to take 
inventory.

5. What new insights were you able to glean from this section of study?
6. Paradoxes are interesting to consider. Jonah’s rejection of the gentiles and 

7.

then his personal use of the gentiles seem interestingly inconsistent, and yet I
am sure we do similar things all the time. How can we reflect on this paradox 
and learn from it?
Jonah fleeing toward Tarshish indicated that he elected to pursue "external 
forms of ritual." There seems to be a lively debate within our church 
regarding "traditional" versus "contemporary" worship, or a service that 
combines elements of both. What is useful about the various types of worship
services? When is this debate healthy or unhealthy? In some cases, it seems 
to foster an "us" against "them" feeling. What might resolve this in a way that 
keeps us from pulling away from one another or keeping the Word from 
anyone?

JONAH 1:4-6

"But the Lord sent out a great wind on the sea, and there was a mighty tempest on the 
sea, so that the ship was about to be broken up. Then the mariners were afraid; and 
every man cried out to his god, and threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea, 
to lighten the load. But Jonah had gone down into the lowest parts of the ship, had lain 
down, and was fast asleep. So the captain came to him, and said to him, ‘what do you 
mean, sleeper? Arise, call on your God; perhaps your God will consider us, so that we 
may not perish."

15

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"Knowledges (cognitions) began to perish with them, and yet they lived 
unconcernedly."

Derived Doctrine

"…the Lord sent out a great wind on the sea…"





"Great" signifies the things of affection and love, and of thought and faith. (AR
656)
"Wind" signifies the dispersion of falsities. (AC 842, 7682) "Wind" signifies 
the emptiness of mere (lifeless or useless) doctrine. (AE 811)

 The Lord sending the wind on the sea is not an act of vindictiveness but an 
act of love. He wants to clear the mind and our memory-knowledges of 
falsities and misconceptions. We need to hold this picture in our hearts 
because the hells try to convince us that the Lord is aloof or indifferent to our
spiritual state or welfare.

"…there was a mighty tempest on the sea…"







"Mighty" in the positive sense signifies the omnipotence of the Lord and His 
Divine Human. (AC 6425)
"Mighty" in the opposite sense signifies those who are consumed by self-love.
(AC 583)
"Tempest" signifies the dispersion of truths with the evil. (AE 419 
[22])"Tempest" also signifies the dispersion of falsities and evils, which 
destroy all the truths of the church. (AE 578 [17])

 Once again, we need to correct the appearance that the Lord is out of control 
and angry. Instead, it is a plan of love and wisdom to free the church and its 
resources so the church can effectively lead and protect those in the church.

"…so that the ship was about to be broken up."

 AE 514 [1-2] gives us information that we can use in this verse and others to 
follow. Ships signify doctrinal things; they represent the Word and doctrine 
from the Word. "A ship’s ‘planks’, ‘oars’ and ‘mast’ signify the various things of
which doctrine consists.

 Those who teach, lead, and rule, are meant by "‘pilot’ ‘ship-masters," 



"rowers," and "mariners," and the doctrinals themselves by its ‘wares,’…"
"…the ship was about to be broken up." This breaking of the ship had to 
happen. The Jewish Church was using the literal sense of the Word to favor its
external loves and tenets. Such a ship carried dangerous cargo. (AC 10492)

16

"Then the mariners were afraid; and every man cried out to his god…"


"Mariners" represent those who are leaders or teachers in the church.
 Being afraid can mean several things. It can represent a "holy fear," being 
afraid to do anything that would offend or hurt the Lord. In the opposite 
sense, fear can represent a fear of losing control. The Pharisees had this kind 
of fear when the Lord taught. They feared losing control over the people. In 
this context, I think we can assume that those in control of the church feared 
losing their place of authority and power.

 Crying out is a common theme in the Word, and it applies to any annoyance, 

noise, and occasion of disturbance. It can also signify accusation. (AC 
375)Every man crying "to his god" seems to represent that they turned to the 
reasoning of falsities and evils that resided in their selfhood. They had no 
clear vision of the Lord, so where else could these "mariners" turn but to 
their lifeless, errant, idolatrous prudence?

"… and they threw the cargo that was in the ship into the sea, to lighten the load."

 Do we need much help in seeing what is represented here?
 Cargo or wares signify the doctrinal things of the church. The mariners tried 
everything to lighten the load. The mariners made some choices as to what 
doctrines in their ship were expendable.

 Did their choices ease the problem?

"But Jonah had gone down into the lowest parts of the ship, had lain down, and was 
fast asleep."



Sleeping signifies being in an obscure state. (AC 5210) It is a state when 
inattentiveness allows an individual to be unaware of subtle falsities from 
hell entering the mind. Think about the parable the Lord gave about the 
enemy sowing seeds in the wheat field while the owner slept. (Matthew 
13:25)

 The lowest parts of the ship communicate something of the corporeal or 
worldly nature of people and their doctrine. One can almost picture the 
stagnant water swishing around between the supporting beams, fallen pieces
of cargo mixed in the water, and a stench of decaying debris. Are these things 
representative of what is meant by the "lowest parts of the ship"?

 The literal sense also conveys a lack of knowledge and concern about the 
great wind and tempest going on above the lowest parts of the ship. Could 
Jonah have been so unaware of the roll and pitching of the boat?

"So the captain came to [Jonah]…"

 A "captain" signifies memory-knowledges serving a person’s rational and 

disposed to make faith the essential of the church. (AC 2719) A captain is an 

17

officer. AC 8141 illustrates the point that falsities both in general and in 
particular need to be "reduced into order under generals." This is a subtle 
point that requires some thought. Are general evils easier to amend than 
particular evils?

"What do you mean, sleeper?"



Jonah is being asked what he thinks he is doing to be sleeping at such a time. 
The Lord uses questions to get the process of reflection working. AC 1913 
and2693 teach us that the Lord questions us so that comfort might come and 
give relief from trouble.

 The problem first must be identified. Sleeping has to be replaced with 

wakefulness. Darkness cannot continue. Bring the Lord into your life, and 
light comes to show what "you mean."

"Arise, call on your God; perhaps your God will consider us, so that we may not perish."

 A call to reconnect with the Lord. A call for reconciliation. A hope that the 
Lord’s mercy will save. As the "gentile" sailor said these words, there was 
doubt in his mind about the outcome. We don’t know how these words 
affected Jonah’s heart, but we can evaluate and discuss how they affect our 
hearts.

 Arising is the best way of sharing. Elevation of state is primary. Keeping our 
eyes on the Lord’s way gives a clearer perception of help and rescue from 
peril.

Putting It All Together

"Knowledges began to perish with them, and yet they lived unconcernedly." (P&P)

Human beings are unaware of the decline of truth. They are unconcerned about the 
inferior quality of their truth, but the Lord begins the process of dispersion and 
restoration. His wind, an act of love, comes with a great force and blows away the 
smog and deadly encircling falsity within the church. The Lord wants to cause the 
"mariners," the teachers and leaders, to feel fear. They need the Divine challenge to 
see clearly. They need to jettison the wares of falsity to lighten the load. How did the 
Lord say it? "Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden …take my yoke…and
learn from Me…My yoke is easy and My burden is light." (Matthew 11:28-30)

The Lord gives us the mirror of His Word to look at Jonah’s apathy. He gives us a 
contrast to illustrate this matter of sleeping while the ship is near its breaking point. 
The phrase "they lived unconcernedly" elicits a question that must be answered: Am 
I so lethargic that I don’t care about the well being of my doctrinal ship? Is my ship 
of doctrine sound, or is it at the point of breaking up?

18

The mariners did their best to lighten the load. Jonah slept through the beginning 
phase of the spiritual restoration. The Divine questions come to help and comfort. 
Sleeper, what do you think? Did your plan to escape the mission of the Lord work? 
Look at the disorder it brought. Turn to prayer. Petition your God. Can we attain 
"presence" with the Lord again?

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Jonah 1:4-6.

Questions to Stimulate Reflections

Many of the questions we need to consider may be found in the above summary 
section. Please consider them, and then ask yourself a question: Am I like or unlike 
Jonah with my choices in developing a presence with the Lord? Can you look back 
and see some tumultuous turning point in your life where you woke up in "the 
lowest parts of the ship"?

Please consider this point in your discussion. Over the years, actions that once 
shocked people have ceased to evoke the same concern. For example, look at the 
progression of adultery. In earlier times, it brought public disgrace. The word 
"adultery" sent shivers down people’s spines. Offenders were stoned, put in stocks, 
or branded for life. Today, we use softer words to describe adultery such as "an 
affair," "a tryst," or "a moment of intimacy between two consenting adults." 
Something seems to be lost. National indignation is no longer aroused by this 
offense. We carry many "wares" in the boat of scientific cognitions. Should any of 
them be jettisoned from the boat? Is the Lord’s mighty wind going to shake and 
break such a boat? Our church has a high incidence of divorces. I have no idea how 
many of these can be traced to adultery. In the courts, a "no fault" divorce is possible.
In contrast, the church can appear insensitive and behind the times when it does not
condone divorce. Do we go to safe havens to avoid issues? Do we "pay" to find 
substitutions? How will we help our children in our church schools so they can read 
and listen to Conjugial Love or discuss related issues without feeling a judgment is 
being made on a parent or family member?

JONAH 1:7-9

"And they said to one another, ‘come, let us cast lots, that we may know for whose 
cause this trouble has come upon us.’ So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah. Then 
they said to him, ‘Please tell us! For whose cause is this trouble upon us? What is your 
occupation? And where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people 
are you? So he said to them, ‘I am a Hebrew; and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, 
who made the sea and the dry land.’"

19

Passages From The Writings

P&P





"The nations perceived that the state of the church was perverted among 
themselves, because of the loss of knowledges (cognitions) among the Jews, 
and that the latter were unwilling to impart them to others outside of 
themselves."
"…nations were distinguished by the gods on whose name they called, and 
the Hebrew nation by Jehovah…." Jonah 1:9 is cited as an example of this 
teaching. See AC 1343 [2-4] for a fuller explanation.

Derived Doctrine

"And they said to one another…"







"They" refers to the "mariners" or "sailors" who represent those who teach, 
lead, and rule, or govern and are like "pilots" of a ship of doctrine. (AE 514 
[2])
"Sailors" also signify those in the church, who contribute and are called 
laymen. (AR 767)
Saying "one to another" signifies a desire for mutuality. (AC 8461) What does 
that mean? They were seeking an explanation that made sense of why the 
sudden wind and tumultuous seas were beating upon their ship.

"Come let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this trouble has come upon 
us."





In the Old Testament, drawing lots was a common method among the nations
of solving exceptional problems. In Numbers 26:55 and Joshua 14:2, "lots" 
were used to apportion newly conquered land among the tribes of Israel. Lots
were also drawn to detect a guilty person who broke laws (Joshua 7:14 and I 
Samuel 14:42) and to determine which goat should be sacrificed on the Day of
Atonement as the sin offering (Leviticus 16:7-10) Lots were cast to choose the
first king of Israel. (I Samuel 10:20-21) Priests, singers, and gatekeepers to 
serve in the temple were assigned or chosen by lot. (I Chronicles 24:5; 25:8, 
and 26:13) Casting lots also settled who would provide wood for the temple.
o Nota Bene: The use of lots was not considered magic. It was seen as a 
way to cast things "before the Lord our God" so that He could reveal 
the way choices should be made.

In the New Testament, lots appear in several important places. Roman 
soldiers cast lots for the Lord’s garments. (Matthew 27:35; Mark 15:24; Luke 
23:34, and John 19:24) When the disciples sought a replacement for Judas, 
they cast lots and the "lot of succession" fell on Matthias. Acts 1:26 reports the
results of that "lot."

20

 Therefore, it should not surprise us that this method was used to determine 
who among the people on board the ship had transgressed against the will of 
the Lord.

 AC 376 [24] gives a clue to the meaning of "casting lots" upon people. It 

means or signifies "to dissipate the truths of the church, ‘to cast a lot’…on 
people signifies the church in relations to truths, thus…the truths of the 
church…" This quote seems to agree with the description of the internal 
sense in P&P.

 New Church history has a "drawing of lots" story as well. For an interesting 

account of the selection of the first New Church ministers, read C.T. Odhner’s 
book Robert Hindmarsh, pages 17-24. The basis for believing in "lots" is 
drawn from True Christian Religion (TCR) 696 [5] and SE 4008. Here is a 
summary of their reasoning: Use of lots appeared to be supported by the 
disciples use of them "…to fill the vacant place of Judas; and by the teaching in
the True Christian Religion, n. 696, concerning the immediate guidance of the 
Divine Providence in the drawing of lots."

"…the lot fell on Jonah."

 Do these words convey something of the hope that there would be 

"immediate guidance of the Divine Providence" in the calming of the great 
storm?

The Five Questions Posed to Jonah

 The mariners asked Jonah five questions. Let us consider them, one at a time.

Question One

"Then they said to [Jonah], ‘Please tell us! For whose cause is this trouble upon us?’

 This question deals with many issues: Blame, responsibility, identifying the 

root of the problem, and seeking to find a remedy.

 To the evil, it appears that the Lord and His truth cause the trouble. (AR 696) 
When temptation enters our lives, a degree of labor and strife disturbs us. 
The Lord allows the pain and discomfort of temptation so that we will spend 
some "quality time" attempting to find answers that will give us a sense of 
"the power of conquering." (AC 8670)

 At first, we tend to deny our involvement in bringing any of this trouble on 

ourselves. It is always someone else who caused our spiritual affliction. This 
question, posed by the ship’s crew, seems to focus our thinking on "for whose 
cause is this trouble upon us?"

21

Question Two

"What is your occupation?"

 Occupation, toil, work, labor, deeds, uses, ways, and practices are all words 

we might research for help with our derived doctrinal study.

 Pharaoh’s question to Joseph’s brothers, "What are your works?", signified an
inquiry about their "goods," "services," and "uses": all of these are works 
(goods) for "the neighbor, for our country, for the church, for the Lord’s 
kingdom." (AC 6073)
"All good things that take form in act are called uses; and all evil things that 
take form in act are also called uses…all good things are from the Lord and all
evil things from hell…" (DLW 336) Can we hear a Divine question being posed 
here for the purpose of stimulating reflection on the source of our 
"occupation"?



Question Three

"And where do you come from?"

 Would it be accurate to assume they wanted to know something of his 

"habitation"?

 AC 4651 lists names of people. Following the list of names, we have this 

explanation: "…‘according to their families, according to their places, in their 
names,’ signifies the doctrinal things of good from them, and their rise, state, 
and quality; …[names] signify the principal doctrinal things; ‘according to 
their habitations in their land’…[their] truths and goods…"

 Can we apply the above quote to the mariners’ question? Were they seeking 
insight into the "rise," "state," and "quality" of Jonah’s doctrinal good and 
truth? In more modern terms, were they trying to see what he was "made 
of"?

Question Four

"…and what is your country?



"One’s own country is the neighbor according to its goods, spiritual, moral, 
and civil." (Doctrine of Charity 83)

 AC 4651 teachings apply to this question when we focus on the meaning of 

"places."

22

Question Five

"And of what people are you?"



In the Word, when "a ‘city’ is mentioned instead of a family, and ‘people’ 
instead of nation, truth is signified which is of faith." (AC 2943 [2])
 Were they asking Jonah this question to see what truths he followed or 

practiced in matters of faith?

Jonah’s Answers to the Five Questions

"So [Jonah] said to them, ‘I am a Hebrew; and I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who 
made the sea and the dry land.’"

 Why did Jonah say he was a Hebrew? Why not "I am Jewish"?


Jonah’s response to the mariners, on the surface, seems historically self-
evident. He was telling them that his background could be traced to Eber
or Heber. But from the internal sense, one discovers that this simple 
statement carries a depth of meaning that requires some background 
knowledge of the Word and a degree of concentration and organization to 
fully understand. Following is an attempt to bring some of the facts to the 
forefront.



 When other nations were worshipping many gods, Eber and those who made 
up that Hebrew nation "with unanimity acknowledged the Lord, and called 
Him Jehovah…" (AC 1343)
In the Word, we find numerous passages where this quote is used: "The Lord 
God of the Hebrews sent me to you…" (Exodus 3:18; Exodus 7:16; Exodus 9:1, 
13; and Exodus 10:3 are but a few examples of the use of this phrase.)
 Why would Moses announce this to the Egyptians? "…the descendants of 
Jacob in Egypt lost [their unanimous acknowledgment of the Lord. Moses 
himself was called to] instruct first of all that Jehovah was the God of the 
Hebrews, and the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob…[and]…the second 
essential of the worship of the Hebrew nation consisted in sacrifices…" (AC 
1343 [4-5])

 AC 1702 and 1703 repeat a phrase we must pay attention to: "‘Hebrews’ are 
mentioned in the Word when anything of service [servitude] is signified, of 
whatever nature it may be…"

 AC 8974 states that "Hebrew is predicated of those things which are of the 



church, and of those things which are of some service…"
Servitude needs to be adjoined with affection: "…[he who] does good from 
obedience only and not from affection which is of love, cannot be 
regenerated…" (AC 8974)

 The opening paragraph of the above number begins with this teaching: "…‘a 
Hebrew servant,’ signifies those within the church who are in the truths of 
doctrine and not in good of life according to them…"

23

 Can we go back and draw some "general" ideas to provide a basis for deeper 
"particulars"? Heber as a church had unanimity about the Lord. With the 
passing of time, that unanimity and love for the Lord dissolved. The 
descendants of Jacob forgot. Moses did not know who the great "I Am" was. 
The Lord taught Moses again. Moses received two lessons to teach to the 
people: the identity of the Lord God of the Hebrews and the sacrifices that 
were to be offered to Him. Before these things were completed, the Hebrews 
had to serve the Egyptians. They were called out of that bondage.
Jonah, on the other hand, seems to represent, once again, a period of 
regression in the Jewish church. As a "Hebrew" in servitude to the Lord, he 
was going through the motions of serving. His refusal to answer the Lord’s 
call to help Nineveh clearly shows that he did not serve from affection or love 
for the Lord. Instead, he offered greater service to self-prudence than to the 
Lord’s will. Jonah, in common with the people of his church, felt he knew best 
who should hear and have the Word. In light of this lesson, his identification 
with his Hebrew heritage seems strikingly shallow and in immediate need of 
review and rededication.



"And I fear the Lord, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land.

 AC 2826 tells us that what "fearing God" signifies "may be seen from a great 

many passages" in the Word. "The ‘fear of God’ signifies worship, and indeed 
worship either from fear, or from the good of faith, or from the good of love; 
worship from fear when the non-regenerate, worship from the good of faith 
when the spiritual regenerate, and worship from the good of love when the 
celestial regenerate are treated of." Without making a spiritual judgment, it 
would appear that Jonah’s remark probably illustrates the fear of God as 
illustrated by the "non-regenerate."
"…the God of heaven…" "In the Word the Lord is sometimes called ‘Jehovah,’ 
and sometimes ‘God,’ and always for a secret reason in the internal sense. 
Where love or good, and the celestial church, are treated of, He is called 
‘Jehovah;’ but when faith or truth, and the spiritual church, are treated of, He 
is called ‘God’, and this constantly…" (AC 2001, emphasis added)
"…who made the sea and dry land." "It is a very common thing in the Word 
for ‘waters’ to signify knowledges, and consequently for ‘seas’ to signify a 
collection of knowledges. (AC 28) "Dry land" signifies "the external man".(AC 
27)





Putting It All Together

P&P points us to the essence of this section. The children of Israel were experiencing
the "loss of knowledges." They were forgetting the Lord, His teachings, His mission. 
The Lord of the Hebrews was becoming "invisible." What is invisible does not fall 
into an idea of thought. It is quite difficult to love that which is invisible to us. 
Consider this teaching in Heaven and Hell (H&H) 82: "Those [who extinguish the 

24

divine light from heaven] by self-intelligence prefer an invisible God; while those 
that have extinguished it by a life of evil prefer no God."

Things that we don’t love soon pass from our care and attention. The goal or mission
of the New Church is to make that which is invisible visible once again. How will we 
go about cooperating with this vital spiritual process?

When we lose something, how do we go about finding the lost article? We usually 
begin by retracing (literally or mentally) our steps. We ask ourselves where we last 
had, used, or saw the missing thing. Asking the right questions sometimes can help 
us go back and find the thing that’s missing.

We see a similar process happening in the story of Jonah, and the questions the 
mariners ask contribute to this reflective process. The five questions start out with 
"who," "what," "where," "what," and "what."

Jonah’s responses to the questions are true. He is a Hebrew. His God is the God of 
heaven, the sea, and the dry land. He claims that he "fears" the Lord, but it all seems 
so superficial and rote. If he really feared the Lord, he would have taken the 
missionary journey to Nineveh. If he really feared God, he would never have 
imagined he could go in the opposite direction of his use.

Let this feeling about Jonah expand, not in a self-righteous vein but to the end that 
we might look for and resist the same tendencies in ourselves. If we see them, we 
confront ourselves and learn how these tendencies fail to meet our standards of 
acceptable thought and action. When we talk about shunning evils as sins, we need 
some specifics to consider. Do we lightly assume our New Church heritage and talk a 
good line but lack enthusiasm for the uniqueness of the Divine tasks laid before us?

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Jonah 1:7-9.

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. How would you go about checking up on yourself to see what kind of "loss of 
knowledges" you have had? More to the point, what kind of teachings help 
make the Lord visible to you and bring Him nearer to your heart? How do the 
Writings make the invisible visible again?

2. Recall the quote from H&H 82. What thoughts do you have about it? What 

makes the Lord seem invisible or absent to some people?

25

3. Consider the five questions posed to Jonah: What issues did they help you 

focus on?

4. What about casting lots? Were you aware of their use in the Old and New 

Testaments? Were you aware of their use in the ordination of our first New 
Church ministers? That story about Hindmarsh is quite interesting. Have you 
ever read it?

5. How far might we trust or follow the use of lots today? What is your point of 
view about playing the lottery? Could Divine Providence be involved in 
"games of chance"? How might this be used or abused?

6. "I am a Hebrew" has many passages and applications to consider. A book 

could be written on just these words. We tried to shorten the overview so as 
to not overwhelm the mind. It is all there for someone to explore and 
research. There are many secrets to be unfolded. Anyone interested in 
picking up the challenge to go forward with this research?

JONAH 1:10-13

"Then the men were exceedingly afraid, and said to him, ‘Why have you done this?’ For 
the men knew that he fled from the presence of the Lord, because he had told them. 
Then they said to him, ‘What shall we do to you that the sea may be calm for us?’—for 
the sea was growing more tempestuous. And he said to them, ‘Pick me up and throw 
me into the sea; then the sea will become calm for you. For I know that this great 
tempest is because of me.’ Nevertheless the men rowed hard to return to land, but they 
could not, for the sea continued to grow more tempestuous against them."

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"[The gentiles] should reject those things which were from the Jewish nation, 
because they were falsified, so that [the gentiles] might be saved."

Derived Doctrine

"Then the men were exceedingly afraid, and said to [Jonah]…"

 AC 2543 explains a passage from Genesis 20:9 regarding the meaning of the 

words "the men feared greatly." "‘Fearing,’ or ‘fear,’ like all emotions, though in
appearance simple, involves in itself many things, namely, in worldly matters 
the loss of life, of reputation, of honor, and of gain; and in heavenly matters 
the loss of what is good and true, and of the life thence derived. As fear 

26

involves these things it also involves aversion to whatever endeavors to 
destroy them; and this the more in proportion as the man is in affection of 
what is good and true."

 That same passage has a wonderful quote about the Lord’s aversion for the 
contrary things hell sought to put in His way. The Lord had a "zeal" for 
doctrine that it might "be free from contamination…"

 This same number explains that "men signify rational things and memory-

knowledges, or all intellectual things whatever…"

 To understand the phrase "…and said to Jonah," we need a brief reminder of 
the problem to which that "fear" or "zeal" held an aversion. Jonah (the object 
of the aversion) signifies the unwilling attitude of his nation to spread, or 
share, the faith of the Lord. (AE 401 [36])

 The mariners asked Jonah two more questions: "Why have you done this?" 

and "What shall we do to you that the sea may be calm for us?"

 These two questions stimulated Jonah to think, to soul search and reflect on 

his misguided actions. A passage in SE 734 offers an insight into the 
importance of such moments of self-reflection from the Word, as opposed to 
allowing others to do the reflecting for us. When others reflect for us, "[we] 
remain in [our] phantasies…and [then we] consider truth to be falsities, 
because [we] judge from [our] phantasies…" The first question is direct and 
personal. "Why have you done this?" Such a question moved Jonah away from
tradition and what others said or believed. He had to become accountable for 
his own decisions.

 The first question posed by the mariners seems to go to motive. They wanted
to know his reasons, his principles, or his intentions. Truly, they wanted to 
know what was in his heart. "I have seen many who place all worship in oral 
and outward piety, while in their actual life they gave no thought to the Lord’s
commandments in the Word, believing that what is sincere and right, just and
equitable, must be done not from regard to religion, thus from a spiritual 
motive, but merely from regard to civil law and also to moral law, that they 
might appear sincere and just for the sake of reputation…believing that this 
would take them into heaven before others." (AE 325 [5])

 The second question posed by the mariners seems to go to the issue of 

consequences. They wanted Jonah to get help from the Lord so the Lord’s 
corrective action would overcome the "stormy" nature of his consequences. 
He especially needed to make amends for his poor decision to turn away from
the calling of the Lord.

 Let’s look at several teachings in the Writings that speak to this point. "Every 

smallest fraction of a moment of a person’s life entails a chain of 
consequences extending into eternity…and since the Lord foresaw from 
eternity what man was going to be like in the future and even into eternity it 
is clear that providence is present in the smallest individual things, and…is 
governing him and diverting him so that he may be such, this being achieved 
by constant re-shaping of his freedom." (AC 3854 [3]) In SE 4091, we read "…
consequences are never removed except through the bond of conscience, and 

27

thus by a thorough repentance…in order to the receiving of faith from the 
Lord."

"For the [mariners] knew that [Jonah] fled from the presence of the Lord, because 
[Jonah] had told them."





"Fleeing" has several meanings. AC 4114 uses the word "separation." It is an 
attempt to distance oneself from someone or something.
"Fleeing" as described in AC 4537 indicates a purposeful decision to place 
truth over good.

 When Moses "fled" from Pharaoh, it represented the Word separating itself 

from falsities. (AC 6770)

 We then have to consider what Jonah’s fleeing from the presence of the Lord 
means. He indeed separated himself from the Lord. Jonah’s mind was set, 
closed to the influx of the Lord. He placed the tradition-derived truths or 
concepts of the church above the Lord’s love for all people. Jonah’s flight 
illustrated how active falsity was in separating itself from the Word of the 
Lord.

 A plus, if you can call it that, was that Jonah was "up front" about what he was

doing. Jonah told the mariners.

"What shall we do to you that the sea may be calm for us?—for the sea was growing 
more tempestuous."

 These words carry some exciting meanings and applications. To follow all of 
the points would necessitate a fuller text than we can offer in this study guide
format. We could turn to Psalm 107:25 and 29 and read, "For [the Lord] 
commands and raises the stormy wind…He calms the storm, so that the 
waves are calm." We could turn our thoughts to Mark 4:39 and read, "Jesus 
awoke and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, ‘Be quiet, be still.’ And 
the wind ceased, and there was a great calm."

 AC 5725 gives us an insight as to why "deluges" occur in our lives. "When a 
person who has led a good life is taken back into his own selfhood, and so 
into the sphere that emanates from the life properly his own, it seems like a 
deluge. Caught in this deluge he is annoyed and angry, has unpeaceful 
thoughts and wildly evil desires…But when a person is kept within the 
sphere emanating from the life he has received through regeneration from 
the Lord...he is, so to speak, in a calm and sunny, cheerful and happy place, 
and so is far removed from annoyance, anger, unpeacefulness, evil desires, 
and the like."

 AC 3696 describes the inevitability of "storms" in our life. As a person 

"advances in years or grows up," he or she often relinquishes trust in the 
Lord, and life consequently moves into states that are not serene. Evils and 
falsities will "emerge and show themselves, and these trouble [the person], 

28



so much so at length that he undergoes temptations and trials from the 
devil’s crew who try all the time to destroy…his…state of life."
"The sea was growing more tempestuous…" AE 514 [22-23] helps us 
understand the meaning of the tempestuous seas. "…lusts of every kind rise 
up therefrom into the natural man, these…are signified by ‘the wind and the 
waves of the sea,’ and hell itself is signified by the ‘sea’ in the spiritual 
sense….This [the Lord’s calming of the wind and sea] could not have been 
said to the wind and the sea unless hell had been meant thereby, from which 
arise the tempestuous emotions of the mind from various cupidities."

"And [Jonah] said to them, ‘Pick me up and throw me into the sea; then the sea will 
become calm for you."

 The key to understanding the spiritual sense of this passage seems to appear 
when we note that to lift up signifies to "gather together." (AR 707) To pick up 
or lift signifies to elevate the intelligence and to think from higher principles.
(AC 2789) In short, Jonah’s words represent a call to the gentile state to 
gather together the falsities (in this instance, the falsities of the Jewish 
Church) so they might be rejected. Falsities have to be removed from the ship 
of doctrine. When that task is accomplished, the seas once again will become 
calm, serene, and peaceful.

"For I know that this great tempest is because of me."





Is this confession of Jonah’s (Israel’s) commendable? Is he finally coming to 
his senses and admitting that he was wrong and he now is ready to change? 
Or is it a "forced" confession based on the hard and dangerous facts at hand? 
The boat was nearing the breaking point. He was cornered and questioned by
the seamen who had an idea he was the one responsible for the tempestuous 
waves. Was he sorry for what he had caused or was he sorry that he got 
caught in the act of rebellion? Is Jonah truly ready to sacrifice himself for the 
safety of these gentile seamen?
Jonah represents the Jewish church. Is there a change occurring here that will
bring them to a point of joyfully sharing the Word of the Lord with Gentile 
nations?

"Nevertheless the men rowed hard to return to land, but they could not, for the sea 
continued to grow more tempestuous against them."

 AE 514 [2] teaches us that those who are "pilots," "ship-masters," "rowers," 
and "mariners" represent those who teach, lead, and rule. With this insight, 
we can see that the mariners rowing hard to return to land indicates that 
they tried to solve the problems of the tempestuous sea on the merit of their 
own prudence.

29

 TCR 68 announces that people who think that they can fight against evil on 
their own are as helpless as "a fish against the ocean, then a flea against a 
whale…then a locust…against an elephant, or a fly against a camel." A lone 
person has no chance of being on solid ground to fight against evil. Unless 
people approach the Lord, they will "be driven about by evils, one after 
another, as a skiff at sea is driven by the storms." (TCR 68)

Putting It All Together

P&P summarizes this section with this admonition: "[The gentiles] should reject 
those things which were from the Jewish nation, because they were falsified…"

Can you, in your heart and mind, picture something of the magnitude of the Lord’s 
zeal to preserve and protect the purity and correctness of His doctrine? When the 
Lord sees His church in harm’s way, He doesn’t respond with an impetuous "rush to 
judgment" attitude. Instead, His eyes look to eternal uses and salvation. When the 
Lord speaks to us, He does so in measured and accommodated ways so we can grasp
and use His truth. He misses nothing. An amazing amount of zeal flows from Him 
into the smallest particles of creation. Like little listening threads, they lead us to the
Lord and the vitality of eternal life.

How important are we to the Lord? Let’s consider this reflection offered in TCR 766: 
"The Lord is present with every man, urging and pressing to be received…"

He came to stop and correct the effects of the gross falsities of hell. He came to bring 
light to all who were lost in the darkness of spiritual ignorance. He came to clear 
away the lifeless forms of boring and useless tradition. He admonished the Scribes 
and the Pharisees for substituting their tradition for the Lord’s teachings, or holding 
their own laws to be more important than the Word of the Lord. So His work 
involved saying to them: "You have it heard that it was said to those of old…but I say 
to you..." (Matthew 5:21-22) He told them they strained out gnats but swallowed 
camels. (Matthew 23:24)

Let’s begin reflecting on why the Lord would urge the gentile mariners to "reject 
those things which were from the Jewish nation…" Are these words a historical 
condemnation of Judaism? That is not likely. Instead, they are a condemnation of 
spiritual attitudes that permeate attitudes of all nations and churches that turn away
from Him. Consider this teaching from AE 412 [14]:



"…the Jewish nation…was such that it looked to externals only, and to 
internals not at all; and to look at externals and not at the same time 
internals, or at externals without internals, is like looking at the image of a 
man that is without life; but to look at externals and at the same time 
internals…is like looking at a living man…"

30

AC 10566 summarizes the things a church, or individual, has to correct or overcome 
to become a living vessel that is worthy to serve the Lord:

 Holding the church in low regard. "Israel thought nothing of the church."
 Thinking "only of the possessions of the land…"
 Desiring "eminence over others."
 Believing that "there were many gods."
 Worshiping "Jehovah merely on account of the miracles, and not because He 

alone was God."

Jonah, therefore, is a representative of all stubborn and unwilling spiritual attitudes 
that pervade a heart and mind unwilling to serve the Lord. Jonah’s life is a 
correspondential story of the danger and foolishness of a self-made fantasy world. 
To break the mold of that fantasy, we have the recorded words of the mariners 
asking questions: "Why have you done this?" "What shall we do to you…?" The 
heading of TCR 525 begins with these words (emphasis added): "Recognition of sin 
and the discovery of some sin in oneself is the beginning of repentance." TCR 528 
expands on the process of repentance:

 Examine yourself.
 Recognize and acknowledge sins; make a true confession apart from 

moroseness and blaming others.

 Pray to the Lord (supplicate the Lord’s help).
 Begin a new life.

Jonah begins the process of repentance by confessing his transgressions. He 
admitted that the tempestuous seas were due to him. Will he follow through with 
the rest of the steps of repentance?

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Jonah 1:10-13.

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. The mariners experienced fear. What kind of fear? Was it merely for their 

lives, or were they fearful of losing their "affection of what is good and true"?

2. What would you say we fear the most: other people’s opinion of us, or the 

Lord’s opinion of us?

3. Self-evaluation is hard work. SE 734 reminds us that we have to do it for 

ourselves. If others think for us, we "remain in our phantasies" and "consider 

31

truth to be falsities." Hell tries to think for us. Hell pushes its morose qualities
into reflection. It tends to "muddy" the water with the great blame game. Hell 
encourages us to trace the fault to others and excuse ourselves as helpless 
pawns in an unfair life. How can we do a fair self-examination in a 
constructive way?

4. Can we see that "the Jewish nation" is not just the Jewish nation? The faults, 
the mistakes they made have to be shunned in the New Church, too. We 
cannot afford to be an external church without an internal. Why? AE 412 [14] 
gives us our answer.

5. What "listening threads" do you have reaching out in all directions, like a 

spider’s web, so you can with great sensitivity feel and respond to the Lord’s 
zeal for doctrine?

6. Active participation in the process of spiritual growth is so much healthier 

than passively resisting the Lord. When do you feel a positive push to be more
active in the ways of the Lord?

7. One last question to consider. Did the rowing of the mariners to save Jonah 
touch some kind of responsive chord? They tried to clear up the problem 
with their own prudence. Ever done that? How did the quote (in the Derived 
Doctrine section) from TCR 68 help you rethink the role of human prudence 
in repentance?

JONAH 1:14-16

"Therefore they cried out to the Lord and said, ‘We pray, O Lord, please do not let us 
perish for this man’s life, and do not charge us with innocent blood; for You, O Lord, 
have done as it pleased You.’

So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging.
Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice to the Lord and took 
vows."

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"They prayed unto the Lord for salvation, which was effected for them, when 
the falsities from the Jewish nation had been removed."

32

Derived Doctrine

"Therefore [the mariners] cried out to the Lord…"

 AR 885 offers us this insight into the meaning of crying out: "…be it known, 
that ‘a cry,’ in the Word, is said in reference to every affection that breaks 
forth from the heart, wherefore it is a voice of lamentation, of imploring, of 
supplication from grief, of entreaty, of indignation, of confession, yea of 
exultation."

 AC 7119 indicates that "crying" signifies "strong thought…with full intention 

of doing…" a worship that is worthy and honoring to the Lord.

"We pray, O Lord, please do not let us perish for [Jonah’s] life…"







It is a self-evident truth that purposeful wrongs cannot be committed with 
impunity. Redress is necessary. In the minds of many, Divine forgiveness is 
not gratuitous. There must be some penalty. For the children of Israel, a sin 
against God especially had to be atoned for by offering a "sacrificial lamb." 
The blood of the spotless animal had to be sprinkled on "holy vestments" 
with the hope that this would secure the Lord’s forgiveness. In the Old 
Testament, propitiation was meticulously offered by the priest in order to 
win, or secure, divine favor. Many other nations at that time also believed in 
the concept of propitiation.
In the epistles of the New Testament, there is a great emphasis on teachings 
that the Lord, as God’s Son, came to offer Himself as the great Propitiation to
appease God’s wrath. The epistles are used to support a fervent belief that a 
penalty for the sin of Adam (original sin) had to be paid. Unless propitiation 
was made, no one had a chance of being saved. Jesus paid the penalty for our 
sins and thus secured our salvation. Without the Lord taking on the sins of 
the world, no one could have been saved.

o Nota Bene: Such teachings are not supported by New Church 

doctrines.

Is the fear of the mariners justified in light of the long history and acceptance 
of propitiation? Did they see themselves as possible sacrifices to appease the 
wrath of the Lord? Did they see themselves as hapless victims necessary to 
secure Divine favor and atonement for Jonah’s sin?

"…do not charge us with innocent blood; for You, O Lord, have done as it pleased You."

 Can we hear their argument? We are innocent. We had no part in this 

turbulent storm of trouble. You, meaning the Lord, started all of this. This 
pleased You. Please leave us out of it. They leave out of their prayerful 
argument Jonah’s transgressions. Isn’t this typical? It’s always the Lord’s fault
when human prudence examines culpability.

33

"So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its 
raging."



"‘To be lifted up’ or ‘to be elevated’ is to advance toward the interior things; 
for what is elevated or high is predicated of…interior things…for heaven is in 
the interior things." (AC 5124)

 When Abraham "cast out" Hagar and Ishmael from his presence, AC 



2657explains, the "casting out" signifies that the "things of the merely human 
rational should be banished…" With every person being regenerated, there 
are two rationals: one before regeneration and one after regeneration.
"…they threw [Jonah] into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging." To 
bring this passage into our understanding, let’s first focus on the raging sea. 
AC 2832 [2] describes surging seas as representative of heresies and 
controversies in an uproar. Could this derived teaching be representative of 
Jonah’s thinking? He imagined that the church and its knowledge were 
exclusively for the Jewish people. He resisted carrying the Word to the 
gentiles. So the roaring of the waves signified the heresies within the 
externals of the church. AR 402 and AE 511 describe the "sea" as being 
knowledges in general that were lacking any internal foundation.

 Any and all controversies and heresies have to be cast out of the church for it 
to come to any state of peace or calmness. Heresy in the New Church will be 
subdued by the Lord. When the "first rational" was cast out, the "second 
rational" had a chance to be formed. This is described in the words "the sea 
ceased from its raging."

"Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice to the Lord and took
vows."

 This fear of the Lord has a positive spiritual meaning. In the spiritual sense, 
this pictures the human understanding coming to have a great affection 
(positive fear) for the Lord’s truth. (AE 328 [15])

 Offering a sacrifice to the Lord represents the following things: AC 4210 says 
it signifies worship coming from the good of love. AC 5998 teaches us that a 
sacrifice represents worshiping the Lord from charity. AC 8088 says that 
sacrificing is to see that real faith of charity is from the Lord. Sacrifice 
involves a willingness to give up one’s proprium to be obedient to the Lord.
 To take vows represents a willingness to rely on the Lord and to have a heart 
that acknowledges the necessity of the Lord’s Providence directing our life. 
Please read all of AC 3732. This number has much more on the meaning of 
"taking a vow."

Putting It All Together

P&P sums this section up with the teaching that salvation comes through prayer and 
the shunning of evils and falsities as sins against the Lord. Other passages from the 

34

Writings extol the virtue of periodic, wholesome, and realistic self-examination. Self-
examination is best when it is free from self-pity and a morose attitude. When an 
evil or sin is found, we need to make a confession of our guilt, supplicating the Lord 
for help with a desire to live a new life in harmony with Divine order.

Let’s consider for a moment the thoughts that are present in the first rational: There 
is a desire there to blame the Lord for our turmoil; we feel as though the Lord is 
picking on us unfairly; and we look for the easy (propitiatory) way to appease the 
"wrath of the Lord." Casting all of our sins on the Lord and walking away with little 
or no regenerative struggle on our part sounds good. Doctrine does not support this 
attitude. Until we elevate our minds to higher truths and fight with the Lord’s 
spiritual truths, we will miss the essence of repentance, reformation, and 
regeneration. The Lord wants us to seek out His truth and do battle against our 
proprial inclinations.

The second rational, when freed of heresies and controversies in the proprium, 
experiences an inner calm. How do we get to the second rational? We pray for help. 
We turn over to the Lord our resistive nature. The second rational flourishes when 
our thinking is based on the ways of the Lord. Instead of allowing historical tradition
to think for us, we turn to the Word for guidance. With these intentions, we will take 
a "vow" to rely on, obey, and implement the eternal ends of the Lord. With a song in 
our heart, we promise "all that the Lord has spoken we will do and hear." The second
rational is lifted up, and higher goals and priorities inflow when the resistive Jonah 
nature is thrown overboard.

Doesn’t the goal of the lifted "second rational" sound stronger and more dynamically
cooperative with the Lord than "dumping" (propitiatory idea) all our sins on the 
Lord and walking away with little or no responsibility?

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Jonah 1:14-16.

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. Our lesson from P&P claims "Salvation comes through prayer." Are you clear 
on how we are to pray and what prayer is? The Lord’s disciples asked Him to 
teach them how to pray. They were taught the Lord’s Prayer. Is that prayer to 
be our model? Are prayers to be well thought out or can spontaneous prayers
be as effective when we call out in a moment of need? How many kinds of 
prayers are there?

35

o Prayers taken from the Word. (The prayers of the Psalms, for 

instance.)

o Prayers for spiritual ends as described in Divine Providence (DP) 214, 

215, and 219.

o Prayers for the spiritual good of others.

o Prayers for the church.

o Prayers for what we need.

o Prayers for revelation.

o Prayers during and after the shunning of evils.

o Prayers to help us carry out a Use.

o Perpetual prayers "when we are in the life of charity, although not 

with the mouth, but of the heart." (AE 325)

o Prayers to help us through periods of temptations.

o Prayers while we read and acquire truths from the Word.

o Note we have left prayers of intercession off the list. Why? Do these 

kinds of prayers need to be included in our list? Does the Lord wait for
us to band together to hold up a name before He acts to heal, comfort, 
or change something in someone’s life? Are our prayers effective in 
the removal of drug addiction, cancer, alcohol, or mental problems?

2. The steps of repentance are: self-examination, make ourselves guilty for our 
sins, supplicate the Lord for help, and seek to begin a new life. Do these steps 
involve making sacrifices? Do we have to offer up a "propitiatory" sacrifice to 
appease the Lord?

3. Does "casting our sins upon the Lord" sound appealing? Fighting to change 
our lives seems threatening and painfully time consuming. The Lord knows 
our sins. He knows where and how to remove them from our lives. Why not 
let Him do it all for us?

4. The first rational and second rational—can you think of ways to illustrate the 
difference between them? How about this natural idea (from I Corinthians 
13) as a starter: "When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a 
child, I thought as a child; but when I became a man, I put away childish 
things." Carry this imagery along now in spiritual matters.

36

Chapter Two

JONAH 1:17

(Note: P&P reminds us that the English Bible has verse 17 of chapter 1 as verse 1 of 
chapter 2. Consequently, the quote from P&P will apply to both Jonah 1:17 and Jonah
2:1-10 as given in the New King James Version. )

"Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly 
of the fish three days and three nights."

JONAH 2:1-10

"Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the fish’s belly. And he said: ‘I cried out to 
the Lord because of my affliction, and He answered me. Out of the belly of Sheol I cried,
and You heard my voice. For You cast me into the deep, into the heart of the seas, and 
the floods surrounded me; all Your billows and Your waves passed over me.’ Then I said,
‘I have been cast out of Your sight; Yet I will look again toward Your holy temple.’ The 
waters surrounded me, even to my soul; the deep closed around me; weeds were 
wrapped around my head. I went down to the moorings of the mountains; the earth 
with its bars closed behind me forever; yet You have brought up my life from the pit, O 
Lord, my God.

When my soul fainted within me, I remembered the Lord; and my prayer went up to 
You, into Your holy temple. Those who regard worthless idols forsake their own Mercy. 
But I will sacrifice to You with the voice of thanksgiving; I will pay what I have vowed. 
Salvation is of the Lord.’

So the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah onto dry land."

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"[This is a] Prophecy concerning the Lord’s combats with the hells, and 
concerning His most grievous temptations at the time, and concerning His 
state at the time; the ‘three days and nights during which Jonah was in the 
bowels of the fish,’ signify the entire duration of the combat with the hells."

37

AC 901 [4]



"That Jonah was three days and three nights in the bowels of the fish, 
manifestly represented the burial and resurrection of the Lord on the third 
day." (This refers to Jonah 1:17.)

AC 2788 [2]



"…the ‘third day’ denotes the Lord’s coming, and His resurrection. And from 
Jonah, that he ‘was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights’…" 
(Jonah 1:17)

AC 4495 [3]



"…it may be seen that there was some mystery in the number ‘three,’ and that
therefore this number…signifies an entire period of the church and of the 
things in the church, whether great or small…that it consequently signifies 
what is complete and also continuous to the end…" (Jonah 1:17)

Doctrine of Sacred Scripture (DSS) 29



"…by ‘three,’ in the Word, in the spiritual sense, is meant what is complete 
and perfect; and also the whole simultaneously. And as this is the 
signification of the number three, it is employed in the Word whenever any 
such thing is marked out for notice." (Jonah 1:17)

AR 505



"That ‘three’ signifies what is complete, thus to the end, may be seen from 
these passages in the Word…" Jonah 1:17 is cited.

TCR 211



"[There are] many other passages where the number three is mentioned; and
it is mentioned where a finished and perfect work is treated of, because this 
is what that number signifies." Jonah 1:17 is cited.

AE 532 [5]



"As the number three signified what is complete even to the end, that number
was adopted and employed in the representative church, whenever 
something complete was to be represented, as can be seen from these things 
in the Word …" Jonah 1:17 is cited.

38

AE 622 [9]



In Jonah 1:17, "…‘the bowels of the whale’…signifies the hells where there are 
most direful falsities, with which he was encompassed, consequently 
grievous temptations…"

AC 247



"…when man averts himself from the face of Jehovah, he ‘cleaves by his belly 
to the dust and to the earth.’ In Jonah likewise, by the ‘belly’ of the great fish, 
into which he was cast, are signified the lower parts of the earth…" Jonah 2:2 
is cited.

AE 538 [11]



"The Lord teaches in Matthew 12:39, 40; 16:4; Luke 11:29,30, that Jonah’s 
being in the whale three days and three nights represented that the Lord 
would thus be in the heart of the earth; and these words of Jonah describe the
Lord’s direful temptations. And because it is by the overflow of evils and 
falsities that come up out of hell, and as it were overwhelm, that temptations 
exist, it is said that ‘out of the belly of hell he cried,’ and that ‘he was cast into 
the depth, even into the heart of the seas,’ which signifies hell; ‘the river and 
waters that enclosed him,’ and ‘the billows and waves that passed over,’ 
signify the evils and falsities from hell; ‘the abyss that encompassed round 
about,’ signifies the hells where and from which are the falsities; ‘the cuttings 
off of the mountains to which he went down,’ signify the hells where and from
which are evils; that the Lord was as it were bound by these is signified by 
‘the sedge wrapped about the head,’ and ‘the bars of the earth that were upon
him,’ ‘wrapped by sedge’ signifying to be bound as it were by falsities, and 
‘the bars of the earth’ signifying to be bound as it were by evils; victory over 
these from His own power is signified by ‘yet hast Thou made my life to come
up out of the pit.’ It is said, ‘Thou hast made to come up,’ but in reference to 
the Lord this means that He made Himself to come up by His Divine, that is, 
by His own power." Jonah 2:2-3, 5-6 are cited.

AE 518 [38]



"As all spiritual temptations come through falsities that break into the 
thoughts and infest the interior mind, thus through reasonings from falsities, 
so temptations are signified by the inundations of waters and by the 
irruptions of rivers and torrents." Jonah 2:3 is cited.

39

AR 191



"‘The temple of holiness of Jehovah,’ or the Lord, is His Divine Human, for that
is bowed down to, looked to, and prayed to, and not to the temple only, for the
temple in itself is not holy. It is called ‘the temple of holiness,’ because 
holiness is predicated of the Divine truth." Jonah 2:4,7 are cited.

AE 220 [6]



"In the passages that follow ‘temple’ signifies the Lord’s Divine Human, and at
the same time heaven and the church." Jonah 2:4, 7 are cited.

AC 756



"In Jonah 2:5…the ‘waters’ and the ‘deep’ denote the extreme of temptation."

AC 6726



"…‘sedge’ denotes memory-knowledge; the sedge that is at the bank of a river
signifies memory-knowledge of low value…‘sedge’ denotes false memory-
knowledges in Jonah 2:5…in this prophetic utterance is described a state of 
temptations; ‘the waters which compassed even the soul’ denotes 
falsities…‘inundations of waters’ denotes temptations and desolations…‘the 
deep round about’ is the evil of falsity; ‘the seaweed bound about the head’ 
denotes false memory-knowledges besetting truth and good, as is the case in 
a state of desolation."

AC 8278 [3]



"…temptations are effected by means of falsities and evils that are injected by 
the hells. In this sense ‘abyss’ is used in these passages…"Jonah 2:5 is cited.

AC 9050 [10]



"In these passages [Jonah 2:5 is cited among others] ‘waters’ denote falsities, 
and also temptations which are caused by injected falsities…"

AE 750 [5]



"That ‘soul’ signifies the life of man’s spirit, which is called his spiritual life, is 
evident from the following passages." Jonah 2:5 is listed in a long series of 
examples.

40

AC 1691 [5]



"In Jonah 2:5, 6…the Lord’s temptations against the hells are thus 
prophetically described by Jonah, when in the belly of the great fish. So 
likewise in other passages of the Word, especially in David. He who is in 
temptations is in the hells; place has nothing to do with being in the hells, but
state."

AC 4728 [5]



"In Jonah 2:6…where the subject treated of is the Lord’s temptations, and 
deliverance from them. The ‘cuttings off of the mountains’ are where the 
most damned are, the dark clouds which appear about them being the 
‘mountains.’"

AE 750 [14]



"In Jonah 2:7…This treats of temptations; and that ‘his soul fainted upon him’ 
signifies that the truth fainted (or ceased) in the faith and understanding."

AC 3880 [10]



"…in Jonah 2:9…confession…in the supreme sense signifies the Lord and the 
Divine of love; in the internal sense, the Word and also the Lord’s celestial 
kingdom; and in the exterior sense, the doctrine from the Word which is of 
the celestial church."

Derived Doctrine

Our derived doctrine section will focus on the three verses not covered in our 
doctrinal exposition. We will seek help with derived doctrine for Jonah 2:1, 8, and10.

"Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the fish’s belly."



"‘Fishes’ in the Word signify memory-knowledges, which spring from things 
of the sense. For memory-knowledges (scientifica) are of three kinds: 
intellectual, rational, and sensuous. All of these are planted in the memory, or 
rather memories, and in the regenerate man are called forth thence by the 
Lord, through the internal man…and that a ‘whale’ or ‘sea monster’ signifies 
the generals of these knowledges." (AC 991)

 Recall the first mention of the fish. "…the Lord prepared a great fish to 
swallow Jonah." Our best source for deriving an understanding of this 
passage comes when we study AC 42 (emphasis added): "…‘fish’ means facts, 
here facts quickened and brought to life through faith from the Lord. ‘Sea 
monsters’ means those facts’ general sources, below which and from which 

41



details derive… In the Prophets sea monsters or whales are mentioned 
several times, and in those places they mean those general sources of facts. 
Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, who represents human wisdom or intelligence—
that is, knowledge in general—is called ‘a great sea monster’…This stands for 
the fact thatmankind did swallow cognitions of faith…just as the sea 
monster swallowed up Jonah. In that story the sea monster stands for 
people who treat general cognitions of faith as mere facts, and behave 
accordingly."(This is the Elliot translation of AC 42)
"Then Jonah prayed to the Lord his God from the fish’s belly." Please note the 
two direct teachings cited above (AC 247 and AE 622 [9]) about the meaning 
of Jonah being in the "belly" of the whale. We must add some derived 
doctrinal thinking, or application, to this passage. The Word is exposing the 
inner world of the Lord’s spiritual state. The hells tempted His sensuous 
mind to lead Him away from spiritual uses, hoping to distract His sensual 
mind from any heavenly inspiration and guidance. These temptations were 
far more grievous than we can imagine. Each love within Him was assaulted 
and subjected to ridicule and constant attack. Therefore, the Word illustrates 
this "downward" pull and His need to be lifted up with Jonah’s prayer to the 
Lord from the "belly" of the whale.

 Prayer is nothing else but communication with the Lord. (AC 3285)
 Praying is talking with God. (AC 3535)


In the universal sense, a person prays with all the truth he or she thinks and 
speaks. (AE 695)

 Praying effects a kind of opening of the interiors toward the Lord. This 

opening is according to the state of the person praying. Praying signifies to be
in worship of the Lord. (AE 325 [8])

 A person is continually praying when he or she is in the life of charity, 



although not with the mouth, nevertheless with the heart. For that which is of
love is always in the thought, whether a person knows it or not. (AE 325)
See AC 247 regarding the meaning of the "belly of the great fish." From this 
passage, we can see that fish correspond to the affection for thinking from the
senses, and the knowledge thus acquired. Some water animals are not fish. 
For example, a whale breathes through lungs and not gills. The whale is a 
warm-blooded animal. Fish are cold-blooded creatures of the sea. The whale 
roams great distances in the ocean and consumes large quantities of fish, 
krill, and plankton. A whale corresponds to a warm affection (desire) for 
general knowledge of truths and facts. The amount of sea creatures whales 
consume illustrates the magnitude of their "fact-finding" search.
 But when whales are used in the negative sense, they represent the 

corruption or abuse of fact finding. Is the whale the one who corrupts the 
facts? In this case, it was Jonah’s state being illustrated. He took facts from the
"belly of the whale" and corrupted and made useless the general knowledges 
and truths of the Lord’s Word.

42

"Those who regard worthless idols forsake their own mercy."

 To comprehend the negative context of "worthless idols," we need to 

understand the positive correspondence of "worthy." The word "worthy" 
means a person who is in truths from the Lord or people who will live from 
the Lord through knowledges of truth and good from the Word. (AR 167) It 
also signifies acknowledgment from the heart that everything divine is from 
the Divine Human. (AE 337)
Idols signify the falsities of religion, and their doctrinals. (AE 827[3]) Idols 
signify falsities of religion and worship that come to be called truths and 
goods. (AE 585[9]) Idols of gold, silver, brass, stone, and wood signify worship
from falsities of every kind. (AR 457)



 To "forsake" signifies the withdrawal of the Lord on account of the iniquities 

and sins of false worship. (AE 412[19])

 Forsaking their mercy signifies a rejection of the inflowing of love. (AC 3063) 
In the positive sense, mercy signifies a cleansing process from evils with a 
forgiveness of sins and an attention to all the elements of worship from the 
good of love. (AC 9505)

"So the Lord spoke to the fish and it vomited Jonah onto dry land."

 The Lord speaking to the fish seems to best understood with this thought in 
mind: speaking signifies influx and compliance from faith and love; or living 
as the Lord has taught us in the Word. (AC 9312)

 Vomiting signifies a casting out of falsified things. (AE 235[5])
 Dry land signifies a state where there is no longer anything spiritual, much 

less celestial. (AC 806) Dry signifies the external person lacking in truths. (AC 
27)Land signifies the church and its perception of truth. Dry land therefore 
indicates a kind of barrenness that existed with the church represented by 
Jonah.
It seems that when vomiting is mentioned in the Word, it is pointing us to 
something akin to vastations. It is an emptying out of falsity so that a new 
beginning may occur, a beginning directed by the Lord.



Putting It All Together

To pull this section together, we must focus and rely on the help we get from P&P. 
The internal sense is a story about the Lord and not about a person named Jonah. 
Jonah’s choices and his resistance to the call of Divine Love represent the type of 
temptations the hells laid out as a trap to defeat the Lord while He was on earth. 
Jonah’s experiences give us an overview of the things the hells hoped would 
overcome the Lord. We can see something of the magnitude of temptations the Lord 
faced, but we will never fully know how devious the hells were in their attempt to 
defeat Him. Every love He had was attacked. Every truth He had was challenged. The 

43

purity of His love intensified hell’s maniacal fury and hatred of Him. Read again the 
summary of the internal sense as given in P&P:

"[This is a] Prophecy concerning the Lord’s combats with the hells, and concerning 
His most grievous temptations at the time, and concerning His state at the time; the 
‘three days and nights during which Jonah was in the bowels of the fish,’ signify the 
entire duration of the combat with the hells."

Through the dialogue of Jonah, the hells cited authoritatively the opposing 
traditional beliefs the Jewish church adopted, venerated, and followed blindly 
regarding gentiles—all people outside of the Jewish Church. The hells quoted 
(misquoted) passages from the Word. The hells burned to interrupt His mission. 
Their plan was to catch Him off guard. If He had relaxed for even the smallest 
moment, they would have rushed in to destroy His soul. Their maniacal plan, like the
man possessed with a legion of demons, seemed strong enough to break any 
restricting chains put around them. The hells perceived themselves to be invincible. 
Hell’s name was "legion" and each unclean spirit was nefariously deadly. They 
wanted the Lord to concentrate on His natural/sensual mind, seeking a smoke 
screen of minutiae they hoped would keep Him from concentrating on spiritual and 
celestial issues. The weeds they wrapped around His head (the sedge of memory-
knowledges) tried to blind and choke the spiritual reality of His Divine essence. The 
Lord cast off each layer of sedge and resisted every decayed tactic. Through it all, He 
remained steadfast and true to the mission of salvation. The Lord emptied out 
(vomited) the idols of their thoughts. He faced the "belly of the whale" experience. 
He saved the church. Dry as the land was and empty as the church was, the Lord 
came to bring new growth and "living water" for all who thirsted. He restored mercy 
to the church. He quieted the fierce turbulent seas, and when those who had tried to 
weather the storm with their as-of-self, hard, and frantic rowing, saw little or no 
progress, they cried out to the Lord for help. He heard their voices. He rescued His 
beloved and gave them a new song of hope: "I will look again toward Your holy 
temple." (Jonah 2:4)

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Jonah 2:1-10.

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. When you read the story of Jonah, remember that it is a lesson about the 

Lord’s battle against hell. The hells didn’t want Him to reach out and bring 
the message of repentance to all people. What reasons did the hells use to 
argue their case? Think of the life of the Lord. At the beginning of His 
ministry, He was taken up into a mountain and shown the "world." He was 

44

told it could all be His if He would do what? Please note the nature and scope 
of the three temptations that He underwent on the mountain.

2. The Writings teach us temptation is an assault on some spiritual love given to

us by the Lord. The greater the love, the more severe the temptation. 
Consider the degree and level of temptation the Lord faced. "Most grievous" 
captures some of the severity but falls far short in our comprehension. He is 
all Love. He is all Truth. The attacks against His "all" must have been horrific. 
How do we think about our relationship to the Lord in light of this?

3. Think about some severe temptation in your life. What can you learn about 

the Lord’s experiences by thinking about your own?

4. The hells tried to use all kinds of memory-knowledges, traditional minutiae 
to confuse the Lord. The Scribes and Pharisees used many traditions against 
Him. Remember Pilate’s conversation with the Lord; Pilate had the power to 
release Him, but he failed to do so because the crowd influenced him. He 
asked the Lord if He was the king of the Jews. The Lord replied that He was 
and that He had come to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the 
truth "hears My voice." Pilate resorted to a word game. "What is truth?" That 
ended the dialogue. Have you seen a similar behavior in yourself or other 
people? What causes it?

5. We all need to have a hero. Can you recall some of your childhood heroes? Is 
the Lord still one of your Heroes? Looking at the severity of His fight against 
the Hell’s always reminds me what a loving Hero He is.

6.

If you have access to "Stairs" or "Word Search," look up Isaiah 9:6 and 
compare the wording of this verse in the Writings with that in other Bible 
versions. See how consistently "Hero" appears in the Writings translation of 
that verse. Why isn’t the word "hero" listed in all the other translations? You 
might not have an answer, but it is amazing that "Hero" is one of the names 
for the Lord.

45

Chapter Three

JONAH 3:1-10

"Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time, saying, ‘Arise, go to Nineveh,
that great city, and preach to it the message that I tell you.’ So Jonah arose and went to
Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great 
city, a three-day journey in extent. And Jonah began to enter the city on the first day’s 
walk. Then he cried out and said, ‘Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown!’ So 
the people of Nineveh believed God, proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the 
greatest to the least of them. Then word came to the king of Nineveh; and he arose 
from his throne and laid aside his robe, covered himself with sackcloth and sat in 
ashes. And he caused it to be proclaimed and published throughout Nineveh by the 
decree of the king and his nobles, saying, ‘Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, 
taste anything; do not let them eat, or drink water. But let man and beast be covered 
with sackcloth, and cry mightily to God; yes, let every one turn from his evil way and 
from the violence that is in his hands. Who can tell if God will turn away from His fierce
anger, so that we may not perish?’ Then God saw their works, that they turned from 
their evil way; and God relented from the disaster that He had said He would bring 
upon them, and He did not do it."

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"The nations, hearing from the Word of God about their sins, and that they 
would perish, were converted after repenting, and were heard by the Lord, 
and saved."

AC 9437 [2]



"As ‘forty’ signified what is full or complete…forty signifies what is complete 
in respect to instruction and influx…for this reason it was said by Jonah to the
Ninevites that ‘the city would be overthrown after forty days" (Jonah 3:4)

AR 492



"By being clothed in sackcloth is signified mourning on account of the 
vastated truth in the church; for garments signify truths; and therefore, to be 
clothed in sackcloth, which is not a garment, signifies mourning that there is 
no truth; and where there is no truth, there is no church." Jonah 3:5-6 is cited.

46

AE 637 [6]



"…in the Jewish and Israelitish church mourning was represented by ‘rending
the clothes and being clothed in sackcloth;’ and this because grief of mind 
and mourning of heart, which are interior things, were represented at that 
time by external things, which because of their correspondences with 
spiritual things were significative." Jonah 3:5, 6, and 8 are cited among the 
examples from the Word.

AC 4779 [2]



"…the rite of putting sackcloth on the loins to testify…mourning may be seen 
from the historic and prophetic parts of the Word, as in…Jonah 3:5-8…for a 
sign representative of mourning over the evil on account of which Nineveh 
was to perish; thus over destroyed good."

AR 166



"From the signification of garments it is also manifest why they rent their 
garments, when any one spoke against the Divine truth of the Word…and 
why, on account of transgressions against Divine truths, they put off their 
garments, and put on sackcloth." Jonah 3:5, 6, and 8 are cited.

AE 195 [17]



"That in mourning for transgression against Divine truths they should put off 
their garments and put on sackcloth." Jonah 3:5, 6, and 8 are cited.

AC 7520



"That ‘ashes’ denote falsity, may be confirmed from passages where another 
word for ‘ashes (cinis)’ is used, for these ashes have a like origin…" Jonah 
3:6is cited.

AC 9723



"…by ‘ashes’ in the opposite sense, namely, what is condemned that remains 
after the burning from the fire of self love. This is signified by ‘the ashes’ 
which they carried on the head, and in which they rolled themselves when 
bewailing their sins." Jonah 3:6 is cited.

AR 337



"In the spiritual sense by kings those who are in truths are signified, by the 
great ones those who are in goods, by the rich those that are in the 

47

knowledge of good, by the mighty they that are in erudition, by servants they 
that are in such things from others, and thus from memory, and by freemen 
they that are in such things from themselves…" Jonah 3:7 is cited.

AE 408 [3]



"Internal goods are signified by ‘great ones,’ because these four, namely, ‘great
ones,’ ‘the rich,’ ‘the commanders of thousands’ and ‘the mighty’ signify all the
goods and truths that are with man, thus the goods and truths both of the 
internal or spiritual man and of the external or natural man…Like things are 
signified by the ‘great ones’ elsewhere in the Word (namely in…Jonah 3:7)."

AC 7523



"The interior good and also the interior evil…are signified by ‘man,’ are those 
which are of the intention or end, for the intention or end is the inmost of 
man; but the exterior good and also the exterior evil which are signified by 
‘beast,’ are those which are of the thought, and of the consequent action when
nothing stands in the way…By ‘beast,’…in respect to the external or natural 
man, a man is nothing else than a beast, for he takes delight in the like 
cupidities and pleasures, as also in the like appetites and sense…Therefore…
from a holy rite it was commanded by the king of Nineveh, that both man and 
beast were to fast, and were to be covered with sackcloth (Jonah 3:7, 8)."

AR 567



"…in the spiritual world a man’s affections appear at a distance like beasts…
and beasts, viewed in themselves, are nothing but forms of natural 
affections…By man and beasts together is signified man as to spiritual and 
natural affection, in the following passages…Jonah 3:7, 8…"

AE 650 [21]



"…‘man’ signifies the internal spiritual man, and ‘beast’ signifies the external 
or natural…" Jonah 3:7-8 are cited as an example.

AC 623 [2]



"Here ‘webs’ and ‘garments’ are predicated of things of the understanding, 
that is, of the thought; ‘iniquity’ and ‘violence,’ of things of the will, that is, of 
works. In Jonah 3:8…the ‘evil way’ is predicated of falsities, which are of the 
understanding; and ‘violence,’ which are of the will."

48

AC 588 [2]



"…the ‘wrath of anger’ is attributed to Jehovah, and consequently 
‘repentance.’ In Jonah …[3:9]."

DSS 51 [2]



"…the Word is such in the sense of the letter, it may be evident that it cannot 
be understood without doctrine. But let examples illustrate this. It is said that
Jehovah repenteth (Jonah 3:9; 4:2), and it is also said that Jehovah repenteth 
not (Num. 23:19…): without doctrine these statements do not agree."

TCR 226 [2]

 Please note that this reference has the same wording and sources as cited in 

the quote above.

AC 10441 [2-4]



"In these passages (Jonah 3:9,10) Jehovah is said to have ‘repented,’ when yet 
it cannot be that He repents, because He knows all things before He does 
them; from which it is evident that by ‘repenting’ is signified mercy."

Derived Doctrine

"Now the word of the Lord came to Jonah the second time…"

 The word of the Lord coming to Jonah for the second time seems to convey a 
restoration—an opening again—of a covenant between heaven and earth. 
"The conjunction of heaven with man is by means of the Word, and the Word 
is called a covenant, because a covenant signifies a conjunction." (White 
Horse 10)

 A second time, perhaps, signifies an acknowledgment that a conjunction 

would involve "labor and combat." See AC 755 regarding the correspondence 
of "second." Two, or second, signifies conjunction. AC 5194 explains that two 
or twain represent the conjunction of the external natural with the things of 
the internal natural. Two also represents the conjunction of the will and 
understanding.

"Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and preach to it the message that I tell you…"

 AC 1612 teaches that to "arise" signifies a Divine edict to survey the heavenly 

kingdom.

 AC 2326 teaches that arising represents acknowledgment from the elevation 

of the mind, or a state of affection from charity.

49

 AC 3050 and 5605 add to the meanings of the word "go" this thought: it is to 

elevate one’s mind within to more interior things.

 Nineveh signifies falsities of doctrinal things from reasoning and contrived by

the proprium (selfhood). (AC 1184) Nineveh signifies falsities from the 
fallacies of the senses in the obscurity of an unenlightened understanding, or 
ignorance. (AC 1188 [2])

 To preach signifies about the same thing spiritually as naturally, but to teach 

rather than exhort. (AE 612)

 The "message I tell you…" directs us to the true source of mercy and 

salvation.

"So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord.

 Nota bene how well this verse repeats and ties together the derived teachings

we turned to above.

"Jonah began to enter the city on the first day’s walk."

 The city was a three-day journey in extent. This is the first day. "Day" signifies
the successive states of a person’s regeneration. (AC 6) "Three" signifies what 
is holy; Father, Son, and Holy Spirit; Love, Wisdom, and Use.

 That which is "first" sets the tone or theme for all that is to follow: 

Repentance, Reformation, and Regeneration.

"To enter the city…"

 To enter in, when predicated of the Lord, signifies to conjoin Himself to man.

(AE 251)

 A city denotes the order and organization of the interiors of the mind, 

specifically as to good and truth. (AC 3538)

"Forty days"

 Forty signifies the duration of temptation and likewise its vastation. (AC 730 

[2], AC 862, and AC 1963)

The people of Nineveh believed God, proclaimed a fast…"

 A fast signifies to mourn because of a lack of good and truth. (AE 1189 [2]) A 
fasting signifies to be in an unhappy state when good is no longer conjoined 
with truths. (AC 9182 [10])

50

Putting It All Together

The great city of Nineveh has many spiritual representations. The world saw 
Nineveh as a mighty nation, but in the eyes of the Lord, it represented the 
shallowness and weakness (death) of false doctrines, contrived beliefs confirmed by 
the proprium (self love), the fallacies of the senses, and the unenlightened 
understanding that spawns spiritual ignorance. The Lord’s mercy and love for all 
prompted Him not only to send His message to Nineveh, but to ensure that it would 
be preserved for eternity.

Jonah’s call to "arise and go" preach to Nineveh what the Lord told him is a call for 
spiritual renewal. It is a call for repentance. Thus, the fasting, sackcloth, and ashes 
symbolize a call to be aware that "where there is no truth, there is no church." Where
the Word is closed and not loved, there is a loss of conjunction with the Divine 
resources. The fasting of man and beast symbolizes a need for the spiritual and 
natural appetites to come to the Lord for that "bread which comes down from 
heaven." The Ninevites giving up their natural food and drink represents their 
turning away from the "as-of-self" concepts and reminds all who read and hear the 
Word of the Lord to rely on heavenly manna. "Why do you spend money for what is 
not bread, and your wages for what does not satisfy? Listen carefully to Me and eat 
what is good, and let your soul delight itself in abundance…" (Isaiah 55:2)

The king sitting in ashes and mourning represents a sorrowful attitude toward "the 
remains of the fire of self-love." Repentance involves: self-examination, making 
oneself guilty for the sins and evils committed, asking the Lord for His help, and 
desiring to attain a new life.

As we mull over this concept, think about the Lord’s preaching on earth. As He went 
about His mission, He often used these words: "You have heard it said of old…but I 
say unto you…" Putting aside human traditions and taking on the Lord’s teachings is 
an ongoing effort. Jonah was told to preach the words of the Lord. He was not to 
make things up from his memory. He was to be a true and faithful prophet of the 
Lord’s ways.

P&P tells us of the results of Jonah’s mission: "The nations, hearing from the Word
of God about their sins, and that they would perish, were converted after 
repenting, and were heard by the Lord, and saved."

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Jonah 3:1-10.

51

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. Where there is no truth, there is no church. Can you imagine any society 

where there is a total absence of truth? Could there be situations where truth 
is present but empty because people ascribe it to themselves and deny the 
Lord?

2. How did the Lord’s words to Jonah strike you when He said "…preach…the 

message that I tell you"? For me, those words carry power. Sermons, doctrinal
classes need to be carefully worked to keep the focus on the words of the 
Lord. Jokes, humor, have their place in the proper setting. Is the church or 
worship a proper setting?

3. Were you struck with the quickness of Nineveh’s repentance? First, the 
people of the city responded, and then the king did so with his call for 
national observance of fasting.

4. Was the literal sense of the king sitting on ashes to mourn clear enough that 
you can now make some application to a life situation? Ashes represent the 
remains from the fire of self-love. Can you recall some project or cause that 
carried you away and in spite of advice or a warning from the conscience you 
pressed on? Looking back you clearly see that your motives grew out of self-
love. In retrospect you now see what a waste of time it was. Instead of doing 
it for the good of the Lord or neighbor it was "all about ourselves." An 
unhealthy self-love leaves us with a burnt out useless pile of residue. What 
had appeared at the time a momentous cause really ended up a little thing 
that sadly was limited in eternal uses. Is this your insight of this king on the 
ashes scene? One last doctrinal thought: A king represents ruling loves. Is this
passage giving us a picture of the Lord as the mourning king or is it a picture 
of ourselves as a repentant king?

5. The Lord’s love for us is a major theme in this chapter. The impossible 

happening ought to give us cause to be thankful. What emotions usually 
accompany gratitude to the Lord? How do we associate gratitude and 
repentance, or do we? Should we?

6. Preaching should teach and not exhort. I’m still mulling over that quote from 
the Writings. Effective preaching, if it involves opening the spiritual sense of 
the Word, eventually brings some kind of exhortation. Could this be a 
reminder to teach and then let the Lord do the exhorting? Does teaching 
inspire self-exhortation? How and when?

52

Chapter Four

JONAH 4:1-11

"But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he became angry. So he prayed to the Lord, 
and said, ‘Ah, Lord, was not this what I said when I was still in my country? Therefore I 
fled previously to Tarshish; for I know that You are a gracious and merciful God, slow 
to anger and abundant in lovingkindness, One who relents from doing harm. Therefore
now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than live!’ Then 
the Lord said, ‘Is it right for you to be angry?’ So Jonah went out of the city and sat on 
the east side of the city. There he made for himself a shelter and sat under it in the 
shade, till he might see what would become of the city. And the Lord God prepared a 
plant and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be shade for his head to deliver 
him from his misery. So Jonah was very grateful for the plant. But as morning dawned 
the next day God prepared a worm, and it so damaged the plant that it withered. And 
it happened, when the sun arose, that God prepared a vehement east wind; and the sun
beat on Jonah’s head, so he grew faint. Then he wished death for himself, and said, ‘It is
better for me to die than to live.’ Then God said to Jonah, ‘Is it right for you to be angry 
about the plant?’ And he said, ‘It is right for me to be angry, even to death!’ But the 
Lord said, ‘You have pity on the plant for which you have not labored, nor made it 
grow, which came up in a night and perished in a night. And should I not pity Nineveh, 
that great city, in which are more than one hundred and twenty thousand persons who
cannot discern between their right hand and their left – and much livestock."

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"The Jewish nation became very angry at the salvation of the nations. A 
representation of their being inflamed thereat."

AE 401 [36]



"It is written in Jonah that ‘the gourd that came up over him withered, and 
that the sun beat upon his head, so that he fell sick.’ As this cannot be 
understood without explanation by the internal sense, it shall be explained in
a few words...This is a description of the genius of the Jewish nation, that they
are in the love of self and in falsities therefrom. Jonah was of that nation, and 
therefore also was sent to Nineveh; for the Jewish nation had the Word, and 
was therefore able to teach those who were outside of the church and who 
are called gentiles; these are signified by ‘Nineveh.’ Because the Jewish nation
was, above others, in love of self and in falsities from that love, they did not 
wish well to any but themselves, thus not to the gentiles, but these they 

53

hated. Because that nation was such, and Jonah represented it, he was very 
angry that Jehovah should spare Nineveh… This evil in that nation is signified
by the gourd which the worm smote so it dried up. ‘The sun that smote upon 
the head of Jonah’ signifies the love of self which was in that nation; and ‘the 
scorching east wind’ the falsity therefrom; and ‘the worm that smote the 
gourd’ signifies the destruction of this evil and the falsity thence. That this is 
the signification of ‘the gourd’ is evident from its being said in this 
description that Jonah at first ‘was glad over the gourd,’ and after the gourd 
had been smitten by the worm and had dried up that ‘he was angry over it, 
even unto death,’ and also from its being said that ‘he had pity over the 
gourd.’ That the Jewish nation, because it was in such a love and in such 
falsity…was liable to damnation is meant by these words to Jonah, ‘thou didst 
not cause it to grow up, because thou didst become a son of night, and a son 
of night perisheth." (Jonah 4:1, 3, 6-11)

AC 10441



"…‘repenting’ when said of Jehovah, denotes mercy, is plain [in Jonah 4:2]."

DSS 51 [2]



"It is said that Jehovah repenteth…and also that Jehovah repenteth not…
without doctrine these statements do not agree." (Jonah 4:2)

TCR 226 [2]

 Please note that this passage uses the same wording as the above passage 

and also refers to Jonah 4:2.

AE 419 [26]



"…by the wind coming from the east, which is called ‘the east wind,’ namely, 
that with the evil it disperses all the goods and truths which they presented 
in external form before the world, and all the truths which they talked about 
for the sake of appearances…" Jonah 4:8 is cited as an example.

Derived Doctrine

"Jonah became angry…"

 Anger signifies a grievous turning away from good. (AC 6358) A hot anger 

signifies repugnance and aversion. (AC 7791)

54

"…when I was still in my country, was not this what I said…"

 This passage indicates that Jonah, although he did the preaching for the Lord, 
never really did so from a changed heart. A country signifies the genius of 
each, in particular and general. (AC 1215) So it would appear that Jonah (the 
Jewish nation) was of the same mind, in generals and particulars, as when he 
tried to run the first time. Jonah mentions his fleeing to Tarshish.

The great platitudes regarding the gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and 
abundant in loving kindness.

 One might do well to remember Balaam when reading these words. He was 
hired to speak a curse on Israel, but the words of condemnation couldn’t be 
uttered.

 AE 140 teaches that Balaam signifies those whose understandings have been 
enlightened, and so teach truths, but who would yet love to destroy the 
church by craft. Jonah seems conflicted and yet hardened. He hates Nineveh 
and is in disbelief that the Lord would act contrary to his assumed spiritual 
correctness; he feels justified in excluding gentiles from the benefits of the 
Word and church.

"Is it right for you to be angry?"

 The Divine question is the Lord’s way of opening internal reflection. The Lord



knows the answer. Jonah needs to dig deeper to find the Lord’s answer.
Jonah wished to end his life. Hellish states burn with a desire to destroy 
others. Are we seeing the influence of hell wanting to destroy Jonah and make
him ashamed of what he had done in the name of the Lord?

"Jonah went out of the city and sat on the east side of the city."





Jonah left the city. In the positive sense, a city reflects the organization and 
protection of truth. Truth, like a physical city, offers homes, places of 
business, places of worship, protection, libraries, hospitals, etc. In the 
opposite sense, a city represents the falsification of truth. It would be like 
living in caves, bogs, and makeshift housing. It seems that Jonah left the 
doctrinal city. He had to find ways to justify his opposition to what the Lord 
had done for Nineveh.
Sitting on the east side of the city sounds like a case of justification. East is 
where the ancients believed the Lord resided. They faced east to worship 
Him. Was Jonah fabricating his reasons for wanting and waiting for Nineveh 
to have a fiery ending? Was he constructing "spiritual" reasons why the 
destruction should happen?

55

"There he made for himself a shelter and sat under it in the shade."





Jonah made shelter so as to have shade for his comfort. In the good sense, this
represents having a defense against evil and falsity. (AE 298 [5]) In the 
opposite sense, shade or shadow represents the mind darkening itself with 
reasoning from memory-knowledges. (AC 6723)
Sitting signifies a state of thought. (AC 2684) We are left with an idea that 
Jonah was reflecting on knowledges from his memory.

The gourd (the plant) and the worm

 A gourd represents love of self. A worm signifies the torment of internal pain.

(AR 763) A worm signifies falsities that destroy. (AC 8481)

"God prepared a vehement east wind…"

 East wind signifies a state of temptation and vastation. (AC 7679 [3]) It also 
signifies providing the means to dissipate falsity (AC 8201) and influx from 
heaven. (AE 538 [10])

"The sun beat on his head, so that he grew faint."

 Faintness signifies the failure of external good. (AR 381)
 The sun beating on his head illustrates how troubling the light of the Lord 

(the sun) was to his thoughts of dominion. The Jewish church’s belief that the 
Lord favored them over all nations was a great contributor to its self-love. (AC
250)

"Is it right for you to be angry about the plant?"

 This Divine question was put to Jonah with his best interests in mind. The 

Lord’s question goes to the heart of Jonah’s compassion. Do you care more for
the gourd and your comfort than for the people of Nineveh?
Sadly, the answer comes back, "It is right for me to be angry, even to death!"



The Lord recounts that Nineveh had more than 120,000 inhabitants who could not 
"discern between their right hand and their left—and much livestock."



I cannot find a correspondence for 120,000. AE 430 gives quite a detailed 
explanation of simple numbers multiplied with greater numbers. If you have 
a gift for math and numerology, please give this reference a try.

 For the meaning of right hand and left hand, see AC 10,061 [4]: "As most 
things in the Word have an opposite sense, so also have the right and 
left…‘the right’ signifies the evil from which is falsity, and ‘the left’ the falsity 
through which is evil…"

56

 A hand signifies ability, power, and therefore confidence. (AC 878)
 Putting these things together, one can see how desperately the Ninevites 

needed the Lord’s rescue. They were confused and unable to discriminate 
with power and confidence the degree of evil around them.

Putting It All Together

The Jewish Church would not reconsider its believe in its "favored nation status." 
The people, as represented by Jonah, could not and would not share the Word with 
other nations. They challenged the Lord. They could not believe that He wanted to 
save a worthless and cruel Nineveh. In this chapter, Jonah gives us a sense that he 
thinks he knows better than the Lord. His statements about the Lord seem to imply 
that He is a soft and loving God, with a forgiving side, who needed to come around to
Jonah’s tougher view on the plight of the gentiles.

The Jewish Church was going to hold fast to those things in its memory-knowledges 
about gentiles. Jonah was going to be angry. He believed he had a right to be angry. 
Jonah preferred death than seeing the Lord’s way save more than 120,000 people. 
Self love wanted shade, protection for its concepts. The Lord needed to bring such 
thinking to an end. The worm brought about death to the gourd from within. The 
Lord sent a vehement east wind to represent a blowing away of the stagnant 
thinking of the church. His heavenly sun shone upon them, but they felt faint. Their 
insistence on their own troubling view of things made them uncomfortable with the 
Lord’s view. The Divine questions offered them a way to learn to enjoy the success of
their neighbor as their own, but they would not.

Jonah as a representation of the Jewish church cared most for his own comfort, and 
he awaited the death and destruction of the gentiles. How sad for him. How 
wonderful for those who listened and repented because they heard the Word of the 
Lord.

Read and Review

Read the Selection from P & P.

Read Jonah 4:1-11

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1.

Is there a Jonah-like spirit still among us today? Do we have a smug sense of 
being a favored church? Are there still people who believe in ethnic purity?

2. Have you ever chosen your way over the Lord’s way? How do we resist the 
Lord’s enlightenment—choosing death, choosing to be angry instead of 
happy?

57

3. What little shelter have we built to protect us from the sun of heaven? How 
do we know when we are feeling faint or dizzy about spiritual things? What 
can we do about it?

4. What Divine questions can you recall hearing in your life that helped you 

reflect on a deeper level?

5. Do you feel a sense of sadness for Jonah? He went to preach the message of 

repentance. In spite of his half-hearted efforts, the Lord’s Word was 
powerfully effective. Jonah seems to have been ashamed of his work. Sound 
familiar?

6. How has this study changed your understanding of the story of Jonah and its 

meaning?

7. This study had us thinking about the mistakes of self-love within the Jewish 
Church. We also needed to see Jonah as being representative of the Lord and 
all that He had to fight against. Were you able to keep the two in mind as you 
read? When Jonah failed, it showed what maternal inherited tendencies the 
Lord overcame. The story of Jonah shows us the states of exinanition the Lord
overcame on His way to the Glorification of the His Divine Human. What is 
exinanition? It is the emptying out of all inherited tendencies from His 
mother Mary.

58

Epilogue: A Summary of the Four Chapters of Jonah

The following summaries are drawn from and expand on the outline given in Summary
Exposition of the Prophets and Psalms.

CHAPTER ONE

Those who were of the Jewish nation were commanded to teach the Word to the 
nations round about, but they would not, and thus they kept the Word among 
themselves alone.

Because of this decision, knowledges began to perish with them, and yet they lived 
unconcernedly.

The nations round about them perceived that the state of the Jewish church was 
perverted because of the loss of knowledges among the Jews, and that the Jews were
unwilling to impart any knowledge to people outside their own church.

The nations were shown that they should reject the falsified things of the Jewish 
nation so that they might be saved.

They prayed unto the Lord for salvation, which was effected for them, when the 
falsities from the Jewish nation had been removed.

CHAPTER TWO

This chapter deals with the prophecy concerning the Lord’s combats with the hells, 
concerning His most grievous temptations at the time, and concerning His state at 
the time; "the three days and nights during which Jonah was in the bowels of the 
fish" signify the entire duration of His combat with the hells.

CHAPTER THREE

The nations, hearing from the Word of God about their sins, and that they would 
perish, were converted after repenting, and were heard by the Lord, and saved.

CHAPTER FOUR

The Jewish nation became very angry at the salvation of the gentile nations. Jonah 
sitting on the east side of the city awaiting Nineveh’s destruction represents this 
anger. He enjoyed the shade of the gourd for a brief time. A worm came and 
destroyed the gourd. A vehement east wind blew upon him. He felt faint from the 

59

sun on his head. Jonah’s anger at his inconvenience made him chose death over 
seeing Nineveh saved. To help him see the good of the Lord’s work, Jonah was asked 
several questions by the Lord. These questions did not help Jonah repent. He 
remained very angry regarding Nineveh’s repentance and the Lord’s salvation of 
gentile nations.

60

