
=== Adult

Cover the lesson briefly, pointing out the various levels of meaning in the story. Then discuss the nature of a true man as an image of God, the difference between natural goodness and spiritual goodness, the necessity of continually adding knowledges to our memory, and the method by which they are brought to life and made means of producing genuine goodness.

In paragraph 4 of the Arcana Coelestia we read: 

"The first chapter of Genesis in the internal sense treats in general of the new creation of man, or of his regeneration, and specifically of the Most Ancient Church; and this in such a manner that there is not the least expression which does not represent, signify, and enfold within it these things."

Of the first verse we are told that "heaven" signifies the internal man; and "earth" the external man before regeneration.

In general this first chapter of the Bible describes truly the order of material creation. It is strange that the use of the word day has caused so many to believe that it is contrary to the findings of science, when we ourselves are quite in the habit of using day to express any general period of time: "in that day," "in the day of the cave dwellers," etc.

In the New Church we are also familiar with the thought that the development of every individual from infancy to maturity is pictured in this chapter and also the development of the first created human race from their primitive state of ignorance into a true church, the first or Most Ancient Church on earth. But we do not so often think of it in terms of the change which takes place in an adult of our own day as he passes from an unregenerate to a regenerate state. Yet it is true that every individual who has not come to recognize the Lord and brought his life into order according to the Lord's commandments from a desire to serve the Lord is as yet a mere potential man. However learned and cultured he may be, his mind is "without form and void" and the darkness of ignorance obscures the deeper possibilities of his nature. He is not truly a man. For man is man from being formed into the image and likeness of God.

This change of man from his natural state into his true form is called regeneration, or rebirth, and it is a gradual process. In some churches it is believed that a person is "saved" by a single religious experience called "conversion," but this is not the New Church belief. Conversion is necessary, but it may perhaps be likened to the coming of light on the first day and is only a beginning. In @AC 6-13 Swedenborg sums up briefly the meaning of the six days of creation in their application to the process of regeneration, and concludes: "Those who are being regenerated do not all arrive at this [sixth] state. The greatest part, at this day, attain only the first state; some only the second; others the third, fourth, or fifth; few the sixth; and scarcely anyone the seventh."

In the first lesson of this course we took up all seven stages in a brief general way. In the second we centered our lesson on the work of the fourth day. Of this Swedenborg says: "The fourth state is when man becomes affected with love, and illuminated by faith. He indeed previously discoursed piously, and brought forth goods, but he did so in consequence of the temptations and straitness under which he labored, and not from faith and charity; wherefore faith and charity are now enkindled in his internal man, and are called two 'luminaries'" (@AC 10). In this lesson we shall consider a little more fully the meaning of what took place on the fifth and sixth days.

Swedenborg says (@AC 11): "The fifth state is when the man discourses from faith, and thereby confirms himself in truth and good; the things then produced by him are animate, and are called the 'fish of the sea,' and the 'birds of the heavens.'" Until true love and faith (the sun and moon) make their appearance in a person's life, he believes that the truth he thinks and the good he does are from himself, and at this stage his grasp of truth and level of goodness are not really "living" and are pictured by the "grass, the herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit" (Genesis 1:11), but when he comes to acknowledge that all truth and good are from the Lord alone, the living creatures of the water, air, and earth appear. These are created in order. We may recall that seas picture knowledges gathered together in the memory, and that fish are memory knowledges "which belong to the external man" (@AC 40). What then is the difference between the seas and the fish? All knowledge comes to us first by an external way. Our minds are full of knowledges which we have gathered throughout our lives. But there is no life in these knowledges until we begin to draw them forth for the service of the Lord. Mere worldly and even intellectual use of them does not make them "fish." This is the lesson taught in John 21:3-6, where the net cast by the fishermen on the left side of the ship — the side of the intellect alone — drew in no fish, but when at the Lord's bidding it was cast on the right side — the side of the will or affection - "they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes." We must have the necessary memory-knowledges before we can make any spiritual progress, but it is the will to serve the Lord which gives them life.

@AC 40 goes on to tell us that "birds" generally signify rational and intellectual things, "of which the latter belong to the internal man." Once we have a desire to serve the Lord we draw knowledges from our memory to implement the desire. The next step is thought about them, rising to a higher level than mere worldly or temporal uses. So on the fifth day "man discourses from faith, and thereby confirms himself in truth and good."

The final stage, the sixth day, is described in @AC 12 as follows:

"The sixth state is when, from faith, and thence from love, he speaks what is true, and does what is good: the things which he then brings forth are called the 'living soul' and the 'beast.' And as he then begins to act at once and together from both faith and love, he becomes a spiritual man, who is called an 'image.' His spiritual life is delighted and sustained by such things as belong to the knowledges of faith, and to works of charity, which are called his 'food,' and his natural life is delighted and sustained by those which belong to the body and the senses; whence a combat arises, until love gains the dominion, and he becomes a celestial man." In @AC 45 we read that "beasts are of two kinds; the evil, so called because they are hurtful; and the good, which are harmless. Evils in man are signified by evil beasts, as by bears, wolves, dogs; and the things which are good and gentle, by beasts of a like nature, as by heifers, sheep, and lambs. The 'beasts' here referred to are good and gentle ones, and thus signify affections, because it here treats of those who are being regenerated."

From this, we learn that in the process of regeneration genuinely good affections are developed last of all. The writings throughout make a clear distinction between "natural good" and "spiritual good." We all inherit from our natural parents good as well as evil tendencies, but even the good tendencies we inherit are full of self. They are not spiritual or living. The Lord uses them as first means toward our reformation, but they are really the opposite of genuine good. We cannot trust our natural good intentions to produce either knowledge of what we ought to do or good works. Even on the sixth day, as we note in Swedenborg's explanation, "a combat arises, until love gains the dominion." The man created in the image of God had work to do. He was to "be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it." We never in this world reach a state in which acquiring new knowledge from the Lord and overcoming our evils become unnecessary.

