
=== Intermediate

This age group should be given in outline the correspondence of the Creation story with particular emphasis on the fifth and sixth days. The fact that each of us has a higher and a lower nature should be stressed, and that it is the higher nature which makes us human beings, so that the command to "have dominion" is one we should always have in mind. At this age children begin to feel that they should be allowed to make their own decisions and they particularly need to be shown what is the true standard for their decisions.

---
In beginning our study of the Bible we need to remember several things. First, it is the Word of God which we are studying, a series of books dictated by the Lord to teach us the things about Himself and about our souls which we could not possibly find out in any other way. Second, the Word is written in parable or story form so that we may read it easily and keep it in our memories, but its real meaning is in the spiritual lessons which are within the letter. Third, the first eleven chapters of the Bible were from the Ancient Word, which was written in symbol language; they are pure symbol stories rather than history. From chapter 12 of Genesis on, the Bible is for the most part truly historic as well as symbolic. Fourth, we need to read the Bible every day throughout our lives, because it brings us near to heaven and the Lord, and because the spiritual lessons within it can be opened to us only as we read its letter. You who are in the Intermediate class have reached the age at which you can begin to understand the general meaning within the stories you learn.

The story of creation given in the first chapter of Genesis has a great deal of truth in its letter. The Lord did create this earth and everything on it, and He created it by an orderly process of which the six days give us a good idea. When your grandmother says, "In my day we weren't allowed to do so and so," you know that she is not talking about any single day but about a certain period which was different from our modern "day." Each "day" in the Creation story was a long period of time. The earth had to be formed and brought into a certain order before any life could be created upon it. The dry land had to be established before plants could grow or animals could live. The seas had to be gathered together before there could be fish. And both plants and animals had to be created before man could live. This was the necessary and true order of the natural creation.

But we are men and women not because we have bodies but because we have souls, and in its inner meaning the story of creation is the story of how a human soul is formed, from its beginning, when it has both heavenly and earthly possibilities (verse 1) but no knowledge or understanding even of earthly things (verse 2) through the gradual dawning of understanding (verse 3) to the beginning of the formation of character (verses 6-13) and the beginning of the knowledge and love of God (verses 14-19).

It is only then that really living things can be produced in our lives, because all life comes from the Lord. You know that when you were little, you learned a great many things — how to eat, how to walk, how to talk, how to play, and finally how to study — and also you learned a great many things about how to please your parents and how to avoid the things for which you would be punished, but usually you did not really understand why one thing was good and another bad. But now you have reached the age when you begin to understand that it is the Lord's plan and order which determine what is good and that the most important thing in the world is to learn what the Lord wants us to do and then to do it. In other words the sun, moon, and stars — love for the Lord, belief in Him, and knowledge about Him — have appeared in your sky and you are ready to make real decisions on the basis of what you learn about the Lord. From now on you should try to think not, "What will bring me reward and what punishment?" but, "What is really right in the Lord's sight?" This is a time of very important change in your life and you need to know how to go about it.

And it is just this which is taught us in the story of the fifth and sixth days of creation. You probably remember from prior lessons that water "corresponds" to truth. This is because water was created by the Lord to perform the same services for the body that truth performs for the soul. The seas are water gathered together in quantity, and they picture truth gathered in the memory. Each of you already has a "sea" of memory. Now that you are trying more and more to think for yourself about right and wrong, things begin to come to life in your memory. The first living creatures produced were the fish in the seas. Do you remember that the first Apostles called by the Lord when He was on earth were fishermen?

The next things created were the birds. When you really want to know what you ought to do, and search your memory until you find some bit of knowledge that comes to life for your need, all sorts of thoughts begin to fly around in your mind. These are the birds.

Then the next step is the desire to do the thing you have decided is right. Animals correspond to our affections or desires, and the animals created by the Lord in our story are all good and useful desires.

When such good desires have been developed in our hearts, we are ready to be men and women in the true sense. For the thing which distinguishes man from all other created things is his ability to know and love the Lord and to choose freely to do what the Lord shows him is right. All other things are governed by the fixed laws of nature and by inborn instinct, but man is created in the image and likeness of God with the power to learn, to reason, and to act of his own free will.

We learn from our chapter that man was created as a race, both men and women. And we learn that mankind was given dominion over the earth and told to "subdue" it. This means that if we want to be true men and women, we must keep our bodies and all the things that belong to them under control. We must not let our appetites control us. You remember that in each of us at the very start there are "the heaven and the earth." Our "earth" is our bodies and all the thoughts and desires connected with them. Our "heaven" is the spiritual part of us which can know the Lord and serve Him, the part of us which we must develop if we are ever to live in heaven or even if we are to be truly happy in this world. We cannot develop this "heaven" in our souls unless we learn to subdue our "earth." Remember this when you are tempted to do wrong for the sake of getting something you want.

