
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is the age group with which we need to begin to speak of the letter of the Word as parable, while still teaching the details of the letter. In your introduction point out that the teaching the Lord gives us in His Word is necessarily spiritual — about Himself and our relation to Him — and not primarily about the things in nature which we can find out for ourselves. Then in connection with the Creation story call their attention to the way in which we develop from the innocence and helplessness of infancy to adult life. In speaking of the lesson proper suggest that the dominion we are told to exercise is over our lower thoughts and desires.

---
This year let us first see how much we can tell about the Bible as a whole:

By what other names do we call it?

Who is its Author?

Into what two main parts is it divided?

Through whom were the first five books given?

What did the Jews call these five books?

What is the first book called?

What does Genesis mean?

What does the first verse in the Bible tell us?

In how many stages or "days" did the Lord finish His creation? What did He do on the seventh day?

In this lesson we are studying especially what is said about the fifth and sixth days of creation. We should remember, however, that on the first day heaven and earth were created and light was given, on the second day the waters above the firmament were divided from those below the firmament, on the third day the waters were gathered together into seas and the dry land appeared and was made to produce grass and herbs and fruit trees, and on the fourth day the sun, moon, and stars appeared.

In this way the earth was prepared for habitation. You can easily see that there had to be an earth before animals and people could be created.

Why did the plants and trees have to be created before animals and men?

What were created on the fifth day?

What were created first on the sixth day?

What was the final creation?

Do you know that some people think that man is just a higher kind of animal who developed somehow or other out of the lower animals? This is not the teaching of the Word. The Word teaches that the different forms of life on earth were created in a certain order but not one out of another. Each kind of living being was a separate creation and only man was created in the image and likeness of God. And man was told to have dominion over all other living things.

The things which distinguish men from the animals are the ability to distinguish right from wrong and the ability to choose what they will believe and do and be. Animals are governed by their instincts and never can advance. Their bodies may develop and change to meet changing conditions in their surroundings, but they can never make changes themselves. And they can know only about the things which affect their bodies — food and shelter and warmth and protection are enough to satisfy them. A human being, however, has higher thoughts and desires. He not only can understand the earth and everything that belongs to it, but he can know about God and heaven, because he is made in the image and likeness of God. So whenever a person refuses to think about God and spiritual things and lives only for what he can get for himself out of the world — food and clothing, possessions and pleasures — he is reducing himself to a mere animal and cheating himself out of all that belongs to him as a human being.

Notice in verse 27 that both men and women were created at the same time. The familiar story in chapter 2 of the creation of Eve out of the rib of Adam has led people to think that one man was created first and then a wife was created for him and that all people came from these two individuals. But the story of Adam and Eve is a parable which teaches another lesson. When you are older, you will understand what it means. All of the Word is parable — a story which has a deeper meaning within it — although the greater part of the Word is also true history. Our chapter for today has a very deep meaning within it which you will study someday. But perhaps you will like to know that in the original language, which is Hebrew, the word which in chapter 1 is translated man is the same word which later is translated Adam. Adam simply means man, or mankind as a race. So when you see Adam in chapter 2 and elsewhere, you can remember that it is not really the name of a person at all. Mankind was created as a race. We have no way of knowing just how many individuals were placed on the earth by the Lord to begin with, but we do know that there were both men and women.

The other lesson which we need particularly to draw from the account of the fifth and sixth days of creation is that man was created to have dominion over all the things of the earth. This means, first, that everything else was created for the service of man, but it means more than this. A wise ruler does not use his power selfishly. He tries to understand all the things over which he has control, to know what they are for, and to cause them to work together for the benefit of his whole kingdom. This is what we should do with all the things of the earth which are given us to use. We need not only to study hard to understand the things of nature but to study also what the Lord made each thing for so that we may use it wisely. Perhaps we can understand this best if we take our food as an example. Many good things have been created by the Lord to nourish and strengthen our bodies so that we can do our work in the world better, and they have been made pleasant to our taste so that we will enjoy them. But suppose we like the taste of some particular thing so much that we forget what it is meant for and eat more of it than is good for us. Then we are letting that particular food rule us instead of keeping it under our control. Whenever you are tempted in this way, it will help if you remember that we are told to "subdue" the earth.

