
=== Notes for Parents

A very little thought will show us that the Bible is different from every other book in the world. It was written by the hands of many men over a period of more than fifteen hundred years and yet we think of it as a book written for us. It has been translated into over six hundred languages and dialects. Year after year it is the "best seller" of all books in the world. These facts alone should prove to us that the Bible was not the work of any man or men, but is truly the Word of God.

What should we expect of the Word of God? Should we expect it to teach us things which we can find out for ourselves, things about the natural world and about the outward history of men and nations? No, God would tell us about Himself, about our relation to Him, and about why He created us and what He wants us to do. And this is the kind of knowledge that people have always found in the Bible when they really looked for it. Wherever it has gone it has changed the course of history and transformed the lives of individuals.

But this meaning of the Bible is seldom found on the surface.

It is hidden within what seem to be mere stories of people and events, just as we tell children stories which have a moral hidden within them. For in the Lord's sight we are all children and have to be given the truth in words we can understand.

So our task in Sunday School and in the home is to teach the children the literal stories of the Bible and afterward, as they grow older and are able to understand, to give them something of the inner meaning of the stories.

Our lesson for today is again the first chapter of the Bible, the story of creation. It is really a parable telling us how a man or woman becomes a true human being, formed in the image and likeness of God. For it is our possibility of knowing and serving the Lord which makes us human and not merely higher animals. We want our children to become true men and women. So we must do all we can to lead them to know and understand the Word of God.

