
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Impress the children with the importance and holiness of the Bible as the Lord's Word. Then speak of the Lord as the Creator of everything and everyone and tell simply the story of the seven days, going into more detail with the fifth and sixth. In telling the Creation story try to get the children to think of the real difference between men and animals and the importance of trying to be as much like the Lord as we can. This is a good lesson in which to stress the fact that we ought to take care of all the good things that are given us and use them as they are meant to be used.

---
You know, don't you, that the Lord Jesus is our Heavenly Father? He made everything there is in the world. He made you and me. And long, long ago, He made the very first people. But He couldn't make them until He had made a world for them to live in. So first He made the heaven and the earth. Then He made day and night and then the dry land and the seas. Then He made grass grow out of the earth and then the grain and the fruit trees. He made the sun and the moon and the stars.

After that He made all kinds of fish to swim in the sea, and all kinds of birds to fly in the air, and all kinds of animals to live on the dry land. And finally He made men and women.

Why did everything else have to be created before men and women?

In whose image and likeness were men and women created?

This makes them very different from animals.

It means that they can study and reason, and can understand who the Lord is and what He wants them to do.

All animals can know is what makes them comfortable and contented. Everything in the world is made for some particular use.

What did the Lord say of everything when He had finished?

If you have a puppy, does he tell you what to do or do you tell him what to do? When the Lord made men and women, He put them in charge of everything else in the world. So you see people have to study and learn a great deal so that they may rule wisely. We have to learn about the world and everything in it and we have to learn just what everything is meant for. That is why we go to school.

But there is something else we have to learn. The Lord gave us everything we have that is good, and in the Bible He tells us what He wants us to do with what we have so that we and everyone else may be happy. So we need to study the Bible. That is why we go to Sunday School.

