
=== Senior

The nature of the Word and the nature of man are the essential lessons for the young people. If you can lead them to see that a person who lives for worldly satisfactions is cheating himself out of his birthright, you will have given them a valuable piece of spiritual armor. They also need to be shown the difference between deeds done with self in mind and deeds done in the spirit of unselfish service.

---
We begin our study of the Bible with the story of creation, and this is as it should be. For not only does all the rest of the Bible story depend upon this beginning, but unless we understand how and why man was created, our lives are aimless and without meaning.

In this lesson we consider especially the verses which describe the fifth and sixth days of creation, in which the fishes, birds, animals, and finally man appear. In the New Church we know that, while material creation did in general proceed in the order described in this chapter, the creation really treated of is the creation of a human soul into its intended form, the image and likeness of God.

For man is not merely, as some people choose to think, the highest of the animals. The animals are altogether of the earth. They have no thought or desire beyond the satisfaction of their physical wants. Man also has his physical nature and as long as he is in this world must spend much time in maintaining it, but even while he is in this world, his thoughts and affections may rise above the things of the body and the world. He has from birth a spiritual nature as well as a physical nature, and this spiritual nature must be developed and nourished if he is to become truly a man. Anyone who lives only for the satisfaction of his bodily and worldly cravings is living like an animal and not like a man.

When we are born, we have in us both spiritual and natural potentialities - "heaven" and "earth" - but both are without form and void and we are in the darkness of complete ignorance. Very early in our childhood, however, we begin to have some understanding — the light dawns in the mind. We begin to be conscious of ourselves as individuals, to gather knowledges into our memory, as the waters were gathered into the seas, and to distinguish between higher and lower kinds of knowledge. Our character is forming and we put forth the first little shoots of independent thought and do our first little deeds of kindness. But in the beginning we think of these thoughts and deeds as our own and are proud of ourselves for them. Swedenborg says that many people never get beyond this third "day" in their spiritual development.

The fourth day — which was the particular subject of our study in the preceding lesson — marks a great change, for the appearance of the sun, moon, and stars pictures a turning from self to the Lord, when we really see that all life and goodness and truth are from Him and nothing from ourselves. Then for the first time we are able to produce genuinely living thoughts and deeds, for nothing lives except from the Lord's presence in it. This is not so hard to understand as it may seem. Suppose we were to receive identical gifts from two different persons. One in giving his gift makes it clear that he thinks it is very good of him to give it and that he will expect us to be properly grateful and to do as much for him someday. The other gives his gift in such a way that we feel that he is not thinking of himself at all, but is happy in being able to make us happy. In the first gift there is no real goodness because there is only self-praise behind it. The second is full of unselfish love, which is the Lord's love expressing itself through the giver.

This new life develops in a certain order. On the fifth day the fish were created in the sea and then the birds in the air. We cannot produce anything without knowledge. We know that this is true of material things: we have to learn how to do a thing before we can do it. But we sometimes forget that this is just as true of our spiritual development. Unless we fill our memories with knowledge from the Word, we cannot progress in goodness. The faculty of knowing what is right lives in our "sea" of stored-up knowledge. You remember that the first Apostles were fishermen. Our knowledges must "come alive" with the realization that they are meant to serve the Lord. Then our thoughts, like the birds, begin to rise above the earth into the higher regions of our minds. Learning to do the Lord's will, to be true men and women, is a challenge to our highest powers.

The animals picture our affections. We have two basic mental faculties, the will and the understanding. Only when they act together do they accomplish anything. Sometimes we like to think about noble deeds but go no further than the thinking. Our will is not involved. The affections, which the animals represent, belong to our will. When they are aroused to carry out our knowledge and thought about right living, we become true human beings.

There is one further lesson we need to learn from this part of the chapter. After we have become true spiritual men and women, serving the Lord as we are meant to do, we must keep order in our lives. Man was told to have dominion over everything else on earth, to replenish the earth and subdue it. It is very easy to become self-satisfied and lazy spiritually and to imagine we can make no mistakes once we have become "good" people. But this in itself is a grave mistake. Read what the Lord said to the people through Moses in Deuteronomy 6:10-12. We never reach the state in which we do not need to be on our guard against letting worldly and selfish thoughts and desires control us.

