
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What book do we study in Sunday School? Bible

Junior: Why is it called the Word of God? God's Word to us

Intermediate: How do the first eleven chapters of Genesis differ from the rest? pure symbol

Junior: Into what two parts is the Bible divided? Old Testament and New Testament

Junior: What are the first five books called? Moses, Law, Torah, Pentateuch

Primary: What is the name of the first book? Genesis

Primary: What does Genesis mean? the beginning

Junior: Can you repeat the first verse of the Bible? In the beginning ...

Primary: In how many days are the earth and everything on it said to have been created? six

Junior: Does this mean days of twenty-four hours each? no

Junior: What appeared on the fourth day? sun, moon, stars

Intermediate: To what do the sun and moon correspond? love to God, faith in Him

Primary: What were created on the fifth day? fish, birds

Primary: What were created first on the sixth day? animals 

Primary: What was the final creation? man

Junior: How was man different from every other living creature? image of God

Junior: What was he told to do? multiply, subdue earth

Junior: Was just one created in the beginning? no

Junior: What happened on the seventh day? God rested

Intermediate: What kind of lessons does the Lord teach us in the Bible? about Himself and our relationship to Him

Intermediate: To what do the fish, birds, and animals correspond? knowledges, thoughts, affections

Senior: What does the command to "have dominion" mean? control

== THE CREATION — THE SEVENTH DAY — Genesis 2:1-7

The lesson in all the classes should begin with some brief discussion of the nature and purpose of the Bible, followed by emphasis on its first book and on its first verse, and then a very brief review of the first six days of creation. The notes for the various age groups will suggest the level at which this review should be carried in each class. Not more than half the lesson time should be used for this introductory work.

