BOOK OF JUDGES.

SERMONS

IN EXPLANATION OF

THE SING ULAR HISTORIES

RECORDED IN THE PORTIOif OF

THE SAORED VOLUME

COl\IPRISED IN

THE FIRST ELEVEN CHAPTERS OF JUDGES.

.i.E LATE

REV. SAlVIUEL NOBLE,

AUTHOR OF "THE PLENARY INSPIRATION OF THE SCRIPTURES ASSERTED,"
&c. &c.

LONDON:
JAMES S. HODSON, 22, PORTUGAL STREE1',
LINCOLN'S INN.
1856.

Y-i G

<)

, '/..

London:
Printed 7Yu J.8. Hodson, 22, PortugalStreet,
Lincoln', Inn.

PREFATORY EXPLANATION.

now first printed,
fJ.1 H E delivery of the "Sermons on Judges;"
was commenced by the Author in July, 1822, at
the place of
worship, which the Cross Street Society then occupied, in Lisle
They
Street) London, and was concluded ill February, 1823.
formed, originally, a continued series from chapter i.
to chap 
ter xi.; but a portion only of
the first sermon has been found,
which-c-is here introduced in the form of Preliminary Observa 
tions) and not a vestige of the second; so that the present volume
commences with what was really the third sermon of the series.
The sixth and seventh verses of the first chapter of Judges, re 
lating to the capture, punishment, and death of Adoni-bezek,
formed the subject of the first three sermons, but the text
to the
third (now the first) had been re-transcribed by the Author, and
ernbraces, as printed, from the first to the seventh verses inclusive.
the Author intimates that it had been his intention
In sermon xviii.
to carryon the series to the end of the history of Samson.
'I'he
circumstances that prevented it are thus stated,-" We have but
two Sundays more to continue in our present place of worship,
and it will not be expedient, on opening the chapel in Hanover
Street, where we must invite the public in general to come and
hear us, to begin with the latter part of a series of discourses."

Some of these discourses were delivered on more than one occa 
sion, and alterations were marked in pencil to render them, prin 
cipally by omissions, suitable for the special purpose; it has been
considered desirable however to restore thorn to their original state
as far as possible.
Some of them were entirely re-written by
relating to the death
the Author:

thus of sermon ix, (anel x.),

IV

Prefatory Explanation.

of Sisera, which he preached in Cross Street Church, Septem 
ber 13, 1846, he says, "About three years since, in a series of
discourses on parts of this book of Judges, I delivered one on the
war of the Israelites with Jabin, a Canaanitish prince, who reigned
in Hazor, an Israelitish city; as related in the preceding part of
this chapter; but I did not then offer any explanation of the ex 
traordinary termination of the conflict, by the dreadful act of a
'woman; as related' in the verses I have now read. Twenty-four
years ago; indeed, I delivered a discourse upon these verses, and
considered the circumstances of the awful narrative at
large; but
the manuscript of that sermon having been lost by friends, by
whom it was borrowed, I have never taken up the subject again,
and ,have not now the smallest recollection of the manner in which
I treated it. However,
it being so very extraordinary a part of
the Word of God, and constituting so important a link in the
chain of subjects contained in the present and subsequent chapters,
which I have not so very long since considered, I have thought it
might not be unacceptable, or unprofitable,
if I make it the sub 
ject of our meditations afresh."

Sermon xv, was also entirely re-written in 1846, and preached
'I'he Author says that above twenty years
in Cross Street Church.
before, when he originally preached from the Book of Judges,
he had fully treated the remarkable circumstances relating to
Gideon, contained in chapter vii. verses 2-7, "but that sermon,"
he adds, "was lost-lost at
least to me; as I never could recover
it from a gentleman (not a member of the New Church) who
borrowed it,
though I often applied for it, and he always assured
me it w-as safe."

Thus three sermons were re-written by the Author more than
twenty years after the original delivery, in order to make the series
complete to a certain point.

All the original discourses appear to have been delivered at N 01" 
wich in the year 1828, as the name of that city is writtenupon
the covers.
In all probability they were lent to the Society for the
use of the leader for the time being. They could not have been
delivered th,ere by Mr. .Noble, as they were preached on consecu-

Prefaioru Explanation.

v

tive Sundays through several months, and while he was necessarily
engaged ill his ministerial duties in London.

Some of the subjects touched upon in this volume are treated
more extensively in the Author's celebrated Work,-to which the
reader is referred,-entitled The Plenary Inspiration of the Scrip 
tures asserted, originally published in 1825, but of which a new
and cheaper edition has recently appeared.

In preparing these Sermons for the press, the utmost care has
been taken faithfully to preserve the original matter intact 
some evidently
nothing has been omitted, added, or altered;
clerical oversights only, having been corrected. That the 'York
may be blessed to the good intended by the Author, and tend to
the enlightenment and edification of the reader, is the sincere hope
of those who have been active in its publication.

a*

PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS.

that

the journey of the
IT is generally admitted by Christians,
to the wilderness, is representative of the
Israelites from Egypt
progress of man from a natural state to a spiritual one:
though I
believe their ideas even "Then thus spiritualizing, as they term it,
the Scriptures, are so external, that they consider the wilderness
merely as an emblem of this world, and Canaan as an emblem of
It is true that Canaan represents heaven when it is con 
heaven.
sidered as peaceably possessed by the children of Israel; it is also
true that the Christian is really, as to his internal man, introduced
into heaven when he arrives at the state represented by the passing
over Jordan; but that 11e cannot be actually in heaven at this time,
is evident from this, that he then has to wage a war of extermina 
tion with the inhabitants of Canaan; and certainly his warfares
must all be ended before he actually goes into heaven.
however, not only that all
the period during which the Israelites
were conducted by Joshua, was a period of war, but that a fresh
series of conflicts began immediately after his death;
the first
of which was that which led to the extraordinary occurrence men ..
tioned in the 1st chapter of Judges respecting Adoni-bezek. Here
then it is evident that something distinct from the admission of
man after death into heaven, must be meant by the introduction
of the Israelites into Canaan. As 110\VeVer the nature of the Israel.
itish history is a very curious and important subject, and a right
understanding of which will greatly assist us ill obtaining correct
ideas of the nature of the 1-101y VVord in general, I will ruake some
general
this whole book of
Judges abounds with singular histories, more than any other book
of the "'iVord, we probably may afterwards continue our remarks in

respecting it. And as

,¥e find

remarks

VIII

Prelinzinary Observations.

a series of discourses on the whole; at present, then, we will con 
fine ourselves to some preliminary observations.

The numerous singular occurrences which distinguish the affairs
of the children of Israel, as recorded in the historical parts of the
Old Testament, are calculated to excite very different
impressions
in those who read them, according to the general bias and prevail 
ing inclinations by which they are influenced. The simple and
well disposed but un-enquiring mind, beholding in so many in 
stances such extraordinary interferences on the part of a Divine
Power, will read with simple devotion, and will gladly appropriate
the general lesson, apparent throughout the whole,-of the bless ...
ings which are ever consequent upon a faithful obedience to the
divine commandments, and the judgments which ever await dis...
obedience and rebellion. They, on the other hand, who, while they
pride themselves upon their superior discernment and po,vers of
ratiocination, are too well satisfied with the pleasures and pursuits
that the world sets before them, to be willing to think much about
a state of future existence, infer from the extraordinary nature of
much of the Israelitish history, 'that more is related than is really
true; and as no such instances of immediate interposition from
heaven occur at the present time, they conclude that every preten 
sion of the kind, in any age, must be unfounded. They also endea 
vour to find inconsistencies in the sacred narrative, and where they
see any thing that wears the appearance of being such, they assume
it as a decisive proof that none of the context could have proceeded
from •. divine inspiration.

Whilst, however, it is a most certain fact,

that all denial of the
divine inspiration of the Scriptures, and all reasonings against them,
originated in human pride, and in a disinclination towards the ad...
mission of any thing of a truly spiritual nature, we nevertheless
would by no means affirm that all who ever entertained any doubts
on these subjects, or who find any difficulties in the Holy Word,
which they are at a loss how to reconcile with a belief in its divine
origin, are persons of reprobate minds, whose doubts and difficulties
are to be treated with contempt. We believe the Holy ,Vord is
the great medium of conjunction between heaven and earth,-the

Prelimina1·y Observations.

IX

,

primary vehicle by which divine influences, including all inclinations
and thoughts that are really good and true, are conveyed into the
hearts and understandings of mankind, If there were no Church ex 
isting on the earth, composed of persons whose minds are enlightened
by the Holy Word, and who, instructed thence, frame their lives
according to its requirements, there could be no communication
whatever between the Lord and man,
the consequence of which
would be that the human race must perish ; whereas, whilst there
is such a medium for preserving the connexion between the Author
the nations,
of life and the recipients, it is conveyed through all
however uncivilized, that inhabit the globe, who all are kept, by
means of it, in a state capable of being saved.
For in the eye of
the Lord, the whole human race compose, in a manner, one human
form of which the church which reads the Word, constitutes the
heart and lungs, whilst the other tribes form the less noble organs
and members; and as no single human body could live without a
heart and lungs, into which life first flows from the soul, and is
thence circulated with tho blood throughout
the whole of tb e
system: so the body universal of mankind, could not subsist with 
out a church enligbtened by the 'IVord to be to it as a heart and
Iunes in which spiritual life is first received from the Lord, and is
thence distributed through the whole of the mass. Viewing, then,
a belief in the Holy Word as being of such great importance, we
must needs consider the denial and rejection of it, by any who
live where it is known, as a most awful calamity to themselves j
and as taking its primary cause, not from any superiority of intel 
lect, as they themselves would fain have us believe, but from a hid 
den principle of evil in the heart, which exerts an influence upon
their understanding, in a manner they do not suspect, and leads
them to prefer views which leave them at liberty to act, as far as
outward circumstances will permit, acccorc1ing to every impulse
which perverted nature may cause to spring up in their minds.
This it is that makes them sharp-sighted in detecting what they
conceive to be inconsistencies in the writings of'which Divine Reve 
lation is composed, and which has given birth to the numerous
publications, distinguished sometimes by subtlety and sometimes

b

,

Preliminary Obseroations.

Xl

flow beautiful on this subject are the experimental de 
from us.
"Through thy precepts I get under 
clarations of the Psalmist!
therefore I hate every false way."-Again; "I have
standing;
more understanding than all my teachers;
for thy testimonies are
my meditation." And since the Word is thus, as to its essence,
the Very Divine Truth Itself, the eternal truth of God from ever 
lasting to everlasting, how true is the Psalmist's declaration re 
specting it: {c Thy word is true from the beginning; and everyone
of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever."

x

Preliminary Observations.

-by railing, in which attempts are made to overthrow the Christian
religion, and, as an important step thereto, to destroy their credi 
bility.

These remarks may tend to prove the duty of making the read 
ing of the Word, both by young and old, a matter of daily prac 
tice. The mere reading, even where nothing is understood beyond
_what the letter expresses, may have the effect of bringing around
us a heavenly influence, and of storing in our interiors) affections
for divine things and delights in which angels themselves partici 
pate. But to have this effect, be it understood, it must be read
either by innocent children, or by adult persons who are in the
devout acknowledgment of its divine and holy nature. Where it is
read with carelessness, as it does not then penetrate into the mind
of the reader, it is productive of no communication with heavenly
societies; whilst, if read by a perSOll who is not merely ignorant of
the true import of what he reads, but who endeavours to apply it
to the confirmation of any false doctrine, especially any that tends
to sanction an evil life, it not only produces no good effect, but is
in reality attended with a bad one; as the VVord, when thus falsi 
fied in the mind, is exceedingly offensive to angels and good spirits,
themselves from the person, and thus
who immediately avert
heaven,
is more firmly closed
against him. But the Word is not falsified when any part of it is
applied to confirm a doctrine or sentiment that is true in itself,
although that doctrine or sentiment may not in reality be taught
in the passage applied to it. Be it then our care, and let us esteem
it our privilege, often to impress our minds with the lessons of
divine wisdom contained in the sacred Volume. Let us, where we
understand nothing beyond the mere letter, ever read it with holy
reverence and devotion. Let us too be careful to impress upon our
hearts the practical precepts which are every where interspersed
through it; and let us remember, that to regulate our affections
and practice by such precepts, is the only effectual way to acquire
any. permanent knowledge of the sacred contents that lie within the
letter: since whatever is learned in the memory only, without
entering the life, never becomes our own, and will finally be taken

instead of being opened to him,

SEI1l\10NS ON JUDGES.

SER~ION I.

Judges i. 1-7.
ct Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of
Israel asked the Lord, saying, Who shall go up for us against the
Canaanites first, to fight against them? And the L01~d said, Judah
shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand. And
Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up witlt me into my lot,
that we 1nay fight against the Canaanites: and I likewise will go
with thee into thy lot.
So Simeon went with him, And Judah
went up,. and the Lord delivered the Canaanites' and the Periz 
zites into their hand ; and they slew of them in Bezek ten thousand
men. And they found Adoni-bezek in Bezek: and they fought
against him, and they slew the Canaanites and the Periszites.
But Adoni-bezek fled ; and they pursued after" him, and caught
him, and cut off his thumbs and his great toes, And Adoni-bezek
said, Threescore and ten kings, having their thumbs and their great
toes cut off, gathered their meat under my table: as I have done,
80 hath God requited me. And they brought lti1n to Jerusalem,
and there he died.

IT is abundantly demonstrated in the doctrines of the New Church,
that the whole Word of God contains a spiritual sense under the
veil of the literal expression, and that this is true in regard to the
historical narratives, as well as.in regard to the prophecies, psalms,
and the rest. At the same time it is largely shewn in those doc 
trines, and is a truth never to be laid out of sight, that the existence
in the ,;Vord of God, by no means
of a spiritual sense universally,
interferes with the reality of the facts literally recorded. This I
mention because our sentiments in this respect have been often
misrepresented. We do not, as Paul declares of the Christian dis 
pensation in general, make void the law of G-od by the faith we
possess in its interior contents, but we establish the law; main 
taining the literal sense as we found it, and believing the facts

1

2

Sermons on Judges ~

[Serm.

Chap. i. 1-7.

3

narrated to have really-taken place; while we conceive that by be 
lieving them all to be at the same time representative of spiritual
things, we behold them in a light which renders them worthy of
possessing a place in the very Word of God, and we embrace a view
of them which does not abolish the sacred Record, but fulfils it, by
shewing it to involve contents which fill it indeed, and without
which it would be but an empty shell, exhibiting little that could
establish its divine original.

In the brief history before us,

is con tained in general, in the
spiritual sense, an account of some of the operations which take
place in the human mind in the course of its regeneration; whilst
regeneration itself consists in the extirpation from the heart, of
those evil inclinations to which we are all naturally prone, and
the establishment in their place of heavenly graces, of pure affec 
tions, and enlightened perceptions, prompting to, and producing,
a life of goodness.

that it is a sudden,

As to the nature and order of regeneration, there cannot be a
greater mistake than to imagine,
instantane 
ous operation; whether it be supposed to be something of an in 
explicable nature which takes place, without any consciousness in
the moment of baptism, or to be the result of
the subject of it, at
an impression on the hearts of persons of riper years, by which,
in
consequence of their being enabled to lay hold with faith on the
they
redemption by the bloodshedding of the Lord Jesus Christ,
experience full remission of their sins, and become sensible that
they are the children of grace. What can properly be meant by
the forgiveness or remission of sins by the Lord, but the removal
of the attachment to them from the human heart? So long as any
sin reigns with us, it cannot be forgiven. All sin is the love and
practice of evil in contrariety to the Divine laws, and it can only
be really remitted to man as he ceases from such love and practice.
If then all the evils which lurk in his heart can be desisted from
as to all inclination as well as commission, in a moment, then can
their remission take place in a moment, and the man be regene 
rated at once. But how different is this from what anyone ever
really experienced,-even they who fancy the whole to be an in 
stantaneous work!
It is true that states are sometimes enjoyed,
in which a peculiar elevation towards the Lord and heavenly things
is felt, -and it may seem for a time as if nothing could ever more
disturb the soul: but although such states may be experienced,
'not once only, but many times, yet they are always but seasons, as
to support further
jt were, for recruiting' the mind,

to enable it

conflicts j , and no one on this side the grave was ever permitted to
abide ill them without intermission, and without feeling afterwards
that more remained to be done to complete his purification.
In
short, as it is evident to everyone who ever reflects on what passes
daily in himself, that the human mind consists of an innumerable
variety of faculties,
tendencies, and affections, and that new in 
clinations, such as had not before come to light, from time to time
are developed in it; so must it be evident to everyone who thinks
consistently on the subject, that the.renewal of the mind, by the'
extirpation or removal of whatever it contains which is of an evil
nature, and the insemination and confirmation of what is good in
its place, which is what is called regeneration, must be a gradual
work, and that to expect it to he performed in a moment IS just as
reasonable as it would be to expect a child at
the moment of its
the intel 
birth to spring up a full-grown man, furnished with all
lectual acquisitions which can adorn the most perfect of the species
in its highest state of improvement,-or to suppose that the acorn
which drops from the oak to-day, will immediately on its touching
in magnitude to the most
the ground, spring up into a tree equal
magnificent ornaments of the forest.

Whilst, however, we observe, that new stages in the regenerate
life ,vill continually open_ as long as we live here, even with those,
(and 1110re with such than with others,) who are 1110st intent on
advancing in that necessary work, and of course that new recesses
in the human heart will from time to time be opened, and evils not
before suspected to exist be brought to light in order that they may
be removed,-it is necessary to be understood, that some of the
stages of this work are so completely distinct, that part of them
the others being ever commenced;
may be undergone without
which is the reason that
there are three distinct heavens, the in 
habitants of which have no direct communication 'with each other.
Noone can enter into heaven at all, unless the evils of his nature
are removed by repentance and regeneration; but with those who
enter the first heaven, this takes place only as to the more general
and external manifestations of the evil propensities which lurk
the more particular concupiscences of evil
within us all, whilst
which lie further within, are never opened, and having thus never
been brought into exercise} do not prevent the person from receiv 
ing heavenly graces to such an extent, as to occupy all that part of
his mental frame which is actually opened in him, whilst all that
lies beyond is completely separated from his perception and obser 
vation, and nothing thence is ever permitted to flow to disturb the

Sermons on Judges.

[SerUL

L]

Chap. i. 1-7.

5

peace and happiness of which he is made a partaker.
So again
with those who rise to the second heaven, whilst the evils of their
in a deeper
nature have been manifested, overcome, and removed,
ground than those of the former, still they have a reserve, as it
were, behind, in a quiescent state, of which they know nothing.
With those of the third heaven,
this again has been brought to
light, overcome, and removed; and thus the evils of their nature
being extirpated, as it were, from a deeper ground still,
their re 
ception of heavenly graces and beatitudes is proportionally more
deep and full:
though after all, as whatever has once formed part
of the mind can never be so extirpated as no longer to exist at all,
being in reality only removed from the seat of the person's affec 
tions, thoughts, and actual observation, the highest angel can never
be so purified but that, as to himself, or his own selfhood viewed
by itself, unconnected with what he has received from the Lord,
he is still nothing but evil. This he knows, but does not actually
experience, because, as just intimated, this is kept for ever with 
held from his actual affections; and in this state it is made to him
a means of exalting his heavenly attainments by furnishing him
with a basis of profound humility, according to the depth of which
is his capacity of more fully receiving divine gifts. And what is
remarkable, it is in proportion as every thing of man's selfish na 
ture is more completely removed, and as he is thus more free from
its influence, that he is more fully sensible of its real quality, and
is in- consequence more deeply conscious of his own unworthiness;
which however becomes in this case not a painful sensation, but the
contrary, as it imparts a keener feeling of the Lord's divine mercy,
by which such unworthiness is made receptive of such graces and
felicities.

Now the passage before us treats of that manifestation of the
deep-seated evils of the human heart which takes place after the
first general stage of regeneration has been gone through, and the
necessity which is then seen, in order to our obtaining possession
of our allotted inheritance in the promised land) or being established
in a state which will qualify us for the heaven which is now, las it
were, opened before us, that these evils themselves should be en 
countered and subdued.
It is hardly necessary to state, that in no
part of our religious career is the practice of evil to be indulgcU in;
but it is not till some considerable progress is made, that the nature
of the internal concupiscences from which all outward cvilsIiave
birth, is clearly seen, and that, by divine aid, they are subdued and
to infest us with their influence any more.
cast out, so as not

that

the Canaanites first,

This perception is expressed in the first verse of our text by its
the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying,
being said,
C( Who shall go up for us against
to fight
against them ?" And the reason why Judah was pitched upon, is
because Judah represents the chief heavenly grace which can have
a place in the human mind, and this is declared by the Lord Him 
self to be the grace of love to him. But as love in the will, unat 
tended by a corresponding perception of truth in the understand 
ing, would not have power to accomplish its own objects, therefore
Judah took Simeon his brother to accompany him in the expedi 
tion: because Simeon represents that kind of faith which imme 
diately tends to come into action.

Now that it may not appear as if these explanations were offered
arbitrarily, or at random, it may be useful to support them with a
few explanatory observations

It must have struck everyone who ever read the Scriptures with
any attention, as a remarkable coincidence, that the number of
persons whom the Lord selected to be his more immediate fol 
lowers, and whom He named apostles, should be precisely the same
as that of the sons of Jacob; and there are many things which
lead us to conclude that this was not the result of any thing like
chance, but of peculiar and important reasons. Thus it is no less
remarkable that the number in both cases should be twelve,
this
being a number which is mentioned in the Word on so many oc 
casions, as to make it quite clear that some distinct meaning must
be attached to it. Thus Ishmael the SOIl of Abraham, had twelve
sons as well as Jacob. When the Israelites came to Elim, soon
after their deliverance from Egypt, they found there twelve wells
of water.
In the high priest's breast-plate were set twelve precious
Twelve spies were sent to explore the land. The battle
stones.
for the succession to the throne between the followers of Ishbosheth
the son of Saul, and the followers of David, was commenced by
twelve combatants on the side of Ishbosheth, and twelve on the
side of David.
Solomon's brazen sea stood upon twelve oxen, and
twelve lions were sculptured to stand by the steps of his throne.
Elijah took twelve stones to build an altar; and when he went in
quest of Elisha he found Lim ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen.
The altar seen by Ezekel in his vision was twelve cubits long and
twelve broad. A woman healed by the Lord had been diseased
twelve years. After the miracle of the five loaves and two fishes,
they took. up of the fragments that remained twelve baskets full.
A damsel whom the Lord raised from the dead was of the age of

1*

·6

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

tuielue years. vVhen Jesus Himself was twelve years old he entered
into conversation with the doctors in the temple. When the mul 
titude came to apprehend Him, I-Ie said that if I-Ie were to desire
it the Father would presently send Him more than twelve legions
of angels. The woman seen by John in the Revelation had upon
her head a crown of twelve stars. The New Jerusalem had tioelue
gates and ~t the gates twelve angels; and the wall had tzvelve
foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the
Lamb.
'I'hc tree of
life seen in the street bore twelve manner of fruits. The length,
breadth, and height of the city was tioeloe thousand furlongs; and
that of the wall was one hundred and forty-four cubits) which is
twelve times twelve.
So when those of the tioeloe tribes of Israel
were sealed, the number sealed was twelve thousand of each tribe.

The twelve gates also were twelve pearls.

These are but a portion of the passages in which the number
twelve is mentioned in the Holy Word, but they are amply suffi 
cient to shew, that that number cannot have been selected on so
many occasions without a peculiar meaning, What that meaning
is could be illustrated from all the instances where it is mentioned,
but in none does it appear more evident than in the case of the
tree of life. What can be supposed to be meant by the fruits of
the tree of life? What but the graces which adorn the minds of
If so) the fruits of the
those who are the subjects of life eternal?
tree of life must include all these graces:
this then is signified by
the number twelve.
In reference to spiritual things) which are not
properly the subjects of the natural qualities denoted by dimension
and number, numbers must be interpreted in a manner that can
properly apply to them; and the number ttoeloe is nlwnys used to
denote all heavenly graces in one aggregate collection) or all
the
goods and truths of the church brought into one general form.
There is however always a variety according to the subject treated
of. Thus as fruits always signify such things as have relation to
goodness, the twelve fruits of the tree of life signify ill particular,
all the kinds of heavenly good, in one complex, with which man, as
to his spiritual part, is nourished by the Lord: but as gates signify
what introduces to the church, and this is the knowledge of good 
ness and truth,
therefore the twelve gates of the holy city signify
all the species of the knowledge of goodness and truth in one com-
plex, that serve for introduction into the church.

.

.

N ow the twelve tribes of Israel, and the twelve apostles, signIfy, 
in like manner, in a sense abstracted from persons, all the heavenly
in one
graces, or affections of goodness and perceptions of truth,

7

Chap. i. 1-7.

i.J
aggregate collection, that compose and constitute the church among
mankind and in man individually; they also signify all the members
of the church thernselves, or all
those in whom the graces consti 
tuent of the church have a residence. This is very evident from
the Apostle's vision of the N ew Jerusalem. Whether this vision
represented, as we conceive, a new tchurch on earth, or whether,
according to the common notion, it represented the state of saints
in heaven, it is impossible to suppose that it had any tliing to do
with the Jews in particular; yet on the twelve gates were written
the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. Can this
be supposed to mean that none but the children of Israel according
to the flesh, are to enter this city? This is impossible. How plain
then is it,
that the children of Israel are here mentioned as types
of the true members of the church, and that by their names being
that all who possess the heavenly
written on the gates is meant,
graces represented by the children of Israel, will have full means
and opportunity afforded of entering into this happy state.

There really does .seem nothing more evident to the mind that
is willing to see in the Holy Word things worthy of God to reveal,
than that such must be the true signification of the children of
Israel: All the tribes of Israel represent the various graces con 
stituent of the church, and the persons in whom they dwell;
represent
follows that each tribe individually must
whence it
some eminent heavenly grace in particular, and a class of per 
sons in whom that grace is most conspicuously displayed. As
then Judah was always the first of the tribes in power and dignity,
-it is natural to infer that he must represent the first of the graces
which distinguish a spiritual mind; and this, as just noticed, is
declared by the Lord I-limself to be, the love of Him , not a barren
love which loses itself in unprofitable contemplations upon His per 
son, but the love of every thing that constitutes His essence or
nature; as intimated by the Lord when He says, "If ye love Me,
keep my commandments."
It is equally evident that Adoni-bezek,
against whom the tribe of Judah were obliged to go to war, and
whom it was necessary that they should subdue before they could
take possession of their allotted portion, must denote that principle
of evil in the human heart which is diametrically opposite to this
active love of the Lord; and this is the love of self. What then is
therefore meant by the victory of Judah and Simeon over him, and
the singular manner in which he was treated, being punished with
the amputation of his thumbs and great toes?

The cutting off of these members of the body, being those on

8

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm. i.]

which all the power of the body greatly depends, represents the
depriving of the principle of self-love, represented by Adoni-bezek,
of its po\ver.
So greatly is a person crippled by the loss of the
thumbs and great toes, that it is a maxim in surgery never to am 
putate them when hurt by any accidents, unless there arc no other
means of saving the person's life. The loss of a thumb or great
to that
toe is an injury to the power of the human frame next
which would result from the loss of a hand or a foot
'I'he reason
is, because all power is exercised by, and resides in, whatever is last
in order, both in living and other subjects: hence the hand, as
being the extremity of the arm, and the thumb, as being the chief
extremity of the hand, both exercise and form the instruments of
the power which the human frame exerts by means of those organs.
The case is the same,
in a lower sphere still, with the foot and
great toe. Thus the hand and thumb are emblems of the power
which man exerts from his intellectual and spiritual faculties, whilst
toe express that which belongs to his mere
the foot and great
It was in consequence of this representation of the
animal nature.
thumbs and great toes, that when the high priest was consecrated
it was directed that some of the blood of the sacrifices should be
put upon the tip of his right ear, the thumb of his right hand, and
the great
to denote that the divine life or
divine truth proceeding from the Lord should not only influence
his inward perceptions, and determine them to obedience} signified
by putting it on the ear, but should flow thence to the lower prin 
ciples of his mind and life,
to all his outward words and works,
signified by putting it upon such extreme parts as the thumb and
great toe.

toe of his right foot;

How clear then (surely may we be permitted to say) is the
evidence which such circumstances as these afford to the spiritual
nature of theWord of God! And how important is the instruc 
tion which results from seeing what their spiritual signification is!
From the example now considered we see clearly 110W we are to pro 
ceed, to obtain emancipation from any of our evils, and particularly
from the love of self. We are to cut off its thumbs and great toes;
we are to suppress it in every attempt which it makes to exert its
power by coming into act. Thus shall we at
length deprive it
of all influence over us; and as we do this, the Lord will cause it
to die from within us, and will qualify us to take possession of that
heavenly Canaan, in which. nothing shall resist His influence in our
'hearts, but He and His love shall be our all. in all.

SERMON II.

Judges i. 12-15.

" And Caleb said, He that smiietli Eirjath-sepher, and taketh it,

to
kim unll I give .Achsali ms] daughter to wife. And Othniel the son
took it.o and he gave hirn
of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother,
Aclisali his daughter to wife. And it came to pass, when she came
(to hhn),
that she mooed him to ask of her' father' a field. And
she lighted froni off her ass. And Caleb said unto her, What ioilt
thou? And she said unto him, Give me a blessing: for tluni hast
given; me a south land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb
gave her the uJJper springs and the nether springs,"

WE proceed in contemplating the singular history with which this
Book of Judges begins-that of the defeat of Adoni-bezek, who was
afterwards made a miserable cripple, by the amputation of his thumbs
and great toes. There is one part of this history, which, it has oc 
curred to me, I scarcely touched upon in a manner sufficiently dis 
tinct; and that is, the remarkable confession which Adoni-bezek
makes of the justice of the retribution which overtook him. "Three 
score and ten kings," 11e exclaims, "having their thumbs and their
great toes cut off, gathered their meat under my table: as I have
done, so God hath requited me." Kings, wherever they are mentioned
in the Word) denote, in the spiritual sense governing or principal
truths; either genuine or perverted. Government properly be-.
longs to Divine truth, according to the dictates of which, all
kings are supposed to rule their dominions. The greatest ene 
the law is that by
mies to monarchical po,ver will admit,
which the nation should be governed; and all
law, so far as
It is composed of
it
regulations deduced from the eternal principles of order, and
brought down into a form adapted to the condition of the people
who are to be governed by it. Now kings, or the chief governors of
nations, by whatever name they may be called, are properly the
administrators of this law: and as the law is, or ought to be, founded
in Divine Truth; and all its injunctions being so many particular
truths; it
is easy to see the propriety of mentioning kings in the
literal sense of the Holy ,V ord, as representatives of the divine truths

is founded in the Divine Truth.

is just,

that

10

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

ii.]

Chap. i. 12-15.

11

from which it

to denote what

is pre-eminently holy,

like the number seven,

of that Word, which are the eternal laws of divine order, designed
for the guidance of the human race, both here and hereafter.
'I'he
number seventy, which our translation, in the old English style
, of reckoning by scores, calls threescore and ten, is always used
is derived
in Scripture,
by multiplication,
and
particularly what has relation to the celestial and most holy prin 
ciple of love to the Lord. When therefore Adoni-bezek, who re 
presents the opposite of love to the Lord, which is the love of
self, declares that he had cut off the thumbs and great toes of
seventy kings, and reduced them to the slavery of depending for
their subsistence on the refuse of his table, the meaning is, that so
long as the love of self has the dominion in the heart,
the most ex 
alted truths of the Divine Word are deprived of their power, and are
made subservient, in the mind in which this bears s\vay, to its low
and. unworthy purposes. And most truly indeed is this found to
be the case where self-love has the pre-eminence, and is the govern 
ing motive of the conduct!
In this state, whatever truths a man
they are not suffered to take their proper dignity as
may know,
kings within him, but are deprived of all power, and if they are em 
ployed at all, it is only the better to carryon the object which self 
love has principally in view-that of obtaining po,ver and influence,
by enabling him to assume the appearance of a pious and upright
character before the world. How happy then is the deliverance
which is experienced, when Adoni-bezek himself is served as
he had treated his victims.s-cwhcn the love of self is itself de 
prived of its influence; and the deep sense of its contrariety to
every thing heavenly and divine, expressed in the acknowledgment
which his sufferings wrung from him,
is become the permanent
\ conviction of every principle and po\ver of the mind!

That the Holy Word contains in every part of it an internal or
spiritual sense distinct from that of the letter, is a truth which
cannot be difficult of reception by those, who believe the Sacred
Scriptures to be the Word of God indeed.
That such a sense
should be contained in the prophets, and in all such parts as have
an obscure or mystical air, can be' surprising to none: but that the
same should be the case with plain historical narratives,-narratives
which, though often recording very extraordinary things, yet are
obviously meant to be relations of things actually transacted j-this
certainly is what few would, on first hearing the assertion, suppose.
There is something inherent in the nature of every thing presented

as a narrative of facts, which chains the mind down to the facts
related, and tends to prevent it from looking for any meaning
beyond them. However, if the historical parts of Scripture are
really the \iVord of God as well as the didactic and the prophetical,
though actually transacted,
it
that is contained for the instruction of the pious
cannot be all
mind: 'I'he facts themselves must be of a representative or typi 
cal character; and thus must be inwardly replete with spiritual
instruction.

the facts related,

is certain that

We have now selected for our meditation a history which is not
less remarkable than the former, though the character of it is very
different. No doubt all the particulars of it are also equally replete
with heavenly wisdom,
though it will probably 110t be so easy to
make this apparent. The general subject
is evidently respecting
the union of goodness and truth, or of love and wisdom, which is
effected in the mind, when evil loves and false persuasions are van 
quished and removed; and respecting the increase of heavenly
blessings which follows that union. But to obtain any clear views
to
of the spiritual meaning of the relation, it is necessary first
have some acquaintance with the actors and the scene of it.

Caleb is here represented as proceeding to take possession of
the inheritance allotted him as', the reward of his fidelity, when,
forty -five years before, he had visited this part of Canaan as a spy,
to carry information respecting it to Moses and the Israelites in
the wilderness, This we learn from the 14th and Ifith chapters of
Joshua.
The history of the Spies and their report is recorded in
the 13th and 14tll chapters of the Book of Numbers j where we
read that twelve spies, one selected from each tribe, were sent to
explore the land then in possession of the Canaanites, of whom
Caleb was selected from the tribe of Judah, and Joshua from the
tribe of Ephraim.
they brought was, that the
land was rich, but that the cities were strongly fortified, and the
people of gigantic stature. When the children of Israel began to
take alarm at
this report, "Caleb," it is said, "stilled the people
before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it, for
cc But the men that went up
W8· are well able to overcome it."
with him said," (with the exception however, as the context shews,
of J oshua.) "vVe are not able to go up against the people, for
they are stronger than we." The consequence of this cowardice
was, that the people were on the point of electing another leader
to conduct them back into Egypt; wherefore the treacherous
spies died immediately by a plague, and the people in general

The report that

12

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

were sentenced to abide in the wilderness till the whole genera 
tion had died off. An exemption from these punishments was
however made in favour of Caleb and Joshua. The conduct of the
.former, who seems to have been by far the most active in check 
ing the madness of the people, is repeatedly mentioned with com 
mendation. Thus the Lord says to Moses, "Because all
those
men which have seen my glory, and my miracles, which I did in
Egypt and in the wilderness, have tempted me now these ten
times, and have not hearkened to Iny voice; surely they shall not
see the land which I sware unto their fathers; neither shall any
of them that provoked me see it: but my servant Caleb, because
he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him
will I bring into the land whereinto he went, and his seed shall
possess it."
to Joshua also, Moses was
So again with respect
Israelites, "Your carcases
commanded to say to the rebellious
shall fall
that were numbered of you,
in this wilderness; and all
according to your whole number, from twenty years old and up 
wards, which have murmured against me. Doubtless ye shall not
come into the land, concerning which I sware to make you dwell
therein, save Caleb the son of J ephunneh, and Joshua the son of
Nun."

Now what can be represented by these two faithful spies, one of
whom, as before observed, was of the tribe of Judah, and the other
of the tribe of Ephraim? What but a principle of goodness and
truth immediately and wholly from the Lord in the will and
understanding of the regenerating subject? whilst the others, and
all the rebellious Israelites, represent spiritual things received from
the Lord in the will and understanding, but defiled by a mixture
of the selfhood of man, and thus not of such a genuine nature as
to be able to stand in the fiery trials of temptation. Of Caleb it is
said, that he wholly followed the Lord; evidently denoting a prin...
ciple of pure love "received from him and undefiled by any selfish
mixture. And that Joshua was equally approved, is evident from
his being appointed to conduct the Israelites after the death of
Moses; which clearly shews that he represents a principle of pure
truth received from the Lord, and undefiled by man's self-derived
intelligence. Thus they both may be regarded as representing the
Lord Himself; Caleb representing him as to that Divine Goodness
or Love .with which he is present with man during his states of
temptation; and Joshua representing Him as to that Divine Truth
.or Word by which He conducts man at the same critical period.
,That Joshua represents the Lord as to divine truth, and thence His

ii.]

Cluip, i. 12-15.

13

di vine truth in man's understanding, is evident from his being of
the tribe of Ephraim, which always denotes the intellectual prin 

ciple of thc church; and that Caleb represel~ts ~Iim asr d~vi~e

good, and thence a principle of good from 111m In man s WIll, IS
evident from his beine of the tribe of Judah, which represents the
highest celestial principle, or that of love to the Lord, which has
its seat in the will.
I t is the characteristic of the celestial man to
brine truths as soon as he hears them, into the life, without first
sufferiue them to lie inactive in the meulory; and this we see rc-
together with the
presented in the promptitude of obedience,
ardent and fearless zeal, by which Caleb was distinguished: and
this is also why he receives the high commendation of having full.y
followed the Lord. The Lord is never fully followed but when Ins
whole will
is obeyed without hesitation; and nothing hut the
celestial principle of love to Him can inspire such obedience.

b

•

,

,

b

From these considerations, then, it would appear that Caleb re 
presents a principle of pure love or gooel, immediately from the
Lord in the inmost of the mind; but in order that it Iuay ac 
com;lish all the blessed purposes for which it was designed~ an~ i? 
the blessedness which It IS
order, likewise, that man may enjoy all
intended to impart, it is necessary that it should descencl
thence
into the external of the mind also, and come fully into action
throughout the 'whole man. This is what is represented bJT Caleb's
taking possession of his inheritance in the land of Canaan, one of
the cities of which was Kirjuth-sepher : which, on being captured by
him throuah the valour of his cousin Othniel, changed its name
into Debir. There are many instances of places changing t ieir
names on passing from under the power of the Canaanites to th~t
of the Israelites; and no doubt there is always a good reason for It
In cases "There the exact meaning of the
ill
names cannot with certainty be discovered, it will not be easy to
see what is spiritually signified by the exchange: but the meaning
both of Kirjath-sephcr, and of Debir, is so distinct, that it is not
difficult to see the reason for exchanging them. Kirjath means a
city, and Sepher literally means a book; and Debir means a word
or discourse. Thus the one means written and the other oral I all 
euaze : the one somethinc dead, and the other something alive.
b b '
All cities, in the Word, spiritually signify doctrines: by this CIty
then, so long as it is called Kirjath-sephcr, an inanimate book, is
meant the doctrine of truth, such as is suited to the celestial man,
so long as it remains a dead letter ill the Iuemory; but when it is
called Debir-living discourse,-it denotes the doctrine of truth

the internal sense.

hei

0

•

.

.

2

14

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

ii.]

Citap. i. 12-15.

Iti

exalted into the life, so as to live within the man, as the spontaneous
conclusions of his own understanding called into activity by a
renewed will. And this change of name took place in this city
when its wicked inhabitants were destroyed or driven out :
to
instruct us that our doctrines' only acquire life, as the evil pro~
pensities and false persuasions, which naturally possess our hearts
and understandings, are compelled to give way before the pre 
vailing influence of heavenly affections and the genuine truths of
the Lord's Word.

'I'here

they come into a strong desire for union,

It would appear, too, that this takes place when, after both per 
ceptions of truth and affections of goodness have been inseminated
into the mind,
'I'he
stimulating cause of the taking of ICirjath-sepher is expressed by
Caleb's saying, (( I-Ie that smiteth Kirjath-sepher and taketh it, to
him will I give Acbsah my daughter to wife :" upon which dcclnra 
tion, "Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother,
took
it." Here Achsah the daughter of Caleb, represents the pure
affection of goodness in a lower region of the mind, derived from
is immediately from the Lord in the higher; and
good that
Othniel the son of Kenaz, denotes truth from a celestial origin,
combating with power against evils and falsities from the de 
sire of conjunction with such affection.
is here also
something remarkable in the original, that greatly adds to the
beauty of the spiritual sense, which is not so perceptible in the
English translation. We might conclude, fro)! the words of the 171-/
translators, that Kenaz, whose son Othniel is said to be, was the
brother of Caleb: but there arc other passages which prove that
It is Othniel who is said to bo
he was the grandfather of Caleb.
the brother of Caleb, not because he was Caleb's own brother, but
because he stood in the same degree of
relationship to their
common ancestor, Kenaz ; brother being a term which is used in
Scripture not only to denote the sons of the same father, but all
collateral relatives whatsoever: and the reason why it is here used
is, for the sake of the spiritual sense, according to which, faith and
charity, truth and goodness, love and wisdom, are called brethren
to each other; wherefore, as Caleb represents a principle of
celestial good, and Othniel
truth from a celestial origin, he is
properly denominated Caleb's brother. But what our translators
have rendered. yo~tnger, is properly "the least from him," namely
from Kenaz, denoting not only the least in years but in importance
and influence; which circumstance is mentioned to express the
innocence of the principle represented by Othniel, denoting that

I

such a principle of truth in the mind has no tendency to self 
exaltation, but to humility and self-abasement, teaching him who
to regard himself as nothing, and the Lord as all.
possesses it,
When in all our views of truth this innocent looking to the Lord
is within, we shall be able, like Othniel, to overcome all opposition
from self and the world, and the infernal 110stS also, and to ex..
perience in the mind that union of goodness and truth in which
are stored all the felicities of heaven.

And when this happy union has thus taken place, it will manifest
itself in our outward man also, and will inevitably produce good...
ness of life as its result. This is implied by its being said, that" it
carne to pass, when she came (to him.) (or after the marriage.) that
she moved him to ask of her father a field:" A field, as being
without the city, denotes what is respectively external; and as it is
ground in which seeds are to be SOWll, it denotes that good of life
which is the proper soil for receiving the truths of faith, and be 
coming fruitful by their insemination. When the truth we have
received from the Lord is united in the mind with a pure affection
for him, it will not always remain within the city,-in the contem 
plation of doctrines, and in lifting the soul upwards in devout
aspirations; but it will go abroad into the world in works of useful 
ness and benevolence, and will thus find a field for the display of
such activities as a principle of truly celestial life and love in the
It was Achsah too, the
heart, will always prompt to and inspire.
wife and daughter, that prompted the desire for this field, to shew
that it is the love of goodness within that is the moving principle
to works of beneficence. And Othniel, at her desire, asked it of
her father-of the Lord Himself, as the sole source of the good that
call dwell within us.
It will amount to much the same if we still
consider Caleb as a principle of celestial good immediately received
in the heart from the Lord: in which case, the asking by desire of
Achsah, will denote a desire in the lower region of the mind, to be
more conformed to, and replenished with, the pure love which the
Lord has infused into the higher.

But now Achsah herself makes a request: and how did she
She lighted from off her ass: by which is
proceed in doing so?
signified the separation of the mind from what is merely natural,
that it may be in a state to perceive the good of the internaL
Thus, to aligbt from the ass seems to represent something similar
to the putting off of the shoe, which Moses was commanded to do
when in the immediate pres~nce of J ehovah : by which is signified

] 6

Sermons on Judges.

[8ei'I11.

ii.]

Chap. i. 12-15.

17

in the spirit and letter of the Holy Word, they have the upper and
lower springs that will cause their souls to produce new plants of
paradise both here and hereafter.

N O\V although the circumstances related in this history are not
miraculous, but, in part, of an apparently trivial nature,
they
certainly are such as would not have been put upon record in the
Word of God, but for the sake of the spiritual things which are
thereby represented. What historical
interest belongs to such
circumstances, as that Othniel asked for a field, and Achsah for
springs of water? Yet when the signification of the field, and of
the springs of water is known, how beautiful and important does
the whole become!
I-Iow full and complete are seen to be the
divine gifts which are offered to the sincere seeker after spiritual
life and blessing! Let us all, my brethren, be hereby animated to
perform the part of a faithful Othniel. Under the impulse of
a desire to obtain the pure affection of goodness to unite with our
knowledge of truth, let us earnestly engage in the work of purifica 
tion, and cast out every evil that lurks within our minds.
So shall
we find a field for the unrestrained exercise of a corresponding life;
and the upper and the nether springs,-the Holy Truth, internal
and external, of the Divine Word, rendered living by a communi...
cation of life from the Lord, will fertilize our souls to every good
product ana heavenly thought, and we shall have an eternal
inheritance in the heavenly Canaan.

. the necessity of receding from a merely sensual and corporeal
state, when elevating the mind to a perception of the Lord. An
ass strictly signifies the intellectual principle of the natural man,
which is necessary to be made use of when man is in active life,
though it then mnst be kept ill due subordination j but to alight
-from off an ass, is to be separated from this intellectual principle,
and to come into the state of humiliation necessary for the recep 
tion of divine communications.
Such communications are here
represented as being conseq uent UpOIl this state: for cr Caleb said
thou? And she said unto him, Give me
unto her, What wilt
thou hast given me a south land, give 111e also
a blessing; for
springs of water."
The south is always mentioned in the Word to
denote a state of intelligence, wherefore to have received a south
land as a gift from Caleb, denotes to be gifted with a state of in 
telligence from the Lord, as a consequence of possessing- a principle
of good immediately from him in the internal man : for nothing
can impart a real principle of intelligence to the understanding, but
a reception of goodness from a divine origin in the heart. Every
one may have observed, that when a strong desire is felt to under 
stand any subject from the real love of it: however intricate it may
appear where there is no such desire, it
then becomes easy: and
there is no real love or desire for spiritual intelligence, but that
which is founded in the love of practising those truths which
spiritual intelligence discovers.
The food however of all spiritual
intelligence is truth from the Holy Word, and this is always re 
presented in Scripture by wells or springs of water. And because
in the state here represented, there is the requisite love or desire
for the perception and enjoyment of these divine truths, therefore
it is said that Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether or
lower springs; the upper springs. are the- streams of truth divine
that flow fromthe spiritual sense of the Holy Word for the edifi 
cation of the internal or spiritual man; and the lower springs are
the stores of truth contained in the natural sense of the Holy
"Vord for the edification of the external or natural man. Both are
opened to those in whose minds goodness and truth are in a state of
conjunction; or in whom the marriage of Othniel and Achsah has
taken place. They .are in continual communion with the Divine
Caleb,-with the Lord himself,-and that good which is im 
mediatelyfrom Him, in the inmost of their minds, and thus their
. souls are like a watered garden, whose waters fail not.
'I'heir
minds are never destitute of themes a! edifying contemplation, but

SERl\iON III.

Judges ii. I, 2, 3.
U And an angel of the Lord carne ulJ from Gilgal to Bochim, and said,
I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought yOlt unto the
land tohich. I suiare unto your father's; and I said, I will never
break my covenant with you; and ye shall make no league 1.vith
the" inhabitants- of this land: ye shall
throw doum their altars.
But ye have not obeyed lny voice. Why have ye done this? Where-
fore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but
they shall be as thorns in your- sides: and their gods shall be a
snare unto you."

WE have been engaged, in two previous discourses,
ill consider 
ing the spiritual instruction to be derived from some of the extra 
ordinary circumstances related in the first chapter of this Dook of
Judges: on which we entered partly 'with a design of shewing the
true nature of the historical parts of the Old 'I'estameut.
'I'o con 
tinue the same design, it is now proposed,
to proceed with the
consideration of some of the other remarkable histories related in
this book.
All

that follows is) in the literal sense, an account of the op 
pressions under which the children of Israel fell from idolatrous
nations-sometimes from those which dwelt beyond the limits
of
the land of Canaan, and sometimes from those which re 
tained a habitation within its borders; and it includes also the de 
tail of many surprising deliverances which they obtained, by the
raising up of judges, who, supported by a divine influence, defeated
their enemies and regained the liberty of their country. Our pre 
sent text, with the remainder of the chapter from which it is taken,
gives an account of the cause which so far deprived them of the
divine protection as so frequently to render them unable to cope
with their enemies: The cause was this;
that instead of refusing
all commerce with the idolatrous inhabitants of the land, and car 
rying on the war against them till they were entirely expelled, they
them) and to exercise before them
suffered them to dwell amongst
their idolatrous worship:
the consequence of which was, as is stated
In the thirteenth verse, that they themselves forsook the Lord) and

[Serm, iii.]

Sermons on Judges.

19

worshiped Baal and Ashtaroth; and this was necessarily followed
by misfortune and servitude.

Whoever has read with any attention the books of Moses, and
that of J oshua, must have been struck with the frequency and
urgency of the divine command given to the Israelites, to have no
dealings "with the Canaanites, but to drive them entirely out of the
land. At the time of the giving of the ten commandments, at the
conclusion of the precepts delivered in the three following chapters
of Exodus, the Lord makes a promise to the children of Israel re 
specting his giving them the lanel of Canaan; which He finishes
with these words: "I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into
your hand; and thou shalt drive them out before thee. Thou shalt
make no covenant with then), nor with their gods. They shall not
dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against 1\1:e: for if thou
serve their gods, it will surely be a snare unto thee." The like in 
junction is repeated at the time of the renewing the tables of the
law: again Jehovah says to Israel, "Take heed to thyself, lest thou
make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither thou
goest; lest it be for a snare in the midst. of thee: but yo shall de 
stroy their altars, break their images" and cut down their groves.')
Similar commands are given over and over again through the re 
maining books of Moses; and they formed also one of the dying
injunctions of Joshua. He had driven out or exterminated a great
number of the idolatrous people: but he warns his countrymen
against being satisfied with what they had already done, and mak 
ing peace with the remainder, in these words : "rrake good heed to
yourselves that ye love the Lord your God. Else if ye do in any..
wise go back, and cleave unto the remnant of these nations, even
these which remain arnong you, and shall make marriages with
them, and go in unto them, and they to you; know for a certainty
that the Lord your God will no more drive out any of these nations
from before you; but they shall be snares and traps unto you) and
scourges in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until ye perish
from off this good land which the Lord your God hath given you."
Yet notwithstanding these multiplied warnings, we find that the
Israelites were no sooner seated comfortably in the land, than they
disobeyed them all. The first chapter of Judges contains the his 
the final settlement of the several tribes in their allot 
tory of
ments; and of everyone of them it
is recorded that they shared
their possessions with their former inhabitants. Thus of Judah
(undel' which name Simeon appears to be included, as J udall and
Simeon made common cause in taking possession of their portions;

Sermons on Judges.

[SerIne

it is said,
that ".the Lord was with Judah; and he drave out the
inhabitants of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabit 
ants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron." But that
this" could not" is only said in reference to the faiut-hcartcducse
with which they made the attempt, is evident from the answer of
Joshua to a similar complaint of Ephraim and Muunssch, who had
said to him, "The hill is not enough for us: and all the Canaanites
that dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron ." to whom
Joshua said in his reply, " The mountain shall be thine, for it is a
wood, and thou shalt cut it down : and the outgoings of it shall be
thine: for thou ~shalt drive out the Canaanites, though they have
chariots of iron, and though they be strong." This is a plain de 
claration that the chariots of iron would not be an insuperable bar
to the victories of the Israelites, if they faithfully adhered to the
the
commandments so often given them, utterly to drive out
Canaanites, and if they confided in the divine promise, so often
repeated, that nothing, whilst they continued obedient, would be
able to stand before them. We find however that Judah, terrified
by the chariots of iron, or chariots armed with long knives or
scythes, similar to those in use among the original inhabitants of
Britain, were content
to leave the Canaanites in possession of the
valleys or low country, and to be satisfied with the occupation of the
So it is said of the tribe of Benjamin)
mountain or hilly country.
that they did not drive out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem,
but allowed them to dwell with them.
It is in like manner re 
corded of the tribe of Manasseh, that they" did not drive out the
inhabitants of Beth-shean and her towns, nor the iuhabitants of
Dor and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Lbleam and her towns,
nor the i~habitallts of Megiddo and her towns: but," it is said,
I t is added, (( that
"the Canaanites would dwell in that land."
when Israel became strong, they put the Canaanites to tribute, but
did not utterly drive them out :" which is equivalent to saying,
that, contrary to so many divine injunctions) they made 'with them
a covenant or treaty. Much the same is related of the tribes of
Ephraim, Zebulon, Asher, Naphtali, and Dan; which, with those
form the
before named, and Issachar, of whom nothing is said,
whole body of the Israelites whose possessions were within the
river Jordan, or the country properly called the land of Canaan.
All, it appears, disobeyed the divine commandments which con 
tained the very conditions upon which they were to be put in pos 
session of the land: no wonder then if severe sufferings quickly

iii.]

Chap. ii, 1, 2, 3.

21

followed, and if the enemies whom they endured among them oc- 
casionally became their masters.

N O\V it is evident that this history, even in its literal sense, con 
veys a lesson of great and impressive import.
It is stated in the
fourteenth and fifteenth verses of the chapter of our text, that in
consequence of Israel's falling a\vay to follow the gods of the people
round about them, "the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel,
and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them,
and he delivered them into the hands of their enemies round about,
so that they could no longer stand before their ene;nies. Whither 
the hand of the Lord was against them for
soever they went out,
evil, as the Lord had said, and as the Lord had sworn unto them ;
and they were greatly distressed." 'I'his effect of their disobedience
so speedily followed, because with them} w110 were altogether ex 
ternal rnen, external rewards and punishments were the invariable
consequences of their obedience or disobedience to the divine laws,
Under the Christian dispensation, this immediate application, in a
sensible manner, of punishment to crime and of blessing to good
conduct, does not so regularly take place among either nations or
individuals. Both are permitted sometimes to go on for a con 
siderable period in a course of wickedness, without being directly
though they are sure to encounter
pursued by divine judgments,
last j-the wicked mall after the death of the body) and
them at
the corrupted nation after a longer or shorter interval of prosperity.
But among the Israelites, with W110m every thing was representa 
tive, and with whom also natural afflictions were the proper rewards
of natural crimes, the outward sin and its visible punishment ap 
pear seldom to have been long disjoined.
Such occurrences then
are well calculated to impress us most strongly with a sense of the
necessity of yielding a sincere obedience to the divine command 
that an
ments; since we may be certain from these examples,
habitual disregard of them throws us out of the sphere of the divine
protection, exposes us to the most injurious visitations, and must,
if persevered in, be attended with our final ruin.

The lesson however, will be more clearly conveyed, if 'we direct
our view to the spiritual sense of these occurrences, instead of abid 
ing in the literal sense alone.

The idolatrous nations 'which the Israelites were' commanded to
the deep-seated evil lusts and false per 
exterminate, represent all
suasions which lurk in the human heart: of course the command
to drive them out, denotes the necessity of expelling them entirely
they should not influence our affections
from our bOS01118, so that

22

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

or conduct any more; as on the other hand, to make a leaeue with
them is to temporize with our duty, and to tolerate the existence
of the principle, though we may think we will be very cautious how
we suffer it to come into practice. But the example of the Israelites
~h~ws, what the. experience of all mankind confirms, how dangerous
It IS to parley WIth an enemy of this nature: if we allow any thing
that we know to be evil ever to tarry in our thoughts, the infallible
consequence will be that it will at last ensnare us, as the Canaanites
did the Jews, when they induced them to worship their gods: To
worship the go~s of the Canaanites; is to give that place in OUl~
affections ~to the corrupt inclinations of the natural man, which is
due to the Lord alone, the consequence of which must be eternal
It appears that when the Israelites made treaties with the
ruin.
they had no thoughts of adopting their habits:
Canaanites,
the
treaties they made were such as are usually granted by a conqueror
to a vanquished enemy,
the terms being that they should be tri 
butary to them; by which of course is signified, that the evils re 
presented by the Canaanites,
though not exterminated, were not
to be allowed to exercise any influence, much less to assume the
superiority, but were to be kept in a state of subordination; yet we
find, owing to the natural bias which the corrupt heart of man has
. towards selfish and worldly objects, the presence of the Canaanites
'among the children of Israel was sufficient to lead them into their
is replete with the most 801e11111 warnings,
practices: This fact
typifying, as it so evidently does, the readiness with which man
lapses into evil deeds and habits, if he suffers the thought or idea
of such things to dwell in his mind, and does not instantly and de 
cidedly rejept it. Let us then learn wisdom from this example.
Let us learn to keep our minds continually aspiring after further
~nd further purification; and when any corrupt instigation presents
Itself to our senses and thoughts, instead of yielding to the allure 
ment and appropriating the evil, let it only be the signal for its
. immediate renunciation. Thus will every thing of the kind be
made conducive to our improvement instead of operating to our
i~jnry. For no evil
inclination could ever spring up within us,
~Ither through outward allurements or the instigation of infernals,
If there were not a basis of a corrupt nature inherent in our minds,
to which evil inclinations and practices are agreeable. Every per 
ception then of any evil inclination, is in fact an outward discovery
of some deep-seated corruption of our selfish nature ; and when the
suggestion is resisted and entirely overthrown, through our forbear-
-ing to yield to it and looking to the Lord, that portion of our self...

iii.]

Chap. ii, 1, 2, 3.

23

hood in which it is grounded is removed with it, and thus room is
made, as it were, for a more full reception of heavenly graces and
their accompanying delights. But
this happy result only takes
place,
(!JC it well ?bserved,) when the evil is rejected without being
entertained and Indulged: where this is done, that portion of our
selfhood in which the evil is grounded, and vvhich before existed in
~s in a latent state, and, being the result only of hereditary deriva 
tion and not of actual life, would not have been imputed to us as
sin, i~ appropriated, confirmed, and made the subject of imputation :
an~ though evils even of this nature may afterwards be removeq~by
. Serl?US repentance, their removal will then be attended with many
a .bitter pang, and the state which nlay subsequently be attained
'VIII after all he inferior to what it might have been, had the evil
suggestions been resisted on their first appearance, and had never
by their adoption been made our own. How careful
then ought
to be against making any league with the spiritual
we eve~'
Canaanites.
. Such is the general purport of the Israelitish history; but it
Includes likewise a more specific application, of which we will en 
deavour to offer a slight sketch, with a view of shewing how end 
less are the stores of divine instruction contained in the Word of
the same time what a boundless career of improve 
God, and at
is open to the sincere Christian, who is willing to follow
ment
where Divine Mercy is ever desirous to lead him.

That

In Canaan,

When understood in respect

to the regeneration of man
as an il~dividual,. the del~verance of the Israelites from Egypt
represents his advance to
and their establishment
the second great stage in the regenerate life, or
the attain 
ITICnt of that state in which if he dies, he becomes an .inhabitant
of the second or middle heaven.
it is the will of the
~orcl that man should attain the highest possible state, which
IS consequent upon his complete deliverance from the influence of
his selfish nature, and the extirpation of all the evils with which it
is contaminated, seems to be indicated by. the command so often
given. to destroy or drive out entirely the wicked inhabitants of
Canaan; the accomplishment of which command would have re 
presented a state, in which man would be no more liable to de~line
into evils. But such is the depth of man's ingenerate. corruptions)
a.nd his ?on~equent infirmities, that although this would be pos 
SIble to him If he would steadily look to and confide in the Lord
!et he in practice does not attain it without making a long abode
III the second great stage of the spiritual life) in which further and

24

Sermons on Judges.

[Scrm-

iii.]

Chap. ii. r, 2, 3.

25

further developments of the evils of his nature take place.
'I'his
appears to be represented by the fact, that the Israelites, contrary
to the divine injunction, spared their deadly foes.
'I'hcir acting
thus proved the cause of their suffering nluny calnmitics, w hich
were representative of the temptations and vastations necessary tu
be undergone, in consequence of the depths of evil resident in the
corrupt heart of man, before he can. attain the perfection of the
spiritual state, and be introduced into the celestinl. W 0 road. ill
that "the people
the 7th and following verses of this chapter,
served the Lord all.the days of Joshua, and all
the days of the
elders that outlived J oshua, who had seen all the great works of
the Lord that he did for Israel."
This appears to describe the
state of ~obedience from a spiritual ground, which is maintained on
the completion of man's regeneration to the second or spiritual
degree, being the result of temptations and victories in them
wrought for man by the Lord. His experience and acknowledg 
ment of this are meant by its being said of that generation, that
they " had seen the great works of the Lord that he did for Israel;'
But it is immediately added, " And Joshua the son of Nun, the
servant of the Lord, died ;"-" and also all that gcneration were
gatllered to their fathers:" then it proceeds, "and there arose
another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet
the works which he had done for Israel.') These words most strik 
ingly describe the opening of a new region of the mind, the evils
belonging to which had not before been brought to light, and of
consequence had not been subdued and removed by the tempta 
the regeneration of Ulan as to the
tions which had sufficed for
spiritual degree.
It would appear then, that all which follows in
the history of the Israelites, to their being carried away to l3aby 
Ion and brought back again, represents the states which the re 
generating mind undergoes, before it can be raised from the spiri 
tual degree of life to the celestial: and when it is considered what
depths of. arcana must be included in this process, and what in 
numerable states must be passed through before all
the glories
belonging to the celestial state can be developed) and also that
these can.. only be developed in proportion as greater and greater
discoveries are made of
the hidden corruptions of our nature ;
when. we reflect on this, we need not wonder
the detail
of them occupies. so large a portion of the Holy "rord.
That
generation arose which
that
this remarkable notice,
knew not the Lord, denotes .the opening of a new state after the
is strongly corroborated by this cou-
attainment of the spiritual,

another

that

sideration, that it answers so exactly to what is related at the be ...
ginlling of the sufferings of the Israelites in Egypt; on which
(Ex. i. 8) that "there arose a new king over
occasion it is said,
Egypt which knew not J oseph." This expresses the opening of a
new state in the natural mind, not perceived to exist before, in
\V liich the contrariety of the natural man to the spiritual becomes
plainly manifest : so, by parity of reason, the arising, after the time
of J oshun, of a new generation w hich knew not the Lord, must de 
note the opening of a deeper state in man's selfhooc1, opposed to
the glories of the celestial state, and to the heavenly attainments
Th~ same phrase is not
necessary to be made in advancing to it.
used in the "rord on any other than these two occasions j
the rea 
son is) because there are 110 other stages in the regenerate life so
strongly marked as these.
'I'hese denote the openings of those
degrees altogether distinct from each other which are called in the
New Church Writings discrete degrees; whereas all
the other
changes that arc noted in the Word express different states or
stages ill the same general degree.

to light

I mention these things for the satisfaction of those who wish to
study, in a deeper ground than common, the Holy W orc1, and the
sublime discoveries of heavenly arcana brought
in the
doctrines of the N ew J erusalem Church: but I am aware that they
are things difficult to be made intelligible to the mind which is not
in possession of a good deal of previous knowledge on such sub ...
jects. Abstruse however as these things may appear,
they may
give rise to valuable practical reflections.
It surely must tend to
exalt our admiration and reverence of the Holy Word when we see
tho endless variety of profound mysteries which it includes within
its bosom : it must also bring 1101ne to us the exclamation of the
Psalmist, ana convince us that we are indeed cc fearfully and won 
derfully made," when we learn tha.t such a boundless store of dis 
tinct things and principles is comprised in our spiritual organiza 
tion; and it
lTIUSt exalt our adoration of our blessed God and
Father, when lye see in ourselves so strong an image even of His
infinity, and become more sensible of what an exhaustless exercise
of divine mercies and deliverances is necessary, and is granted by
Him, for our complete salvation.

We will conclude with a remark which may be necessary to

secure part of what has been said from being misapplied.

We have seen that when the historical facts we have been con...
sidering are understood in their general spiritual reference,
they
shew how necessary it is to guard against yielding on any occasion

3

26

Sermons on Judqes.

[Scrm,

iii.]

Chap. ii. 1, 2, 3.

27

to the still more glorious one represented by the return to Canaan
after the captivity in Babylon. But all depends upon man's re 
sisting the incitements to actual evil whenever they arise.
'I'here
is no being in any real good except by the rejection of every evil.
Let us then look to the Lord that we may first be enabled to dis.
cover the evils that are within us, and that we may ever abhor and
shun them till we are finally established in the kingdom of heaven..

in any state fall

to evil influences: and yet it might seem, from what has been said
on the specific application of the circumstances, as if such in 
fluences must to a certain extent prevail. nut it is to be observed
that when we apply the Holy Word to the specific states of in 
the persons .aud things mentioned, refer
dividual regeneration, all
to certain principles in the mind of the individual subject, and do
'I'h us in the
not any of them extend to the whole man himself.
g~I.lM~l sense the Israelites in their states of rebellion and ob 
stinacy represent the members of the church in its state of per 
version, who yield to the allurements of evil lusts, and consequently
perish, or at least suffer a great injury in their states: but in the
particular sense the Israelites do not represent the member of thc
church himself, but certain states in his mind; and their yielding
to the seductions of tlie Canaanites, does not imply that the real
into the evils repre 
member of the church will
sented by the Canaanites, but only that he will become sensible
of the existence within him of propensities inclining him to do
so, and whi ell, in states of temptation, seem to SUITOlUld him so
closely, that it appears to him as if he must yield to them, and
so be eternally lost. That this is the manner in which the trans 
gressions of the Israelites are to be understood in their reference
to the individual subject of regeneration, is evident from the case
of David, who is known to be in a particular manner a represen ta 
tive of the Lord. The Lord, we know, was without sill) neither
was guile found in his mouth: yet David was guilty of the greatest
of all possible sins-adultery and murder,-and.
this effected by
flow then could he, in these respects, reprc 
the deepest guile.
sent the Lord? The spiritual meaning is, not that the Lord fell
into these evils, but that in his states of humiliation He discovered
in the human nature taken from the mother, the propensities to
these and all other corruptions, which afforded a ground for
the
infernal powers to assault Him, and to occasion deep temptations:
and we know that the result in I-lim of all such temptations was,
not any appropriation of the evils suggested; but complete victory
over them,
So are all the histories of the lapses of the Israelites
to be understood in their reference to the regeneration of an in 
dividual: they do not mean that such a man will run into actual
evils, but that he will obtain deeper and deeper discoveries of the
evils that are in his nature, and will suffer temptations in conse 
quence, but that, supported by the Lord, he will be finally victori 
ous, and be "exalted, at length, either to the state represented by
the taking possession" of Canaan after corning up out of Egypt, 01'

SERJYION IV.

Judges iii. 5-11.
And the children of Israel dwelt alnOng the Canaanites, and Hittites,
and Amoriies, and Perrizeiies, and Hivites, and Jebusites . and
they took their daughters to be their uiioes, and gave their daugh 
ters to their sons, and served their gods. And the children of
Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord) and forqa: the Lord their
Therefore the ange1" of
God, and served Baalim and the groves.
the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of
Chushan-rishatha'im, king of Mesopoiamia : and the children of
Israel served Chushan-rishathaim eight years.
And uihen. the
children of Israel cried unto the Lord, the L01'd raised ?ilJ a de 
liverer to the children of Israel, who delivered them, even Othniel
the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother. And the Spirit of the
Lord came upon him, and he judged Israel, and ioeni out to uiar :
and the Lord delivered Chushan-rishatiuiim, king of Mesopotamia,
into his hand; and his hand prevailed agaiTl,.st Chusluin -risha 
thaim, And the land had r~st forty years.

IT has been endeavoured in some former discourses from this
book of Judges, to give a general idea of the nature of the history
which it contains. We have seen, that when we regard the whole
of the Divine Word as describing the progress of individual re 
generation, as no doubt it does, from the first
formation of the
human being to his highest state of advancement j
the histories of
this book must have reference to those states which supervene,
after man has attained the elevated situation of a truly spiritual
man, represented by his establishment in the land of Canaan, and
'when new openings of the recesses of his nature are made to him,
which are necessary to the further extension of his acquirements,
and without which he could never attain the state in which are the
angels of the highest heavens, and become a' truly celestial being.
With respect however to the more general manner in which these
histories may be regarded, we have seen that they describe states
of the church at large, when it suffers itself to fall a,vay from the
principle of its foundation, and inclines to the evils and false per 
suasions which are inherent in the mind of man, and which arc

[Serm. iv.J

Sermons on Judges.

29

called into activity by the influence of evil spirits, who, when con 
sidered in one aggregate, are called the devil, of whom an apostle
declares, that he is ever going about as a roaring lion, seeking
whom he may devour.

\i,re read in this book of six great oppressions which the Israelites
suffered from the idolatrous nations around them, or from those
whom they permitted to dwell among them, each of which lasted
for a .. considerable number of years. The first is that related in
our text) when the king of Mesopotamia held them in bondage for
eight years, till they were delivered by the raising up of Othniel
for the purpose. After his death, when the Israelites lapsed again
into idolatrous practices,
they were subclued by the Moabites,
under whose tyranny they groaned for eighteen years, and were
delivered by Ehud, After some trouble from the Philistines, who
were overthrown by Shamgar,
they again did evil in the sight of
the Lord, (as is often remarked;) when they were oppressed by
Jabin, a Canaanitish prince, and by Sisera, the captain of his forces)
for the long space of twenty years;
till Deborah and Barak were
raised up for their deliverance. They next fell under the power of
the Midianites, and were by them reduced to the greatest extremity
of distress, for the period of seven years j when they were rescued
by the extraordinary exploits of Gideon and his curiously selected
band of three. hundred men. After his days, except that they suf 
fered from the domestic tyranny of his son .Ahimelech, they seem
to have enjoyed a considerable ..interval of tranquility under two
'when they were enslaved by the
pacific judges,
lIe
Ammonites for eighteen years, and were rescued by J epthah,
was succeeded by three judges, of w110m little is recorded, when
the Philistines obtained the dominion over them; and whose power,
notwithstanding the great exploits of Samson, was not completely
broken till the reign of David.
'I'hus this book contains the history
of the Israelitish nation under the authority of twelve Judges, and
of their sufferings under six complete states of subjugation to dif 
ferent nations: in which, however, I have not reckoned their cap 
tivity to the Philistines in the clays of Shamgar, because this seems
to have been but of very partial extent. Of all these, that related
in our text (except
that connected with Shamgar) is passed over
the most briefly. All the others are accompanied with details of
considerable length, and some very singular circumstances attended
all the means by which deliverance was obtained; whereas ·in that
at present before us, nothing peculiarly remarkable seems to have
distinguished the war which was undertaken by Othniel, further

'I'ola and Jail";

3*

30

Sermons on Judges.

[Sernle

iv.]

Chap. iii. 5-11.

31

than that Chusban-rishathaim appears to have been easily van 
quished. The causes, however, which led to this captivity, are de 
tailed more at length than in most other instances, no doubt to
serve as a general introduction to the whole, and to let us know
what is included in the brief expression generally used on other
in the sight of the
occasions-a the children of Israel diel evil

Lord." "re will note the chief circumstances stated j which will

lead us briefly to explain what
is meant by the several nations
mentioned j what by the kind of alliances which the Israelites con 
tracted with them j what by the anger of the Lord being kindled
against Israel; what by their slavery under Chuehau-rishathaim ;
what by their crying to the Lord j and what by their deliverance
through the instrumentality of Othniel.

With respect

they denote all

to the first of these subjects} it is said, that the
in the midst of the Canaanites, Hittites,
children of Israel dwelt
and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Hivitcs, and J ebusitcs; which
are the same that are mentioned elsewhere as being the nations
whom the Israelites were to drive out of the land, and by no menus
to tolerate among them. The wicked natives of the land of Canaan
represent the deep-seated evil
lusts and false persuasions inherent
in the human heart j and no doubt, when they arc cnumcrntcd ill
the corruptions, ill
a series, as in the present case,
a general complex, to which the heart of man is prone. Each one
of them, we may be assured, expresses S01110 general class of de 
praved affections of the will, or false suggestions of the understand 
though 110W to distinguish in what they differ from each other
ing j
would perhaps require nicer degrees of spiritual discrimination than
we at present possess.
in
general; but sometimes, when mentioned in connexion with others,
they denote that kind of evil which is the result of a marr's having 
previously confirmed himself in false principles of belief. Let us
instance, a Ulan to be persuaded, as multitudes arc,
suppose, for
that faith alone is all that is requisite for salvation, and that charity
and good works, though useful in society, are of no use whatever
in ·pl'lomoting man's justification in the sight of God j-if, under
the persuasion that charity or good will not save him, he should
begin to think. that neither will evil condemn him, and should thus
become regardless of the state of his affections, and live in the
practice of whatever his corrupt natural
inclinations suggest: 
such a man is sunk in evil grounded in falsity ;-he indulges in evil
in consequence of having imbibed" as a principle of doctrine,
the
notion that faith alone is sufficient, and that where this is possessed,

The Canaanites usually denote evil

the worship of idols.

sins do not appear in the sight of God.
So again the I-littites re 
present such false persuasions in the understanding as give birth
to evil
indulgences j and these are such notions as just explained
respecting the all-sufficiency of faith alone: and many other false
notions, whose tendency is similar, exist. The doctrine, for in 
stance} of Ulan's being destitute of free will in spiritual things is a
false persuasion that has a direct tendency to beget evil in affection
and practice: for he that believes it, will readily say, "If I cannot
do good or abstain from evil without an irresistible outpouring of
elivine grace, and this grace is not given me, I cannot be to blame,
let me do what I ll1ay :"-and so such a person will indulge in all
evil propensities, while in his heart he imputes the blame of them
to God. Such uotions are spiritual Hittites, to contract an alliance
with which is to rebel against the Lord} and to forsake his pure
worship for
'I'he Amorites again represent
cvil in gcneral} specifically such as captivates the external man j as
appears from their having their chief residence on the outside of
.Torrlan, where, with their king Sihon,
they were vanquished by
'I'lie Perizzitcs, which are next mentioned, denote false
1\108CS.
persuasions originating in evil of heart, as all false notions originally
do, although when once invented, they may be infused into other
persons, who l11ay hold them in simplicity, and thns not be sharers
in the criminality which is incurred by the inventors of them.
"rhus, whenever a man is attached to the practice of evil of any
kind whatever,
first he may be sensible that it is very
wrong, yet if he docs not on this account desist from it, he is sure
by practice so to confirm it as to lose all wish to desist from it j
and as in such case the thought that it is wrong becomes disagree 
able and painful, he first frames for himself some excuse, and at
last actually persuades himself that he has a right to do as he does:
and this persuasion is truly the falsity grounded in evil-it is false
i n itself} and evil
is its author. And such notions as these are
constantly meant by the Perizzites wherever they are spoken of in
the I-Ioly Word.
"1111e other two classes mentioned-the Hivites
and the Jebusites,-also denote evil inclinations and false imagina 
tions, but such as are of a milder kind than the others, as partak 
ing more of ignorance than of intention: but such as are neverthe 
less highly culpable in a man who, having the Holy \¥ord to con 
sult, and the means of obtaining correct ideas as to its doctrines,
neglects these ad vantages, and following his own inclinations and
blind conceptions without caring to have them set right) falls into

though at

32

Sermons on Judges.

[SerIn.

the idolatry of regarding external things in preference to internal,
thinking much of this life and little of any other.

Such then, are in general the things represented by the six
nations here mentioned : of course it is easy to sec how great is the
wickedness described by the mode in which the Israeli tcs con 
tracted alliances with them, which is what we are ill the second
place to notice.
((they took their daugl1tcrs to be
their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons) and served
their Gods."

It is said that

Daughters, whenever they are spoken of in the "Tord, denote
affections either of good or of evil, and SOIlS denote perceptions of
truth.
As the Israelites signify the members of the church, Of,
specifically that which constitutes the church in man, for them to
take the daughters of these wicked nations for wiYes, denotes
the conjunction of the holy things of the Church with evil affec 
tions of all kinds; so again to give their daughters to the SOllS
of the wicked nations, is to unite affections of a heavenly origin
with false persuasions.
For exam pIe; whoover, on the one part,
the
has .acquircd an acquaintance with the genuine truths of
Church, knowing that there is a God, and who I-Ie is,-that there
is a heaven and hell, and the numerous doctrines. that arise out of
these general principles; and who does, notwithstanding, en 
courage affections of an evil nature ill Iris heart, especially if he
endeavour, to make these heavenly things conducive to worldly and
selfish ends, he does what is represented by the Israelites marrying
the daughters of the Canaanites-he profanes heavenly things, by
mixing them with selfish affections. On the other hand, whoever,
in consequence of being acquainted with the truths of the Church,
has felt affections for them, and for the Divine realities to wliich
they relate, springing up in his mind; if, for instance, on hearing
the' doctrine of the Lord unfolded, he has been struck with its
reasonableness and beauty, and has felt a delight in it ;-01' if, on
hearing of the nature of the heavenly world, he has been sensible of a
desire arising in his heart to be enabled to enjoy the bliss described;
-these delights and desires are daughters of Israel :-should he
then afterwards embrace any of the specious but false sentiments,
either of a nature directly doctrinal or not, .which have their origin
in the evils of the natural man; should he combine his heavenward
aspirations with such notions as these, applying, for instance, his
delight on hearing of the Lord and his salvation, to the notion that
He is but one of three Divine persons: or seeking to gratify his

iv.J

Chap. iii. 5-11.

33

longing for heaven by adopting the persuasion that heaven will be
opened to him by mere faith, without regard to amendment of life;
-or should he in any other way unite the affections that have been
produced in his mind by a knowledge of spiritual things, with any
persuasions of a false and especially of a worldly and selfish nature;
-he then does what is meant by the Israelites giving their daugh 
ters in marriage to the sons of the Canaanites.
Such marriages,
of both kinds, denote the combination of doctrines that are true
with affections that are evil, by which the truth becomes falsified;
and the COlllbination of affections originally good with doctrines
that are false, by which the good becomes adulterated. When this
is done, the transition is not great to the state represented by the
serving, by the Israelites, of the Gods of the Canaanites; by which
is meant, to place the worldly and selfish things represented by the
idolatrous nations so high in our affections, as to allow them the
station due to the Lord alone.
'I'he proper residence of the Lord
with man is in the inmost of his mind: but if man's affections are
set upon unworthy and evil objects, man's true spiritual internal,
where the Lord resides,
is not open; all that is open in such a
man's mind is a region beneath; and whatever is the object of his
supreme regard occupies the inmost or highest station therein;
and this is to him, whether he suspects it or not, his God. Who 
ever, then, devotes his supreme affections to evil pursuits, worships
in reality the gods of
the Canaanites and the other idolatrous
nations.

N ow when a luau has gone into this' extent of transgression, he
is called in the Holy ",Vord, the
inevitably will experience what
anger of the Lord.
I t is said, "Therefore the anger of the Lord
was hot against Israel j" by which is Incant, not that the Lord
really burns with anger, however deserving of it man may be; but
influences to turn him away
that, when a man has suffered evil
from the Lord, so that in his heart, instead of the Lord, he worships
some depraved affection, he comes into a state of such contrariety
to the Lord,
that everything proceeding from the Lord is per 
ceived by him as something just the reverse of what it really is.
The change is not in the Lord, but in the man.
In the Lord is
nothing but love and wisdom, goodness and truth; and nothing
but these ever can flow from Him ; but when man has averted him..
self from these Divine graces, and has filled his mind with their
opposites, then the Lord's love will appear to him like anger, and
the influx of it, instead of recreating his soul with life and enjoy..
ment, as it does when received by the angels, fills him with horror

34

Sermons on Judge's.

[Scrnl..

iv.]

Chap. iii. 5-11.

35

The case to the sinner and his feelings,

and dismay, occasioning to him such torment as he conceives can 
1'11e case to the sinner
not be the result of any thing but anger.
is thus exactly the same as if the Lord were really full of auger
against him, and this should ever be recollected; otherwise the
doctrine that the Lord is nothing but love, would be liable to per 
version and abuse.
is
exactly the same as it would be if the Lord were really angry
and punished him from a motive of vengeance; whereas the ap 
pearance of anger and vengeance arises from the state of the
sinner alone, He has induced such a state on the spiritual organ 
ization of his mind,
that pure Divine love and goodness, being
things that. in reality he hates, occasion to him pain by their
presence: hence all
in hell, when they have any thought of the
Lord at all, think of Him with hatred, and believe their wretched
state to proceed from anger in Him, instead of being, as it is, the
inseparable consequence of their own state of evil; of their opposi 
tion and aversion to every thing tllat is good.

The consequence of this state, in reference to the particular sub 
jects treated of in our text, is declared to be, that the Israelites
were delivered into the hand of Clrushan-rishuthuim, king of
Mesopotamia, who held them in bondage for eight years. Meso 
potamia is that part of the ancient country of Syria which lies
.Mesopotaruia is its
between the two rivers Euphrates and 'I'igris.
Greek name) applied to it in reference to its situation, as it denotes
" in the midst of the rivers :" its name in Hebrew expressed the same
thing-it was" Aram Naliaraim," or " Syria of two rivers." Syria
is very often. mentioned in the Word, and it always denotes, in the
the knowledgcs of goodness and truth, either
spiritual sense,
genuine or in a state of perversion.
The truths of the Church are
called knowledges, while they abide in the memory, but are not
appropriated in the life, in which case they are in reality without
the' man and not within him; just as the country of Syria lay
without and not within the land of Canaan, to which it was con ..
tiguous. To come, then, under the dominion of the king of Meso 
potamia; is to come into a state in which the truths of the church,
loved, only
being no longer alive in us through being lived or
exist as mere knowledges in the memory; and when they even
are falsified, so as to be made, by wrong interpretations, to appear
to confirm the falsities and evils of the natural man.
In this state,
the truths of the church, and whatever has been received in the
mind from the Lord, are in reality made vile slaves.

This at length the children of Israel felt and deplored, which is

represented by its being said, that they cried to the Lord.
It is
remarkable that this phrase is used on every occasion of the op 
pression of the Israelites recorded in this book, and in numerous
other instances; as when the children of Israel were oppressed in
Egypt, it is said that "they cried, and their cry came up unto
Gail."
'I'his denotes, that when man is truly sensible of the state
in which he is, and is sincerely desirous to be delivered from it,
then, and not before, deliverance is afforded. As, to worship the
gods of Canaau.is to give that place in the mind to evil affections,
which is due only to the Lord, so to cry to the Lord is to look to
hi111 for help from the deepest recesses of the heart-to be actuated
by such a desire to escape from the thraldom of our corruptions as
has the Lord in reality in it, being a desire of which he is the
Author and man the receiver, though a free one, and which, thus
coming from him, is sure to reach to him, and then deliverance will
'I'his deliverance is here described as wrought by Othniel,
follow.
the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother; respecting whom as the
conqueror of Kirjath-Sepher, we lately delivered a discourse (p. 9).
Suffice it then to state now, that by him is represented a principle
of truth originating in good of an elevated order; and by his being
raised up for the work. by the Lord, is represented, that when such
a desire for deliverance as we have already described,
is excited,
man is gifted in his mind with such a genuine principle of truth
derived from good, and invested with such power from the Lord,
as 'will speedily rescue his knowlcdgcs oftruth from perversion, and
restore his mind to order ill 0 bedieuce to the Lord.

Be it then our constant care to prevent our knowledges of Divine
things from degenerating into mere knowledges undirected by any
view to use: and if we at any time experience a tendency to such
perversion, let us not be slow to cry unto the Lord, and to seek
from Him such a principle of real truth from good as a governing
impulse, as shall restore the state to order, and revive a genuine
spiritual principle such as shall prevail through all our life and con 
duct, securing us for ever in our heavenly inheritance.

SERlVION v.

Judges iii. 12, 13, l·~k
" And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord . 
and the Lord strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel,
in the sight of ilie Lord. And he
because they had done evil
gathered unto him the children of Ammon, and Anuilek, and toent
and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm trees.
So the
children of Israel served Eglon the kiTty of Moab eighteen years.
W HEN we endeavour to unfold in the slight degree in which we arc
enabled, a few of the innumerable mysteries which are involved. ill
the regeneration of the individual member of the church) it may
be necessary now and then to introduce a word of caution, to pre 
vent the simple mind from concluding too hastily, that the work of
regeneration is so arduous and complicated a IJrocess, that there is
no hope of ever being led through what it involves. Whilst tllf
recondite meaning of the I-Ioly VVord is only brought forward as i
matter of curious discovery, and, in unfolding the spiritual subjects
which are contained under the covering of the letter, especially ill
such extraordinary histories as that of which our text is a part, the
chief object is to defend the divinity of the IIoly book, and to prove
its claims to be received as divinely inspired) by shewing that it
contains stores of wisdom within it which none but the Divine
Mind could conceiveJ-even the natural man may feel
interested,
and take delight, in the discussion: because in this case the hea 
venly treasures of the Holy Word appear as matters of deep yet
amusing speculation; and the love of knowledge, which is a prin...
ciple of the natural man, though the highest of which he is capable,
is alone sufficient to make such speculations agreeable to us. How
powerful a principle the love of knowledge is,
is proved by the
labours of body and mind which men who make science their pur 
suit, will often undergo for its gratification ; whilst the melancholy
fact that some of the most distinguished of them have been enemies
to the revealed will of God,
fully evinces that the love of know 
ledge is one of the affections of the natural man; though, as just
observed, it is the highest of these affections, because it is emi 
nently useful to the spiritual man, being a principle implanted in

v.]

Chap. iii. 12, 13, 14.

37

our nature to serve as a means of our passing from the dominion of
the natural man to that of the spiritual, and without which this
great object of our creation could not be accomplished. Now it is
inherent in the love of knowledge, to be more delighted with things
of a recondite and abstruse nature than with such as are COUlman.
and plain, or with knowledges of a high, than with those of a low
'I'he more exalted the subject respecting which the means
order,
of acquiring kwowledge are presented, the higher is the satisfaction
with which the acquisition is made : and hence, where the mind is
not so closed against heavenly things as to deny their
reality
altogether, knowledge respecting them is capable of affording a de 
light altogether similar to that experienced on making scientific
attainments of an ordinary nature, but with many persons more
exquisite, because it is seen that they relate to more noble and ex 
Still this is a natural delight: it is the natural
alted subjects.
man, or
frame which is affected by it ;
which, when it regards the profoundest arcana of the I-Ioly Word
merely in the light of curious information, feels no repugnance at
hearing of it, and experiences in it a gratification similar in its
nature to what it feels _on hearing of new dis.coveries in science,
or in reading the works of adventurous and intelligent travellers or
of elegant historians.

the natural part of our

But when,

in addition to an exposition of some of the general
spiritual contents of the Holy Word, an application is made of
them to individual states, there is room to apprehend that some
minds, even of those who have entered on the work of regeneration
and are sincerely desirous to advance in it, may feel alarm at the
apparent magnitude of the work; and some may conclude, that if
the know ledge of these things is necessary to their being safely ex...
perienced, as they feel little hope of attaining any sufficient share
them to expect the
of SUCll know ledge, so it will be vain for
To guard
blessings consequent upon passing through the states.
against
the depressing effect which such thoughts must have, it
may only be necessary to be assured that they are not founded ill
truth.
It is possible, I have no doubt, to attain a very high state
in the regenerate life, without seeing distinctly the application of
any great portion of
the Holy VVord to the states which may
nevertheless have been experienced. The Lord declares to the
Israelites, at the conclusion of their journey through the wilderness,
"I led you by a way which ye knew not:" to instruct us, that
it is the Lord alone who regulates the steps of our progress, and
the end of it, it is not necessary
that in order to arrive safely at

4

38

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

that we should have an exact knowledge of the way beforehand.
'~hat we ha~e to do is to acknowledge the Lord, (looking con 
tinually to HIm as the sole Author of every thing that can tend to
our tru~ ,:elfare,) and to keep his commandments, striving with 
out remission to recede more and more from tho love and practice
of whatsoever is contrary to them, and to do continuallv with more
and more affection and diligence whatever they enjoin; and all
the rest we may safely leave to the Lord to do for us.
"Then we
have reached the desired haven, and especially when our faculties
~ecei:e that im~r?vement which is consequent upon our pass 
mg Into the spiritual world, and going to our happy home in
heaven, we shall be able to look back upon the road through which
we have been led, and to see distinctly what spiritual associates or
opponents attended us in the way: but in the mean time this is
not practicable; as the Lord said, "What I do ye know not now,
but ye shall know hereafter." There is then, no room for dis 
couragement, let our present state be ever so low or weak, in see 
ing the magnitude of the process of regeneration. Let us remem 
ber that the kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed;
when once it has obtained admission into our hearts, however in 
considerable our first attainments may be,
its after growth is
almost a matter of course; that
'will infallibly proceed to
maturity, without any anxiety of ours about the result, provided we
continue simply to practise what first
implanted it within us  
tha~ is, to look to the Lord and shun evils as sins against Him.
Besides there are certain great resting places, as it were, in our
route. Whoever enters on a spiritual course at all, and does not
make shipwreck by the way, cannot, I apprehend, stop, till the COll 
tents of the greater part of the book of Genesis are fulfilled in him
-that is, till he attains the state described by the subordination
of the land of Egypt under the authority of Joseph:
in which case,
should he die at that time, or even before its completion, he will at 
tain a state of happiness in the lowest or first heaven.
If he goes
b~yo~d this, I apprehend there is no permanent abiding place for
him fill the contents of the remaining books of Moses, those of the
bo?~ of Joshua, and of the first chapter of Judges, have been
spiritually experienced by him; in which case
should he die at
that time, or even before it, he will become an'inhabitant of the
second or spiritual heaven :-for whoever departs from this world
after a general stage is entered upon, but before it is finished has
it completed in the world of spirits before he is taken up'into
the present day go
heaven.

It is not probable that many at

is, it

v.]

Chap. iii. 12, 13, 14~

39

Let us then, not be :0 un 

beyond tl.lis. To be qualified for the spiritual heaven is a very high
and glOI'IOUS state. But we know that it
is the wish of our
heavenly Father to lead us further than even this. He would if it
:vere possible, raise us to absolute oneness with Himself, so ~s to
Impart to us all
the divine perfections which constitute His own
nature, in al~ their infinite fulness; but as this is impossible, He
ardently desires to raise us to the highest state which a finite
creature call be made capable of enjoying j and it is nothing but
our own fearfulness and obstinacy which prevents the desiens of
~is boundless love from taking effect.
WIse as to draw any matter for discouragement from the almost end 
les.s succession of states which are represented in the history of the
children of !srael after their establishment in the promised land, but
let us consider every new scene in which we find the Israelites
engaged) not as an additional obstacle to be surmounted and thus
as a discouragement, but as a further height of glory to b: obtained
aud thus as a stimulus. Most people believe that there will be a
?ontinual increase of perfection and blessedness going on for ever
In those who attain the regions of heavenly felicity: now there can
be no increase in perfection in heaven but by the further and further
removal of the seat of our affections from our selfish nature : and
this is exactly what is to take place in us while here, and what is
represented by the sufferings of the Israelites from their enemies
and their deliverances from them: only there is this difference,
that OUl: advancement be~ore we enter heaven is effected by means
of conflicts and temptations : whereas, when our state is so far
rendered complete as to admit of our being received into heaven
theu advance without any struggles, and our eternal stat~
it. will
WIll be truly that which is represented by the sabbath of rest. But
the basis from whence we commence this career of tranquil advance 
ment there, will be that which is attained by our active advance 
ment here: let us then set our minds upon the things that are
before us, and from every history of the Word draw an incentive
to our progress.

QUI' present text details the account of the enslavement of the
Israe~it~s by Eglon king. of Moab; and it is followed by the
description of the very singular circumstances attending the as 
sassination of Eglon, which was the first step to the deliverance
of Israel.
Some of these particulars we propose to endeavour to
elucidate in another discourse; at present we will offer such ob 
servations, as appear naturally to arise out of the words before us
and may tend to throw a light on the circumstances mentioned.

'

40

'Sermons on Judges.

[Scrm.

the church,

to the man of

" The children of Israel did evil again," it is said, " in the sight
of the Lord; and the Lord strengthened Eglon the king of Moab
against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of the Lord."
What an important lesson do these words at
the very first glance,
convey.
They plainly instruct us that when we fall into spiritual
captivity, so as to lose the freedom which is felt when the mind en 
joys' a serene consciousness of the divine presence and favour, it is
the result of evil done by us, or at least latent in us, and to which we
~ We see also, that when we are in this state we
inwardly incline.
really are in spiritual captivity: for the Moabites, being a different
nation from the Israelites, though descended, but by an unlawful
connexion, from the same original stock, must needs represent
something of the natural man separate from the spiritual, and,
when not under the dominion of the spiritual, in opposition to it.
individually, by the
With respect
children of Israel's doing evil in the sight of the Lord, is not meant,
that the man who has advanced so far in the regenerate life, as to
have attained the state represented by the taking possession of
Canaan, will afterwards fall into the habitual practice of gross. evils,
for if he did he would be guilty of profanation; but by this circum 
stance is meant, that the man in this state makes a new discovery
, of some evil tendencies in his nature which he had not been aware
of before, and comes into temptation by the excitement of evils
to which, of himself, 11e inclines, although it is in opposition to the
new life of heavenly affections which reign in him from the Lord.
How far a person really advanced in the regenerate life may by any
possibility be guilty of actual evils, perhaps cannot be determined;
but that he should commit any of those contained in the decalogue,
in their external form, I think can scarcely be supposed. We wish
,to speak with gentleness on this subject, because we should be un 
willing to say any thing which might drive anyone to despair;
although a right apprehension of the nature of the divine laws can
have no tendency to beget despair ill anyone, as we are assured
that it .is never altogether too late to begin a new course of life,
.and that repentance, when of that sincere kind, which alone is
called repentance inthe Word) and which consists, not merely in
sorrow for our sins, but in a real desisting from and forsaking them
in procuring for the
~that such repentance will always avail
sinner a lot in the heavenly kingdom.
But we still think it may
with certainty be affirmed, that none who is subject to lapses into
gross evils, can have previously attained any advanced state in the
regenerate life; wherefore if any such have fancied so, let them

v.]

Chap. iii. 12, 13, 14.

41

from the circumstance learn humility, and be content to take the
lowest place, with gratitude that such a place is still left for their
To steal, to lie, to commit adultery, and the like, are
at tainment,
evidently crimes which belong only to those who have not entered
on a religious life at all, and they must be abstained from before
we can advance into the lowest degree of preparation for heaven.
there are many things which are less taken notice 0(,
But
which nevertheless must be surmounted before we can attain
any elevated state in that progress. How much is to be done
and endured before our tempers, for instance, are so regulated, as"
never to betray any indications of dispositions contrary to charity
and humility j and even when they are so regulated as never to
exhibit the presence of improper affections, how much more is yet
to -bo done before the mind is altogether so free from the influence
of such affections, as to be relieved from the necessity of keeping a
constant watch over the tempers, ill consequence of a renewal of
the will itself, so that improper influences can no longer exert a
power within us. Thus there are innumerable things in us which
at first are little noticed either by ourselves or by others, which
yet, as our perception of spiritual goodness and truth becomes
1110re acute, assume in our estimation the form of most serious
evils, and are SUCll in reality, because they are connected, as is then
plainly discovered, with evil lusts that have a very deep seat in our
selfish nature. Besides, we know that all
the divine command.
ments have three distinct senses, a natural, a spiritual, and a
celestial, and we shall find in ourselves propensities that are op 
posed to the two latter, long after an obedience to them in their
literal sense has become habitual and easy.
It is easy then to see
how the candidate for heaven, and who is preparing for a superior
station therein, will find such passages as that now before us ap 
plicable to his state, long after he has learned to desist entirely
from such outward conduct as a common observer can condemn as
criminal.
. With respect
to the particular nature of the state represented
by a captivity under the king of Moab, this may, in some measure,
be apprehended by those who are acquainted with the views which
we have formerly endeavoured to develope on the character of
those who are represented by Moabites in the Holy Word.
In
brief, the Moabites are they, who, while they profess a general
respect for the things of the church, adulterate the good of the
church by separating it from its ·truth, considering mere natural
affection, separate from an attention to the requirements of the

4*

42

Sermons on Judges.

ESeI'm,

treated of,

Holy Word, as sufficient for salvation.
It is interestina to observe
he,re the marriage of goodness and truth which ever/where pre 
vails throughout the Holy Word, by virtue of which no sooner is
good t~le subject
than something immediately follows
respecting truth, and vice versa.
Thus, as was noticed in our
preceding discourse, the captivity of the Israelites under the king of
Mesop.otamia, denotes a state in which k nowledgcs of truth alone
are prized and sought after, but which knowledaes are in reality
falsified in consequence of being separated from the good and love
and life with which they should be united: So now, the captivity
?nder .the· king of J\10ab represents a state the counterpart of this,
111 w~lch good alone is extolled as being all
that is requisite to
constitute the church in man, but in which, as the good is separate
from truth, it is mere blind natural affection, defiled by a mixture
with the evils of the selfhood. There is reason to believe that the
state represented by Moab is one which abounds very rnuch in the
church at
this day. The numerous good humoured men of the
world, WIlO trouble themselves little about matters of doctrine
but. pride themselves upon being good sort of people, friendly i~
their general manners, and capable of feeling the more amiable
affections of the natural man, may probably be in general con 
sidered as spiritual Moabites. And the man of the true church
falls under the dominion of the Moabites, when he suffers his re 
gard to spiritual views and ends to become quiescent, and conforms
himself too far to the manners of the world,

The king of Moab however, was unable, it appears, to subdue
,the Israelites with his own forces alone, but he called in the assist 
ance of the Ammonites and the Amalekites, The Ammonites,
whose ancestor was brother to the ancestor of the Moabites, repre 
sent a falsification of truth corresponding with that adulteration of
good which is denoted by the Moabites. What the specific cha 
racter of the falsified truth represented by the Ammonites is, I know
not that we have sufficient grounds for determining; but I have
often thought that
the worship of their idol, the horrid M oloch,
in honour of whom his worshipers threw their children into the
,is an apt emblem of the Deity worshiped by those who
flames,
believe the doctrine of predestination, and suppose that man's
eternal state is determined by an eternal decree which no efforts
on his part can get revoked, and in consequence of which the
greater portion of mankind are unalterably destined to eternal
fire. The Amalekites, again, denote a false persuasion of a very
deep nature, grounded in interior evil, or in the deep-seated evil

v.]

Chap. iii. 12, 13, 14.

43

The nature of

this may be
propensities of the natural man.
gathered f1'o111 the first place where the Amalekites are mentioned
is said that the Ama 
which is in the 17th of Exodus, where it
Ickites came and fought with Israel in Repbic1im. Now this at 
tack of the Amalekites upon the Israelites, took place immediately
after the latter had undergone the temptation from the want of
water at Massah and Meribah : and by the assault of the Ama 
lekites afterwards is meant a false persuasion arising in the mind
'
~nc .sug~e.stlng to the man that it is in vain for him to persevere
In Ius spiritual course, for that it consists of nothing but trials, in
some or other of which he must inevitably be lost. The Ama 
lekites, however, were then conquered by the holding .up of Moses'
to denote, that while we keep all the powers of the mind
hands,
elevated to the Lord .we shall be secured from every danger, and
from tl:e assaults even of despair; from being depressed by any
itself respecting the difficulty and
suggestion that Inay present
danger of the path to heaven.

1

.

~hese united forces then came and smote the city of palm trees,
which was a name given to Jericho, and which probably, after the
destr?-ct~on of Jericho, was a place in its vicinity. The situation
of this CIty, at the entrance of the land of Canaan shews it to be
the principle whereby there is introduction into the church which
is, by the doctrine of truth from good: wherefore to smite this
city is ~o deprive this .doctrine of its power, and thereby to prevent
any thing from flowing from the spiritual mind into the natural.
By the ~octrin~ of truth from good,
is meant not a mere principle
of doctrine by Itself, but a doctrine so combined with affection for
t~le duties ,v~lich it prescribes, as to be determined forcibly into
life and practice. The nature of this principle, however, will be
more easily seen, when we come to describe in another discourse
·
"V rat IS represented by Ehud, who was raised up as a deliverer on
this occasion.
Suffice it to say, that when the truths we know or
t~e doctrines we profess, have no determination to life and p~ac­
tice, they. are of n? .avail ~hatever in promoting or maintaining
our state In the spiritual Iife, The communication is then cut off
between the internal luau and the external; and such principles
as ~re represented by the Moabites, the Ammonites, and the Ama 
lekI~es s\vay the mind, and ~hreaten the extinction of every spiritual
attainment and heavenly hope and prospect.

1

"

From this brief view of the invasion of Eglon and its conse 
~ue~ces, we see the importance of ever watching against the yield 
mg In any degree, to the suggestions of the natural man in any of

44

Sermons on Judges.

[Berm. v.]

.his allurements to evil.
If the children of Israel had' not done evil
in the sight of the Lord, Eglon would have had no power to hurt
them j but when this is done in any degree, our security against
infernal influences is gone, and nothing but such a repentance as
is described in the next verse, and which we shall consider in our
next discourse, can save us from ruin.

SERMON VI.

Judges iii. 15-21.
C( But -uihen the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, the Lord
(raised them up a delioerer, Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a
man left-handed. And by him. the children of Israel sent a present
unto Eglon the king of Moab. But Ehud made liisn. a dagger
which Iuul iioo edges of a cubit
length; and he did ,gird it under
his raiment, UjJon his right thigh. And he brou.ght the present
unto Eglon king of Moab : and Eglon toas a very fat man. And
when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the
people that bare the present, But he himself turned again from
the quarries that uiere by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand
unto thee, U king.1 who said, Keep silence. And all that stood by
him went out /1"0712 him, And Eltud carne unto him : and he was
sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone. And
Ehud said, I have a message [rom God unto thee. And he arose
out of (his) seat. And Eluul put fo'/"th his left hand, ana took tile
aagger front his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly."

WE have already,
in our last discourse, considered the state of
captivity into which the Israelites had fallen to Eglon the king of
Moab, as related in the three verses which precede those just read,
and the means of their deliverance from which are described in the
singular history which we have now taken for our text. We have
seen that, when understood in its spiritual sense, according to the
relation which it bears to the advancement of an individual mem 
ber of the Lord's church in the regeneration, it describes a state of
temptation which is incurred, in consequence of the opening of a
new depth in. the corrupt part of the human mind, in which the
man is infested by the predominance of merely natural ends and
objects, such as are regarded by those who entertain the persua 
sion that natural goodness alone will suffice for their salvation, and
under the influence of which he is in danger of becoming a mere
man of the world. WeJ in the same discourse, also offered some
observations with a view of guarding the inexperienced mind from
concluding, that regeneration must be a state unattainable, if such
a boundless variety of distinct steps are included in it; by shewing

46

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

that provided we are attentive in the performance of the two con 
ditions on which alone it depends, which are, to acknowledge and
ever look to the Lord alone, and to obey His commandments, we
may rely upon being led safely on, whether we have any very dis 
tinct views of the roads, and places of sojourning, or not. But it
may be asked, If this is all that is absolutely nec~ssary on o~r
parts, what need to be prying into these deep mysteries ? .And .If
but few attain the degree of advancement internally described In
the book of Judges, what use can it be to us to know any thin?" of
its nature? Both these questions may be answered by observing,
That, as it is absolutely necessary, to advance in the l'ege~eration
at all, we should learn to look to the Lord and keep hIS com 
mandments, it is also necessary that all religious instruction and
exhortation, especially that delivered from the pulpit, should ever
keep these objects in view. But always to dwell upon them in
their simplest form only, would become tedious by its sameness and
by the frequent repetitions to which we must have reco~rse: all
which are avoided by unfolding passages of the Word which have
reference properly to distinct states; whilst
the same end is ob-
fwtained when it is shewn, as every part of the Word must shew,
that the same general lesson results from them all.
Surely the
necessity of acknowledging the Lord and keeping His comman~­
ments, must press upon us with tenfold force, when we thus find It
meeting us, as it were, at every corner. As observed on .former
occasions, although the states to be passed through at different
'periods have specific differences, yet they have ge~eral ~imilitudes :
and .thus from a description of what takes place In a higher state,
we may derive instruction suited to our improvement in a 10,~er.
In the second place it may be observed, that knowledge respecting
states beyond those which we may at present have attained, ought
surely to be as delightful to the mind intent upon spiritual improve 
ment, as knowledge respecting remote countries or objects is found
to be to the students of natural science. To acquire information
respecting the remote countries on this globe, the nature of their
soil and productions, and the manners of their inhabitants, is found
to be a wish so conzenial to human nature, that many expeditions,
\attended with great danger and expense have been fitted out with
i. this object alone. Nor is the love of knowledge, so natural to
man, satisfied with learning what is to be seen and is contained in
the whole of the earth we inhabit, but it has pushed its researches
into other worlds, and seeks information, not only respecting the
planets which belong, with our own earth, to the same solar 8YS-

vi.]

Chap. iii. 15-21.

47

tern, but respecting the other" systems distant far, spread through
the boundless skies." Numerous are the ways in which the in 
genuity of man has been exerted to gratify this thirst; and the
little which has thus. been discovered respecting the innumerable
systems of worlds and of suns which every where fill the regions of
interminable space, is prized in proportion to the difficulties which
lay in the way of its attainment. Now surely it should not be said,
that in this respect the children of this world are wiser that the
children of light.
Surely some acquaintance with the more ad 
vanced states in the course of the regeneration, being what we all
may, and ought to desire to attain, ought to be far more interesting
to us, thau the knowledge of remote countries and distant worlds,
where they never can go, are found to the disciples of natural
science. And if such attainments in natural science, though not
conducive to any immediate use, are still highly beneficial by their
tendency to enlarge the faculties of the mind, and by the light
they often throw upon things of more direct utility, doubtless the
study of such subjects as ,ve have been speaking of, must improve
the mind in general, and tend to throw light upon subjects con 
nected with our immediate states, in a far higher proportion. Be 
sides, though we have remarked that. but few can have really en 
tered into the states described in the historical relations we are at
present considering, yet we cannot say but that some may have
done so. Let us then endeavour to enlarge our views of spiritual
subjects by the occasional contemplation of such as we have been
speaking of: but let us, whatever our own state may be, endeavour
to render such contemplations truly profitable to us, by appropriat 
ing the incentives which they afford to a more earnest pursuit of
heavenly objects, to a more entire rejection of evil from the heart
and life, a more faithful cultivation of the truly saving principles of
love and charity, a more complete confidence in the Lord's mercy
and assistance, and a more settled habit of keeping the mind
elevated continually to Him, with that interior prayer which opens
it for the reception of blessings from Him,

The subj ect however which is at present before us, while it shews in
what manner the state in the regenerating individual represented by
the captivity of the Israelites under Eglon, is terminated, also shews
how judgment is performed on such persons as are represented by Eg 
lon and the Moabites, when they have so filled up the measure of their
iniquity as entirely to have separated themselves from all connection
with the heavenly kingdom, and thus to be beyond the sphere of
divine protection. We will therefore, by way of varying the scene,

48

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm

consider it chiefly in this reference, which is a very awful and im 
pressive one; but first to continue the connection of the subject in
the other point of view, we will as briefly as possible, touch upon
the relation of the history to individual states.

As we have before shewn that the Moabitcs, in a general sense,
represent those who, without much regard to the spiritual things
of the church, think to be saved merely in consequence of possess 
ing some amiable dispositions from nature, it of course follows,
that when, applied to the states of the regenerating member of the
church, they must represent the tendency to such a persuasion ex 
isting in every human mind,-or those principles in the constitu 
tion of the natural man, which, if allowed to obtain the decided rule
within us, would make us altogether of this character ourselves.
The nature of this principle, and the kind of adulteration of good
which it induces, we have considered at large on former occasions.
Ehud, then, by WhOlU the deliverance of the Israelites was effected,
must of course signify something directly thereverse of this-that
kind of good which is not the spurious offspring of mere nature, but
such as results from bringing the truths ,of the Word into the life,
the good actions springing from whence are not
the offspring of a
,blind impulse, but of an enlightened apprehension of the will of the
Lord; being what is sometimes called in the the New Church Writ 
ings, truth in act. As this might be inferred from the character of
the enemies to whom Ehud was opposed, so is it rendered certain
by the information which is given respecting his family; for it is
said that he was a Benjamite; of course he must represent some
,specific heavenly grace of the same general character, which is re 
presented by Benjamin the founder of his tribe; and what this is,
is made evident in the history of Joseph and his brethren. When
Joseph was ruler over
the land of Egypt, he represented the
celestial internal within the natural; and his brethren, by whom
he had been sold into slave.ry, and who had even entertained the
thought of killing him, represented the truths of the church as
first existing in the external man, in which though they are the
offspring of the internal, they at
first appear in the shape of the
mere knowledges of heavenly things, and being as yet only
conjoined with such affections as belong to the external man, they
are unwilling to become obedient to the pure affections of the in 
ternal, represented by Joseph. At last however, this takes place,
to bring into life whatever
'but not till a real disposition is felt
is known respecting spiritual subjects from the Lord.
This is the
-only medium by which the internal man and the external can be

vi.]

Chap. iii. 15-21.

49

conjoined; and this is what is represented by Benjamin: this, then,
is the reason why, notwithstanding the penitence which Joseph's
brethren manifested for their former ill-treatment of him, he did
not discover himself to them till they brought with them Benjamin.
Thus Benjamin represents truth in act; which is a disposition and
determination in the external man to bring into practice the hea 
venly 'will of the internal: and when this exists in the external, the
external and internal can be in conjunction, and not before.

Now, as Benjamin denotes a principle of action in the external
from the internal, we see the propriety of its being said, that Ehud,
who delivered the Israelites from the oppression of the king of
Moab, was a Benjamite. For the king of J\10ab, we have before
seen, represents a principle of seeming but not genuine good that is
of the natural or external man alone; and he acquires an influence
in the mind by obtaining possession of the city of palm trees; by
which is represented,
the shutting up of the communication be..
tween the spiritual
IT1an or mind and the natural, or the internal
and the external: deliverance then from a domination of this kind,
must needs be effected by opening with power a principle in the
mind, by which the communication between the internal and ex..
tern al is restored, an d the natural man seeks to do good from the
spiritual, and not from itself alone. This then is what is repre 
sented when it is said, that the Lord raised up for them a deliverer,
It denotes the opening in the
Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite.
natural man, by a strong influx from the spiritual, and from the
Lord Himself, who is inmostly present therein, of a determination
to bring into practice all the divine commandments, and the fixing
in the mind of a steady principle, of which this is always the ten 
dency and object. When this is fully formed within us,
the
tyranny of Moab cannot last much longer.
So long as light from
the internal man, or what amounts to the same, from the Lord
Himself through heaven, is shut out" it may be possible to imagine
that the exercise of the more amiable of the natural affections, may
be sufficient to qualify us for heaven, and even that the indulgence
of any of the impulses which have a basis in our natural disposi 
tions will not exclude us: but when the communication between
the internal man and the external
in which case the
rational faculty is truly enlightened, it is seen that all good, to be
genuine, must have respect to eternal considerations and to the
Lord Himself, and that, in reality, no good that may appear such
outwardly is such inwardly, except so far as evils are resisted and
held in abhorrence as sins against God. A determination inspired

is open,

5

50

Sermons on Judges.

[SerrrL

vi.]

Chap. iii. 15~21.

51

by the Lord, continually to act under the influence of these con 
is what is represented by Benjamin in the Holy "T ord,
victions,
except when he is described as being in a state of rebellion; and
the specific application of this general principle to the removal of
the influence of the evil represented by the Moabites,
is what is
denoted by his descendant Ehnd.
'I'his signification of Benjamin
is the reason that lie is the last of the tribes mentioned as being
sealed in their foreheads, in the Revelation, where, as explained in
the New Church Writings, he signifies the life of truth resulting
from the doctrine of good and truth that will prevail in the 1~ew
Church: he also there signifies the conjunction of those who are
in the ultimate heaven with the Lord, which evidently must arise
from their being in a life according to such doctrine.

We see then, my brethren, of what indispensable moment it is
to cherish in the mind, not merely the knowledges of truth, an ac 
quaintance with the doctrines of the Church, but a fixed determina 
tion, living by an inward communication with the Lord, to bring
SUCll knowledges into life and activity. Without this, we shall be
disposed to rest in mere doctrine alone, and shall hold the highest
truths in all
the harsh, unhallowed spirit of the open ad vocate of
the doctrine of faith alone. When -\ve hear that pure spiritual love
must be exalted to the dominion within us, that a heavenly Joseph,
who represents the spiritual principle in general, which is pure
truth united with good and manifesting itself in the affections of
charity, must take the lead within us, we shall be disposed to resist,
and even to extinguish this heavenly principle altogether: 110r can
our knowledges of truth be conjoined with this, their proper in...
ternal, until a Benjamin is established as a medium to unite them ;
-until there exists a firm determination of our truths to life.
'I'his
is a state which m list
take place early in the regenerate life, as it
.belongs to the process by which man is regenerated as to the first
'I'he effects of it will) however, be ex 
or spiritual-natural degree.
for when a
perienced through all
Benjamin is thus found to unite the internal with the external in
the natural degree, an Ehud may afterwards be raised up further
to extend this union, to liberate us from Moabitish domination,
and to" prepare the natural man for still further improvement
'under the influence of the genuine celestial.

the states that will succeed:

With respect to the manner in which the operations are carried
on in the interiors of the mind, to 'effect the removal thence of the
corrupt principle represented by Eglon and the establishment of
the heaven-derived determination to good conduct, represented by

Ehud in its place, information is afforded in the remainder of our
present text. To elucidate this fully, would require several dis 
courses, which would be inconsistent with the plan at present pro 
posed: we will, therefore, only explain some of the leading parti 
culars in a very brief manner. And as, when brevity is an object,
they admit more easily of an explanation of a general nature
referring to the divine judgments really incurred by those
as
who are spiritually Moabites, it is in this point of view that
we will consider them.
It will be easy for everyone to make
the application to individual states, by remembering, that in this
view, both Moabites and Israelites represent certain principles
abiding in the mind of the regenerating subject, whereas in. the
general application, the Moabites represent
those persons who are
confirmed in the kind of adulteration of good which has been be 
those who are the true
fore described, and the Israelites represent
members of the church; and in this case Ehud will represent the
Lord Himself as to that principle in the Divine nature, from which
the faithful are rescued, and the evil of this quality are separated
from heaven and left to sink into the infernal dungeons, which are
the native seats of the motives and ends of life which they have
made their own.

the time of

It appears then that judgment comes upon the wicked of this
their receiving a present from the
description at
Israelites; by which is denoted their arrogant persuasion that
their pretended good is the real good of
the church, and that all
the truths of the Word ought to be so explained as to confirm that
For the Moabites to exact a present or tribute from the
it is so.
Israelites, is to apply the holy things of the church to confirm their
ruling principle; and when this is done by the wicked, as it always
is when they are confirmed in their evil state, in spirit, at least,
if not in outward form, its effect is, entirely to close heaven against
.
them and to render them liable to the destruction which awaits
all who are not protected by the reception of some degree of
By Ehud, who ~le~
spiritual life through heaven from the Lord.
the king of Moab, being said to be a man left-handed, or as It IS
given literally in the margin, "shut of his right hand," that is,
having no use of his
is described the appearance
to those who are in evil, as if the Lord as to His Divine Truth
had no power to hurt
them-the right hand always denoting
power. By Ehuc1's dagger with t\VO edges, is meant the divine
truth proceeding from the Lord to execute judgment upon .those
who are in evils and falsities,-the two edges are expressly men...

right hand,

,

52

Sermons on Judges.

[SerIno vi.]

indeed it

tioned, to denote that the divine truth of the Word is equally op 
posed to both. By its' being concealed under his raiment,
is
denoted, that divine truth in the letter of the 'Vord does not
appear to be of such a quality, since the evil can falsify it to serve
their own purposes, when nevertheless it is:
is in con 
sequence of their falsifying the Word,
that it becomes a sharp
sword, cutting them off from all communication with the heavenly
kingdom. By his bringing the present to Eglon, is meant, as be 
fore, the assumption by the wicked of supremacy over the things
of the church, and their making them seem to favour their loves;
and Eglon is here said to be a very fat man, to denote the deep
degree of adulteration of all genuine good which is in this state
By Ehud's sending away the people that were with
incurred.
him, is
signified the Lord's care, when judgment is performed,
that they who are really in truths should not be hurt, and the
cutting off of communication between them and the evil to secure
this object.
By Ehud's returning, and coming to the king of
Moab in a summer parlour which he had for himself alone, is ex 
pressed the deep exploration of the interior state of the evil at the
time of judgment, when all their exteriors, in which they appeared
outwardly like upright members of the church, are stripped away,
and their inmost hidden quality, which is altogether wicked and
is detected by the piercing light of divine truth. By
profane,
Ehud's then putting forth his left hand) is meant the judgment
then. performed as from truth alone, which, separated from its
good, of which the wicked are not receptive, condemns all to hell:
that nevertheless this proceeds from divine good in the Lord, is
meant by his taking his dagger from his right thigh: and by his
thrusting it into his [Eglon's] belly, is described the entrance of truth
in. this separated .state, which deprives the wicked of the appearance
of spiritual life which they had before assumed, anclleaves them
no refuge but in the abodes of death eternal.

Here then, my brethren, we see how awful is the state of those
who so submit themselves to the bondage of the king of Moab as
to become of the same character themselves: but we see also, that
if, on discovering in our own selfish nature the tendencies to such
a state, we strive to resist
them, and with this view look to the
Lord and live according to his commandments, he will remove
from us the infernal powers by whose agency such evils are ex 
cited, and will, by the same power of his Divine Truth quickened
within us, restore us to genuine liberty, and light, and life.

SERMON VII.

Judges iv. 12-16.
¢c And they shewed Sisera that Barak, the son of Abinoam, was gone
up to Mount Tabor.
And Sisera gathered together all his
chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people
that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles unto the river
of Kishon. And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day
in 'lvhich the Lord hath. delivered Sisera into thy hand: is not the
So Barak went down from Mount
Lord gone out before thee?
Tabor, and ten thousand men after him. And the Lord discom-
fited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge
of the sword, before Barak; so that Sisera lighted down off his
chariot, and fled azoay on his feet, But Barak pursued after the
Chariots, and after the host, unto Haroshetb of the Gentiles. Ana
all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there
was not a man left.

last discourse we considered the history of

Lris a remarkable circumstance attending the relations of the op 
pressions and deliverances of the Israelites, recorded in this book
called that of the Judges, that every distinct narrative seems to
surpass that which preceded it in the singularity of the occurrences
which are detailed, and in the interest which it
is consequently
adapted to excite, even in the mind of the .superficial reader.. In
our
the dellver 
ance of the sons of Jacob from the tyranny of. the Moabites, by
the bold and desperate act of Ehud, a man left-handed: in the
narrative at present before us we have the account of a still more
extraordinary effort for escaping from the yoke of an enemy, begun
by the heaven-inspired heroism of one female champion, and com 
pleted by the subtlety and b~ldness ~f .another. This is f?llowed
by the still more wonderful histcry ol GIdeon, who after being en 
couraged by some most extraordinary signs, to undertake ~he ~eenl­
ingly impossible task of rescuing his country from the domination of
the Midianites, at length accomplished it with an army of only three
hundred men, selected by the most singular of tests. Nor is the story
of J ephthah and his celebrated rash vow less extraordinary: whi~st
this again is surpassed by the unparalleled occurrences which dIS,

54

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

tinguished the life, and death of Samson; whose adventures,
(if
such a word may be used in reference to such subjects,) which,
whenconsidered apart from the divine instruction which they con 
tain, are more amusing perhaps than any work of mere fiction,
possess, as we all, no doubt recollect, so strong a charm for youth 
ful minds, and so greatly tend to win them to the perusal of the
Scriptures. Now, Divine Mercy has provided that the historical
books of Scripture. should possess
this entertainiug character,
partly with this express design; that at an age when didactic pre 
cepts would not be understood, and to minds which would be little
disposed to read a merely didactic work, the Bible should be made
inviting. For little as some may be disposed to believe it, the
mere reading of the Bible, even when the spiritual instruction con 
tained in it is not at all perceived, has a beneficial effect on the
human mind, when done in simplicity and with SOHle sense of its
For within the letter are contained interior senses
holiness.
adapted to the apprehension of the angels of all
the heavens,
which, when the literal sense is read on earth, are perceived by the
angels who communicate with the interiors of the human mind :
.and though, on account of their being in an interior or higher de 
gree of life than that in which man is so long as he lives in the
world, what they perceive, or their thoughts of exalted wisdom,
cannot be communicated to the reader, yet the heavenly affections
which, on such occasions are excited in them, do in some measure
affect him or move his feelings., He thus unconsciously holds com 
munication with heaven, and through heaven with thc Lord, and
is connected with the Lord and His kingdom by invisible bonds,
which insensibly tend to withdraw him from a connection with the
kingdom of darkness. Thus, also, states are prepared in the in 
teriors of the mind, which at a future period lllay be brought to
light, and tend essentially to advance his regeneration.
I-!O\V im 
portant then it is, since Infinite Goodness has thus accornmodated
itself to human infirmity, that we should not suffer it to be in vain;
that parents and tutors should lead children to take pleasure in
reading the IIoly Word in simplicity, and that adult persons should
regularly follow the same practice, endeavouring, however, to read
it with some degree of understanding.'

However, though it is certain that

the reading of the Holy
Word with. simplicity, is productive of spiritual advantages, the
extent of .which is in proportion to the holy reverence with which
it is regarded, it is equally certain that it would not have this
effect were it not for the stores of divine wisdom which are in-

vii.]

Chap. iv, 12-16.

55

included within its letter. Were it an amusing history and
nothing more, the reading of it could be productive of no ad 
Angels take no interest in mere historical
vantages whatsoever.
relations, however gratifying they may be to the natural imagina 
tion; nor could the perusal of such compositions be effective of
any consociation between the heavenly world and the mind of
To be the Word of God, and thus to have the power of
mall.
affecting the inhabitants of his immediate, kingdom, lessons of
eternal wisdom must be contained within, destitute of which the
reading of the exploits of Gideon and Samson would conduce no
more to man's eternal benefit, than if the whole were a romance.
Wilen, also, its spiritual contents are perceived or known, all the
difficulties arising from the questionable morality of some of the
distinguished parties in the narration, are removed; an d we see
110W the whole can be the Word of God, notwithstanding thedeeds
of an Ehud and a J ael; deeds which, though perhaps allowable ac 
cording to the law of nations that prevailed in those distant ages,
partake too much of treachery and deceit
to be themselves agree 
able to the divine will, or to have been performed by persons who
were themselves interior subjects of a spiritual dispensation. The
slaughter of Eglon by Ehud, which we considered in our last dis 
course, though effected under fair pretences, and thus by treachery,
was indeed no more than would have been done and gloried in by
the most illustrious heroes of Greece and Rome, amongst whom
tyrannicide, by whatever means accomplished, was deemed a
meritorious act; although the brighter light of the Christian dis 
pensation shews us decidedly, that evil is not to be done that good
may come; but it 11lay be doubted whether any national opinions
or customs ever existed that would justify the cruel act of Jael,
whose tribe were at peace, as is expressly stated, with the Canaan 
itish prince, but who yet, with words of encouragement and assur 
ances of safety, inveigled Sisera to his ruin; which, also, she com 
pleted by an act from which most persons, and especially females,
would recoil with horror. Yet for
the perpetration of this, in
itself, dreadful deed, we find it said of her, in the song of Deborah
and Barak in the next chapter" evidently uttered under inspira 
tion, "Blessed above women shall Jael
the wife of Heber the
Kenite be, blessed shall she be above women in the tent." How
plainly do these things prove that
the Jewish was not a real
church, possessing inward principles of heavenly life and grace, but
only the representative of a church, the most distinguished charac 
ters of which only by their actions represented things of a spiritual

56

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm-

vii.]

Chap. iv, 12-16.

57

nature, but might often be themselves far remote from any parti 
cipation of spiritual feelings. Admit this, (and really to a mind at all
open to conviction, it is not difficult to prove it) and every objec- '
tion which the infidel can raise against the divine origin of the
"Tc also see
Scriptures on this score, is immediately surmounted.
how greatly they err who propose the exploits of the Jewish worthies,
in their outward form, as things for the imitation of Christians:
a principle which at various periods has been adopted by fanatics,
who have perpetrated the greatest outrages under its sanction.
...And we see further, how, in the darkest night of human degeneracy,
when man was incapable of any direct perception of heavenly
things, and wholly immersed in the carnal part of his nature,
Divine Goodness, by selecting a nation which was more entirely of
this character than any other, to represent those things which they
interiorly perceiving, brought divine things,
were incapable of
as it were, into the most extreme and lowest natural form, and by
causing His Word to be written at
this time, and to treat in its
literal sense of the transactions of this people, gave to divine things
a fixity of which they otherwise would not have been susceptible
among men,-conjoined, as it were, even nature in its extreme
circumference with Himself,-and thus provided the 111CanS of ex 
tending divine aids to the most external of mankind, and for rais 
ing all from their state of degeneracy, and bringing them back to
Himself and heaven.

to the member of

the Church individually,

We have shewn in former discourses upon the oppressions and
deliverances of the Israelites recorded in this book of J ndges, that
these
with respect
occurrences represent the opening of new recesses in the human
heart ;-the discovery of
further defilements in our perverted
nature;-the temptations hereby induced j-s-and the blessings re 
sulting from the opening and communication of new heavenly
graces, new affections of love and perceptions of wisdom, in the in..
, ternal man from the Lord, opposite to the evil tendencies which are
thus brought to light, and which by these means are finally cast out
anddeprived of all influence on the mind and life for the future. Con 
sidered in this sense, we have seen that the Israelites denote the hea 
venly graces which have been inseminated into the mind from the
Lord, and the nations which oppressed them the various evil lusts and
false persuasions which belong to the natural man. But when viewed
under a more general aspect, the Israelites represent the members
of the church themselves, and the other nations, all others, usually
such as profess to be members of the church, who are interiorly evil.

In the present case it will be necessary to take a general view of
the whole transaction.

The chapter begins with saying, And the children of Israel
again did evil in the sight of the Lord when Ehud 'was dead; by
which we are to understand, that after man has attained the state
represented by the deliverance of the Israelites from the Moabites
by Ehud, and has for a time been in the perception of the heavenly
grace which Ehud represents, which is the constant effort and
determination of the mind to bring into act the truths which the
man has learned from the Word j
though this state continues
with him, stored up in his interiors, and will always be effectual in
preventing the evil represented by the Moabites from again obtain 
ing an ascendancy in his breast, yet he afterwards has discoveries
made to him of further corruptions in his nature, which require a
different heavenly grace to oppose them, This is what is meant by
the children of Israel again doing evil, and by this taking place
after Ehud was dead, On account of this transgression it is said,
that" the Lord sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan,
the captain of whose host was Sisera,
who reigned in IIazor;
who dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles: Then the children of
Israel cried unto the Lord: for he had nine hundred chariots of
iron: and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of
Israel."

In a former discourse, in which we considered what was meant
by the six nations, which it is said, were left to prove Israel-the
Canaanites, IIittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and J ebusites,
we offered some observations on the signification of the Canaanites
in particular ; when we observed that they signify evil in general,
and specifically such as arises from a belief in false doctrines grounded
in evil loves.
It appears then, that they signify evil brought into
act, in consequence of false persuasions embraced from evil inclina 
tions being confirmed in the mind; and of' this general class of
evils, Jabin, who does not appear to have been a king of all the land
of Canaan, but of a tribe of people of the Canaanitish race inhabit 
ing the northern part of the country, must signify some particular
modification. This is indeed, still but a very general explanation
of the subject, but it may suffice to give us such an idea of it as
may afford a general insight into the meaning of the history. This
also may be observed, that the evil hereby denoted must be one of
a more debased nature, and more deeply opposed to the genuine
goodof the church, than those represented by the former enslavers
of Israel-the Syrians and the Moabites; because these nations

58

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

vii.]

Chap. iv, 12-16.

59

had their proper habitations without the limits of the land of Ca 
the country
naan-whereas the Canaanites were the natives of
itself, and of course must signify evils more directly opposed to th~
than the others can. N ow evils are
genuine good of the church,
more directly opposed to the genuine good of the church, the more
they ally themselves with false persuasions that enlist the literal
truths of the Word in their service, by taking them out of their proper
connexion, turning them from their genuine meaning, and so mak 
ing them seem to support doctrines which tend to confirm man in
his natural corruptions: for evil and falsehood necessarily become
much more malignant, when they assume the pretence and appear 
ance of being the genuin,e dictates of lleligion, and wheu they are
so covered over by an outward appearance of religion as to disauisc
their deformity, and render them more capable of seducing the un 
wary, and even the well disposed. That evil of a malignant nature
h~s this tendency.' we may learn from the history of the Lord's tempt 
ation by the devil, who, when endeavouring to ensnare the infirm
huma~ity by the excitement of the love of self in its deepest ground,
when It makes the holy things of the church its instruments, which is
what is meant by the devil's placing Jesus on the pinnacle of the tem 
~Ie: sai~ to him, " If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down) for
IS written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and
It
in their arms they shall bear thee up) lest at any time thou. dash thy
foot against a stone "-apassage of the Holy Word which the tempter
thus applies to persuade the Lord's Humanity that it was allowable
for it to appropriate the evil suggested to it. And no doubt many, in
states of deep temptation, have had passages of Scripture brousht
to their minds by the tempting spirits, and so applied as to seem
to excuse or justify them in yielding to the temptation.
, Now deep persuasions of direful false sentiments, arranged into
~octrines and so confirmed by the letter of the Word as to appear
Irrefutable, are what are meant by tIle nine hundred chariots of
iron which Sisera is said to have had at his command. By the
chariots being said to be of iron) we are not to understand that
they were
.they were made altogether of that material, but
armed with projecting iron instruments for cutting down the ranks
of the enemy when driven furiously against them :-a mode of attack
,of an almost irresistible kind in a plain county, before the introduc 
tion of-fire arms. Chariots are often mentioned in the I-Ioly ,Vord,
.and by them are not, in a spiritual sense, meant mere chariots, but
'doctrinal tenets; and when, as is often the case, chariots to be
they denote doctrinal tenets so ar-
used in battle are understood,

that

'

ranged, and supported by ingenious reasonings, as to be adapted to
overthrow the sentiments of those of a different belief
Iron, also,
always denotes that kind of truth, or of the appearance of truth
which is adapted to make a strong impression on the natural
man, such as is the truth of the H oly Word in its natural or
literal sense, and the reasonings which an ingenious disputant can
produce from the light of nature and the apparent evidence of
the senses. N O\V it requires a high state of illumination,
the
proper consequence of the reception of sacred things in, an interior
ground) to be able to detect the fallacies which may be couched in
a false doctrine thus glossed over and supported; which is the
reason why it is said in the first chapter of this book, that {( Judah
drave out the inhabitants of the mountain, but could not drive out
the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron .J)
by which i.s signified the purification of the interiors of the mind
to the spiritual part of it, whilst evils with
which are nearer
their attendant falsities still remained in its deeper recesses which
,
bci
. emg
required a stronger
Influence from tl~ence for their extirpation than the state was yet
capable of affording, and because evils of this nature, being further
re~10te from the light of heaven, can defend themselves more by fal 
laCIOUS appearances, and by the application and perversion of the
literal sense of the Word to their purpose.

removed from the internal,

f:
arther

'

It is evident then that

the victory over Sisera with his nine
~lundr~d chariot~ of iron, must imply a state in the regenerate life,
In which there IS a much stronger influx of goodness and truth
from the interiors, than is obtained at the first establishment of
man in the church RS to the spiritual degree j and of course that
th~ ~eeming lapses of the Israelites represent in reality, in the purely
spiritual sense) so many further advancements. The number nine
hundred, also, represents the false persuasions and doctrinal tenets
deno~ed by the chariots, as linked in the greatest strength and
seeming coherence; for the number nine siznifies conjunction and
;ontrariwise, to wh~t is
relates in particular to what
false; and when it is multiplied by a hundred its meaning is still
further ex~lted: so that nine hundred must imply the strongest
concatenation of such false sentiments,
It seems to be on account
of this signification of the chariots of Sisera, that the tribes selected
to ?ppose them, as we learn in verse 6, were only those of N aph 
tall and Zebulun: for the tribe of Zebulun denotes the conjunction
thereto in the regenerating
of goodness and truth, and the effort

is true, or,

60

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

vii.]

Chap. iv, 12-16.

61

\vay every thing that would oppose the full operation, in freedom
and liberty, of internal ends and motives,
to last,
every principle of the internal and external man is united in the
life that true religion inspires, and we possess the land without
annoyance, are fully confirmed ina spiritual state, and prepared to
enjoy it in the heavenly Canaan for evermore.

till from first

thq hilliness of

mind, and N aphtali signifies temptation, and a willingness in the
mind to endure whatever is necessary for its final purification.
text, as taking place at Mount
The battle is described, in our
the ground rendered
Tabor, where no doubt
Sisera's formidable array of chariots of little use.
It is first said
that Barak, the Israelitish general, was gone up to Mount Tabor;
'I'abor with
and afterwards that he went down from Mount
ten thousand men after him; by which we learn that the true
way of rising superior to the false suggestions that may be pre 
sented in spiritual conflicts, is, by ascending into the interiors of
the mind, or in other words, keeping the thoughts elevated towards
heaven, when, being above the sphere to which the fallacies of the
senses can reach, their falsehood is clearly perceived; and then an
influence can thence flow into the lower region of the mind 
Barak with his army will come down from Mount 'I'ahor, and the
influence of the evils and falsities which before disturbed us shall
be driven away, never to annoy us any more.

Here,

then, we have a lesson of general

instruction, which we
may in all cases apply to our real advantage, and with which there-
It is only by ascend 
t fore we will conclude our present discourse.
ing into a more elevated region of the mind, that we can rise above
the influence of the suggestions of a false and pernicious nature,
which our spiritual foes are always ready to present, and to clothe
under euch specious appearances as make them seem even worthy
of entertainment. To avoid being overwhelmed on such occasions,
it is necessary to elevate the mind, by looking to the Lord, and
.retiring inward beyond the reach of the activities of the carnal part
of our nature. But a man cannot be always kept in this retired
state, nor is it designed that he should be. To go out, or descend
into outward things for the sake of use, since it is by our external
man that the designs of the internal are brought into effect, is as
necessary as to come in, or to engage in interior meditation and
seek for strength in the inward man by divine communion.
It is
necessary therefore to clear the lower regions of the mind from
.whatever thoughts and affections of an uncongenial nature may
therein have usurped an influence.
If then we can muster ten
thousand men of N aphtali and Zebulun,-a fulness of willingness
to undergo whatever trials are requisite for our purification, and of
desire that the union of goodness and truth may be effected in our
minds,-we may descend therewith from the mountain of internal
affection, to the plain of corresponding practice, extirpating in the

6

SERlVION VIII.

Judges v. 6, 7, 8.

a In the days of Shamgar the. son of Anath, in the days of Jael,

the
highways were unoccupied, and the traoellers uialked through by 
they ceased in
ways.
Israel, until
that I arose, a mother in
Israel.
They chose new gods: then was toar in the gates. Was
there a shield or a spear seen among forty thousand in Israel ?"

(The inhabitants of) the villages ceased,

that I, Deborah, arose,

THESE words form part of the song,as it is called, of Deborah and
Barak; in which they first describe, as in the words just read,
the
deplorable oppression under 'which the children of Israel Iabourcd,
when they were tyrannized over by their Canaanitish enemies.
·Afterwards the song proceeds to express their exultation in the
deliverance which had been afforded them from the Lord, by in 
spiring Deborah and Barak to undertake the Israelitish cause, and
· by rousing the tribes of Zebulun and N aphthali
to supply the
forces requisite to oppose the cruel foe; when, after his defeat, the
last stroke to crown the victory was given by J ael the wife of He 
ber the Kenite, who slew the fugitive chief of the Cauaanitish
army.

.The principal circumstances of the history to which this divine
song relates, and which are detailed in the preceding chapter, were
briefly considered in our last.
J abin, a Canaanitish prince, whose
forces were led by Sisera, who appears to have been a very formid-
· able commander, and who had in his army nine hundred chariots
of iron, (or chariots armed with iron weapons for breaking through
and cutting down the ranks of the opposing forces,) reduced the
Israelites to a state of subjection,
the
continued space of twenty years. The nature of the calamities
under which the Israelites laboured, may be gathered from what is
said re-specting them in the chapter of our text, which contains, as
remarked, the song of Deborah and Barak on account of their
the whole of the
victory.
nation was not so subdued by Jabin and Sisera, as that
their
authority was every where acknowledged, but as if the Canaanites
were in possession of all the open country, which they laid waste,

It would appear from thence,

in which he held them for

that

[Senn, viii.]

Sermons on Judges.

63

and kept the Israelites closely shut up in the fortified cities: for
Deborah says, in our text, "The highways were unoccupied, and
the travellers walked through by-ways : the villages ceased, they
ceased in Israel, until that I, Deborah, arose, that I arose, a mother
in Israel. They chose new gods; then was war in the gates. Was
there a shield or a spear seen among forty thousand in Israel."
Here, by its being said that the highways were unoccupied, and the
travellers walked through by-ways, is evidently meant, in the literal
sense, that the enemy overran the country, so as to make the com 
munication between distant places very difficult: the villages ceas 
ing, denotes the desolation resulting from the enemy's being master
of the open country; and by war being in the gates,
is implied,
that the Israelites were so closely shut in by the Canaanites in the
fortified towns, that they could not shew themselves beyond their
gates without danger of slaughter or captivity. That this was their
condition is confirmed by what the inspired song proceeds to say
of the consequences of the defeat of the Canaanites; on which
subject the prophetess adds, "(They that are delivered) from the
noise of archers in the places of drawing water, there shall they
rehearse the righteous acts of the Lord, (even) the righteous acts
(towards the inhabitants) of the villages in Israel: then shall the
the noise of
people of the Lord go down to the gates."
archers in the places of drawing water, refers,
to the
straitness of the seige as being so great, that they could not go to
the wells without being exposed to the missile weapons of the
cnelny: but in consequence of the divine interposition for their
deli verance, called " the righteous acts of the Lord," it is declared
that "they shall go down to the gates," or no longer be compelled
to remain shut up within the walls of the cities.

literally,

IIere,

I mention these particulars as greatly tending to illustrate the
nature of the state which the oppression of the Israelitesby Jabin
and Sisera denotes, when understood in the spiritual sense, wherein
is described a state of the mind of man in the course of his regene 
ration.
III this sense, these particulars most plainly describe a state,
in which, though there are heavenly graces of love and wisdom,
goodness and truth, implanted in the internal man from the Lord,
there is such a pouring of evil and falsity into the external man,
that the graces of the internal cannot come forth, nor even renew
their vigour by the perception and appropriation of divine truths
"The high,vays" being "unoccu...
drawn from the Holy Word.
pied," or deserted, denotes,
in the spiritual sense, the absence of
th ose clear views of truth which lead the mind on'Yard from state

64,

Sermons on Judges.

[Senn.

to state in the heavenward journey: the travellers walking through
by-ways, or, -as it is literally given in the ma~1gin, th:ough crook~d
ways, implies, that they who are desirous of instruction can obtaI~
nothing to satisfy the desire but false notions, whose tendency IS
not to lead man to heaven, instead of true; and by which, if heaven
it is only after numerous wanderings and per 
is reached at all,
plexities: the ceasing of the villages, denotes the desolation of the
external man; cities, which are the chief places in a country, de 
noting what is respectively internal, and villages, which are pla~es
that lie without, denoting what is respectively external: war being
in the gates, implies that the infernal influx rea?hed even .to ~he
rational man, or to the medium by which there IS communication
between the internal and the external. There being neither shield
nor spear seen among forty thousand in Israel, denotes that the
temptation became so appalling that there appeared no means of
safety, forty, of which forty thousand is a multipl.e, being a.num?er
which always has reference to states of temptation, and It being
generally the case that temptations are continued till despair. of
deliverance comes on-till neither shield nor spear-truths applied
either to shelter us from the power of false suggestions or to de 
tect and expose their fallacy,-seem to remain in the mind: By
its being said that there was the noise of archers in the places of
drawing water, is meant, that no perceptions of truth could be ob 
tained by studying the Word, without being distracted or perv~rted
by the influx of false doctrinal sentiments:
to draw water IS to
imbibe truths from the Holy Word; archers are they who combat
the truth; and
from doctrine-here from false doctrines against
their noise is the din and perplexity of confused reasonings pro-
ceeding from this source.

,

Thus it is easy to see, that these particulars represent the state
of the mind when under the influence of severe temptations; when
the heavenly things which have been received within the soul,
all
and which in other states have been attended with vivid percep 
tions of their presence, and with a delightful sense of their reality,
are so closely shut up in the interiors, that a doubt Inay be enter 
tained respecting their existence, whilst nothing is manifestly per 
ceived but thoughts infused from the tempting influence, accom 
panied even with scandals ~njected .against divine t~ings, and
suggestions to take refuge In despair, an~ to se~k In the de 
that
lights of the natural man with all his evil affections,
rest which, it is suggested,
it is in vain to hope for by a per 
severance in the once fair promising pursuit of heavenly ac-

for

viii.]

Chap. v. 6, 7, 8.

G5

quisitions and eternal realities. ' All
the open country-all the
external of the mind,-is occupied by the Canaanites, even to the
destruction of the villages and interception of the highvvays-to
the secminz extirpation of whatever the external had received from
a heavenly ~rigin. Sisera,-or some leading false persuasion which
would justify, and recommend the adoption, as allowed by religion,
of the evil represented by the Canaanites, is supported by nine
hundred chariots of iron,-or such a well-ordered array of false
doctrinals, 111ac1e to appear as true by reasonings from the natural
Ulan, and by seeming confirmations from the letter of the Word,
that resistance seems hopeless, and it appears to the suffering soul
as if he 111Ust submit to infernal domination, and relinquish allhope
of the heavenly mansions.

~

But which V\ray does the interior will of the party himself in 
cline? I Does he feel pleased with the suggestions and inclinations
of an evil kind which arise in his natural man? Does he hail the
Canaanites as friends and brothers, and wish to be persuaded that
it is riaht to receive them as such-to appropriate without reserve
.
the contaminations which they bring with them, and thus) as IS
expressed, to choose new gods ? No doubt there is something in
his heart which inclines this 'Yay, or he would never be infested
" Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord
with them at all.
when Ehud was dead."
The love of spiritual things in his mind
is still defiled by a selfish mixture ; and, though not willing to re 
linquish the mercies of which he has been made a partaker, he
would gladly mix a little of his own with them, and turn to the
indulgence of some of his natural corruptions, if it could be done
is that makes
without forfeiting all his higher hopes.
temptations unavoidable; anc1 they are permitted, in order to make
us see and feel the utter uncombinableness of good and evil, truth
and false persuasion, and to render us willing to give up whatever
our natural man is disposed to cling to, when we find it incompati 
ble with the enjoyment of things which have now beC0111e dearer
to us still.
If we have no such higher 'attachments, the infusion of
evil inclinations and false conceptions into our minds will occasion
no temptation, because this only arises where there is something
of an opposite kind to make resistance,
Such things would then
appear to us simply in the light of allurements, which i.t is a gre~t
mistake to consider, as is commonly done, as temptations,
It IS
an abuse of language, and a corruption of the original meaning of
the word, when we call an allurement a temptation, or speak of a
person as being tempted when he is only enticed.
The word

This it

6*

66

Sermons on Judges.

[Serrn.

I

j

..

J

J

b

I

.

temptation properly means much the same as we express by the
word trial which we alwavs use to denote something which is ac-
the case in mere allurement.
companied with pain; which is not
If then there is in the mind a principle of spiritual life from the
Lord, which consists in a love for Him and the things of His king 
dOIU there will be an internal will that turns away from the sug..
gestious of the Canaanites, and that is anguished when t le~r sug-
gestions seem to be pressed with such force as to appear difficult
to be resisted. The Canaanites therefore, in this case, n1UY come
to the eate but they will not be able to enter the city.
'I'hcir pre-
sence in the external gives to the mind real pain; because how..
eyer agreeable to the natural mall alone ~ight be. th~ pril:ciples
which they represent, to the internal affections, which 111 this ca~e
fire the ruling ones,
they are altogether contrary, whence their
presence deprives the internal man of all its sense of freedom and
delight. Thus when, as is declared, there is ,var. in the gate j  
when the suggestions and influences from the evil world come to
the very entrance into the man himself, and threaten to ta~e pos 
session of his interiors, his very life appears to be at stake; Indeed,
that principle of life by which he must live in heaven, is at stake;
and the sensations attending this, "rill be as distressing as those
which accompany the approaching loss of natural life to natural
men, when they feel
then:.
as the Psalmist says, "they cry unto the Lord III their
"Then,"

trouble and He delivers them out of their distresses." "rc have

the very agonies of death upon.

noticed' in a former discourse, that on every occasion on which a
divine interposition for the delivery of the Israelites is recorded in
that the children of
\this book, it is introduced by the remark,
Israel cried unto the Lord: and this, we have also seen,
implies
an inmost looking to the Lord, with an entire willingness to make
every surrender that may be necessary, to permit his Divine Mercy
and Truth to enter our minds with such power as to remove en 
tirely the sphere of infernal influence, ~o eject the evils in o.ur~elves
which yielded it a basis, and to establish so thoroughly within ~s
an opposite good, as to secure us against the preponderance of that
particular evil for evermore. . .

.

.

We noticed in our last, the chief CIrcumstances of the preliminary
part of this history,-as the nine hundred cl:ariots of iron,-the
reason why Naphthali and Zebulun were the tribes selected for the
conflict;
the instruction implied in its being related that Barak
with his forces first marched up to Mount Tabor, and afterwards
that he went down from Mount Tabor to attack the enemy. But

viii.]>

Chap. v, 6, 7} 8.

67

we have not yet noticed why Deborah, a prophetess, was the chief
director of the operations of the Israelites, so that Barak,
the
general of the army, received from her encouragement and in 
structions.

It is remarkable respecting this deliverance of the Israelites
from the Canaanites, that it was commenced by one woman, and
finished by another.-N0 doubt it is hereby intended to instruct
us, that to be rescued from the power of the evil propensities and
false persuasions represented by these Canaanites, a great pre 
ponderance of that principle by which the female sex is dis 
they are representative when
tinguished, and of which, therefore,
mentioned in the Holy Word,
is necessary: and this is the
principle of affection or love. Great disputes have been raised
in the world upon the' question, Whether there is any natural in 
feriority in mental power, on the part of females, as compared with
men. The male part of the species are in general too apt, it must
be allowed, to conclude that there is: but the female part have not
wanted champions, both of their own sex and of ours, to contend
for the rights of woman, and to maintain her full equality with
man. But both parties have in general greatly erred in their sen 
timents, because both have taken, as the criterion of excellence,
a standard on which it does not in reality depend.
It is remark 
able that in the present day, when faith alone is regarded in the
articles of all Protestant churches, as the prime essential of salva 
tion, even persons who do not readily admit
in
religion, are yet generally inclined to allow it in. philosophy, and
to exalt the faculty of intellect alone as the supreme excellence of
human nature. But as charity or love is a principle not less
to abide in the mind that is the seat of real
necessary than faith,
religion, so must there be a faculty in the mind peculiarly ap 
propriated to its residence;
therefore, whilst our benign Creator
has furnished us with the faculty of understanding to be the;
abode of our faith, and of all
the perceptions of truth, he has also
given us the faculty of will to be the abode of our charity, and of
all the affections of goodness. Mental superiority therefore does
not depend upon the clearness and strength of the intellectual
powers alone :-to form a perfect character, ardour and purity of
affection are at least equally necessary.

this sentiment

.Now as the human mind in general is constituted of will and
intellect, of love and intelligence,-each faculty and principle being
perfectly distinct from the other, and yet adapted to supply to the
other what it would be extremely defective, yea, what it would be!

68

Serrnons on. Judges.

[Serm.

viii.]

Chap. v. 6, 7, 8.

69

•

•

•

b

absolutely nothing, without,-so that the two are capable of, and
designed for, the most perfect union :-so in like mariner is the
.human species in general constituted of male and female human
beings;' designed for union of mind with each other, and to be,
, when so united, what the will and understanding are III one Ill..
di vidual; and thus to render each more perfect by the union, inso 
much that from two minds one lllay be formed, with its life and
all its powers greatly exalted. For in such a union, all tho life and
respective perfections of each are communicated to the other;
just
as, among angelic societies, by the wonderful communion that
takes place in heaven, all the perfections and enjoyments of each
angel are imparted to all the others, so that each becomes a centre
in which unite the perfections of the whole, This is a circum 
stance to which is owing the boundless extent of angelic felicity:
and it arises out of that mutual love in which angels are principled;
the essence of which consists in being willing to give, without any
thought of a return, all, that is its own to others j which disposi 
(so to speak.) by returning into it
tion Divine Goodness rewards,
all
is willing to bestow. A similar, and
the blessedness which it
even more intimate communication of their respective excellences
undoubtedly takes place, wherever there is a perfect union of male
and female minds:
there is also a tendency towards it impressed
on all male and female minds by creation; and therefore they are
each endowed with the faculties which are requisite to enable each
most effectually to heighten the perfections of the other.

Much as men of science in general may be disposed to think of
the exertions of the intellect, it is a certain truth, that had they not
will, with affection of some kind or other, to animate the intellect,
it would be unable to conceive a single thought: it would be in 
capable of any exertion whatever, which 'would be the same thing
as if it did not exist. The case is similar with respect to the will
. and its affections: if it had no understanding to think of what it
inclines to, and to devise means for bringing it into manifestation,
it would have no consciousness of existence, and thus would be in
a state similar to that of having no existence at all.
It is the will,
.then, that gives to the understanding all
its activity: but it is
the understanding that gives to the will its consciousness of exist 
ence. Thus the understanding,
important
faculty of the two,
is that which most readily attracts attention,
and of the presence of which, on a slight degree of reflection, a
man is most sensible: and this is the reason why so 111any have
considered the understanding as the distinguishing faculty of human

though not

the most

nature, and have estimated the superiority of one man over an 
other, and of one part of the species compared with the other, by
this as the sole criterion. The truth, however, is, that will, as well
as understanding,
to constitute a man at all: that
love or affection, as well as intelligence, go to the composition of
every human being. Neither man nor woman could exist as such,
if they did not enjoy both.

is necessary,

But here comes the discrimination.

It is certain that the two
sexes do not enjoy both these faculties and principles in exactly
the same relative proportions: if they did, their minds would be
constituted exactly alike, and not suited for that intimate union
which arises from the reciprocal communication of distinct but
harmonious excellences: and as varieties of form arise wholly from
varieties of mind, the distinction in this respect would cease also,
and the world would be peopled (were that practicable) either en 
tirely by men or entirely by women,
It is well for human happi 
ness that this is not the case, and that men and women have each
marked peculiarities to distinguish them from each other. The pre 
dominant characteristic of the male is derived from the intellect,
which in him is more active than the will: although, if he had not
will also he could not be a man: and the predominating character 
istic of the female is affection, which is the property of the 'will;
although if she had not intellect also she could not be a woman.
The aggregate arnount of capacity for what is truly noble and ex 
cellent, resulting from the union of these two faculties, may be
assumed to be in general equal in both; but the proportion of the
ingredients which go to compose that capacity will always be dif 
ferent; and thus the capacity itself will be exhibited under different
forms. There no doubt are instances of men who have a softness,
and an affectionate character in their constitution, beyond what
may be observable in some women; and there are instances of
women who have a brightness and power of intellect superior to
many men:
thus there are instances of men who approach to the
character of women, and of women who approach to the character
of men: but it may be remarked, that all have an intuitive percep 
tion that the order of the sexes requires a decided distinction: each
sex finds itself displeased when what it feels to be its province is
too palpably invaded by the other; hence the repugnance which
all men feel to the masculine character in a woman, and which all
women feel to the feminine character in a man. But how near
soever the minds of the sexes may appear, in some instances, to
approach to identity, still there can be no doubt, that, by those

70

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

viii.]

Chap. v. 6, 7, 8.

7]

that

It
instances of the kind occur in the whole of the Divine Word,
this refers to a state, in which good of a
a ppears then,
celestial order takes the lead in the mind of the regenerating sub.
ject; therefore, Deborah, a prophetess, who, as a prophetess, repre 
sents the perceptions of truth resulting from such good, which she
denotes as a female, was the first mover in the work.

In conclusion, then, let us learn from the remarkable circum 
stance, continually to aspire to the attainment of a state, in which
goodness, in its genuine character of kindness and love, shall as 
sume the superiority in our minds j-in which goodness and truth
shall be perfectly united, and the latter shall chiefly be valued
because it leads to the former, and directs 'us how to bring into
operation its benevolent behests. To this end, how obvious it is
that we must acquire a state of humility, and cease from assuming
any superiority for mere acquisitions of science or intelligence.
This is pointed at by Deborah, when,
in the preceding chapter
to Barak, who represents the intellectual principle
she says
in this state, a Notwithstanding,
the journey which thou takest
shall not be for thine honour; for the Lord shall sell Sisera into
the hand of a woman." Let us be willing that this shall be spiri 
tually' the case: let us relinquish all desire to be distinguished for
mere intellectual acquirements, and, whatever we may possess of
these, cease to pretend to honour on account of them, that we may
become subjects of the honour which cometh from God only, and
which depends upon the degree in which we receive, and exercise,
affections of charity. Thus will our external man be conjoined to
the! internal, and we shall (according to the signification of the
name of Barak) attain the blessing of the marriage which the king
made for his son, and which results from the union in the soul of
truth with goodness, or of faith with charity.

who should have discernment enough to observe the distinctions,
the male will would always be found to be something different from
the female, and the female intellect to be something different from
the male.

Now what conclusion should be drawn from the undeniable fact,
that in the male and female will and understanding such distinc 
tions always exist? Plainly this: that they originate in Infinite
Wisdom and Goodness, in order that the two parts of the human
race may be to each other mutual helps, each capable of admiring
what the other possesses, instead of proud rivals, each jealous of
being outshone by the other in the quality in which they considered
their chief merit to consist.

Let not man then assurne superiority over the womnn because
her distinguishing excellence is not the same as his j because, though
of equal value, it is less obtrusive, and less capable of contending for
pre-eminence: nor let woman assert her Just equality upon false
grounds, by assuming- that it consists in the same faculty as the
man's. In proportion as genuine truth enlightens the human mind,
it will come to be more clearly seen, that the sexes are indeed equal,
but that their. respective excellences are distinct. As this is seen
they will live together in more perfect harmony : and the weaker of
. the two,
to bodily strength, and the consequent power of
asserting their prerogatives, will be restored to their due station.
Of this they are uniformly deprived, among the various nations of
the earth, in proportion to the rcmoteness of the nation from the
light of Divine Truth, and from a reception of those heavenly

as

, principles, which constitute the Lord's church al110ng mankind.

Now it would appear that this great deliverance of the Israelites
by the instrumentality of females, took place, because it represen 
ted the arrival of that state in the regenerate life when good takes
the priority, and man no longer acts from a principle of truth less
It is true
influenced by love, as is the case in the incipient stages.
that, in its specific sense, these conflicts refer to the state which is
experienced after man has attained the spiritual state, which he
could not have attained without allowing to good the pro-eminence ;
but there can be no doubt that something of the same kind must
be experienced in all
the regenerative
process.

the three great stages of

That some very marked state-some very important attainment,
must be represented by the deliverance now under consideration,
may be evident, from its being celebrated in a divine song, sung by
three
Debor ah and Barak after their victory;

for only two or

SER~10N IX.

Judges vi. 16-22.
"But Barak pursued after the chariots and after. the host unto
Harosheth of the gentiles: and all the host of Sisera fell UjJon the
edge of the sword; and there was not a man left. Hoiobeit,
Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber
the Kenite; for there was peace between Jobin, the king of Hazar,
and the house of Heber the Keniie. And Jael went out to meet
Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me; fear
not. And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered
him with a mantle. And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee,
alittle water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle
_of· milk, and gave him drink, and covered him: Again he said
unto her, Stand in the. door of the tent, and it shall be, when any
Is there any man
man doth come and inquire of thee, and say,
here? that thou shalt say, No.
took a
nail of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and smote the
nail into his temples, and fastened it to the ground: for he was
fast asleep and weary.
So he died. And behold, as Barak pur...
sued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come,
and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest, And when he
came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in
his temples."

Then Jael, Heber's wife,

IN my work on The Plenary· Inspiration of the Scriptures,
I have
recited this passage as one of those which is used by Deists and
Infidels as incompatible with the belief, that the book ill which it
is contained can really be of Divine origin, and have any right to
.the title of the Word of God; whereas, when any just notion is
possessed of what the Word of God must necessarily be, it is rather
.oae of the passages which prove it to be such. Certainly, if we are
to believe that all the persons whose actions are recorded in the
Scriptures with expressions of approval, are to be concluded to be
holy characters, and their actions to be such as truly receive the
divine approbation, there would be no small difficulty in regarding
as divine, the book which thus records the deeds of such a heroine
as Jael, To invite the discomfited captain of the Canaanitish army

ix.]

Chap. iv, 16-22.

73

in most

into her tent, in the confidence of the peace which existed between
her tribe and king Jabin his master,-to assure him that there was
nothing to fear,-to perform for him the rites of hospitality, by
giving him refreshment and covering him with a mantle to hide
him while he slept; and then, as soon as, believing himself safe
from his pursuers and from every danger, 11e yielded to slumber,
to drive a great nail or tent-pin through his temples with a mallet:
-here was a combination of treachery and cruelty, of which as 
suredly, few women, and not many men,
in any age, have been
capable, and which,
times and countries, would be re 
warded, not with exalted praise, but with deep execration. One
would suppose that Barak himself, when invited to behold his
massacred enenlY, could hardly feel any other emotions than horror
and disgust; and that Deborah, who,
though a woman, filled the
office of judge in Israel, and instigated Barak to the expedition
against Sisera, would feel all that was feminine in her nature revolt
at such a deed, and would view its perpetration as a disgrace to her
sex. But it is certain that her feelings were not of this kind: in
her song on the occasion, which fills the whole of the following
chapter, she-speaks of the deed with the extreme of exultation, and
of its performer with the highest encomiums.
"Blesse(l above
women shall J ael the wife of Heber the Kenite be ; .blessed shall
Such are the praises bestowed
she be above women in the tent I"
upon the actress ill
the reasons are given in the
the tragedy:
honourable mention, which follows, of her act.
(( I-Ie asked water,
and she gave him milk; she brought forth butter in a lordly dish.
She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workman's
hammer j and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off
his head, when she had pierced and stricken through his temples."
Afterwards a taunting description is given of the great and blighted
expectations of his mother, agonized at the delayed return of her
murdered son: "The mother of Sisera looked out at a window,
and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in com ..
ing? why tarry the wheels of his chariots? Her wise ladies an 
she returned aI1S\Ver to herself, Have they not
swered her, yea,
to every luau a damsel or
sped? have they not divided the prey j
two j
to Sisera a prey of divers colours, a prey of divers colours of
needlework, of divers colours of needlework on both sides, meet
for the necks of them that take the spoil?" And the whole con 
cludes with the devout ejaculation, " So let all thine enemies perish)
o Lord: but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth
-forth in his might."

7

74

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

ix.]

()/tajJ. iv, 16-22.

75

I have shewn repeatedly and largely on former occasions, that
the J ewish, though called a representative church, was never truly
a real church, but was nothing more than the representative of a
church, designed to fill up the interval between the utter decline of
the ancient church, or that founded 'with Noah and his posterity,
and the arrival of the fulness of time, in which it was possible, and
requisite, that the Lord should be born into the world, to provide
the means for maintaining a true church in the world for ever 
more; and thus for opening, through all ages, the effectual ,vay of
salvation for all the human race.
This is w hat Paul means ill his
Epistle to the Galatians, when he says, that the Law, meaning the
Jewish dispensation, was a school-master to bring us to Christ;
and that it was appointed because of transgressions; where, by a
school-master, he does not mean an instructor, but a governor of
to rule and keep them in order till they
children,' whose office is
come of age:
thus the Law "vas given while the human race, after
the extinction of those f];enerations who had been members of the
true churches named after Adam and Noah, was in a state of
nonage, and incapable of being governed by any thing better, till
.they could be brought to .auch a state of rnaturi ty as again to have
a trij.eChurch established among them,
as the Primitive
Christian Church, and afterwards, and permanently, as the New
J'erusalem. The Law was thus the Pmdagogue,-the Master of
Children, as that word, being the word used in the original, literally
impliesJ-condllcting the human race onward, after the consumma 
tion of the Ancient Church, till the corning of the Lord into the
world.c--filling up the interval,
in which, otherwise, no resem 
blance, even, of a true Church, could have been preserved, to per 
form for the whole human race, considered as one great human
being, the functions which the heart and lungs discharge in the
individual man, thus preserving the race in existence by keeping
open its communication with heaven, which, if once totally cut off
for a single moment, all must perish.
'I'hus did the Law bring
..us, --;.- that
to Christ, - keeping
'open. that .comrnunication with heaven, without which, direct or
indirect, none could be sustained in life,-till the states of man 
kind, and the arrangements of Divine Order, could permit that he
should come into the world, This communication was kept open
in and through the Jewish Church, by the Divinely appointed
ordinances of their worship, quite independently of the character
of the per~ons by whom it was performed. Thereby, and by all the
the
particulars of

their history recorded in the vVord of God,

is the human race generally, -

first

the spiritual

the more external the character of

Israelites and Jews represented the spiritual
things and states
helonging 01' relating to the true spiritual Church, without being
members of such' a Church themselves. At
the same time, the
means were thus provided that
the Word of God should be
written, and should be brought into a more ultimate form, and
thus into greater fulness, by thus having real historical facts, not
merely allegorical or parabolical relations, as its basis, This was
the real design of the calling of the Israelites:
in this, and in no
other sense, were they the elect people of God: for such a pur 
pose,
the people, the better
qualified were they to fulfil their mission : they merely represen 
ted, and were driven by miracles aud punishments, 011
the one
hand, and by the allurement of the promise of worldly rewards on
the other, accurately to represent
things and states
belonging to the true spiritual Church, and thus, as a nation, to
constitute the representative of a Church, as long as,
in the
counsels of the Divine Wisdom, such an eCOn0111Y was needful. Of
course, such of them as discharged their duties with sincerity and
willing obedience, according to the form of Divine Truth with
which they were made acquainted, acquired a capacity for, and
w ere made partakers of, eternal salvation. But it is evident that
the sincerity and willing obedience of
the parties, were by no
means indispensable to their maintaining the representation for
which they were selected.
Nothing "vas required for this but the
performance of the external representative acts thernselves; and a
wicked man was quite as capable of sustaining even the most holy
represen tation as a good man j since acts which are in themselves
even of a wicked nature, and the commission of which would be
very criminal
in any but the most external) carnal-minded, un 
enlightened of the human race, may nevertheless sometimes bear
a most holy representation, and correspond to things of a most
internal and sacred nature.

Such then is the character of the dreadful action of Jael re 
corded in our text, and commented upon in the truly divine song
of Deborah, 011 the occasion ;-a song, which is one of the most
obviously divine, and divinely sublime effusions, in the whole Word
of God. Who can suppose that an ignorant woman, such as,
though she filled the office of judge in Israel, it
is evident that
every woman, and man too,
in the whole nation) in that dark
period of its history, most certainly was, could, from her own un 
assisted intellect, have expressed her feelings in such a burst of the
most elevated poetry as this song undeniably is ? How natural is

76

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

ix.]

Chap. iv, 16-22.

77

this time,

the conclusion, that she was possessed at
the time by a divine
the angel of the Lord, full of the divine sphere,
affiatus,-that.
absolutely spoke through her, taking indeed the natural words and
images as they lay in her mind, but arranging t.hem in heavenly
order, so as to become the properly corresponding expression of truly
In the Divine Mind,
divine and heavenly sentiments and subjects!
from which the words were in this manner spoken,
there as 
suredly was no reference to the person J ael, or to her deed, them 
selves, but to certain divine and spiritual principles and operations
which in her and her exploit found a properly corresponding and
truly representative expression; and which found that expression,
whatever was the state of mind of J ael
in committing the act, or
the moral quality of the act as committed by her; both which
circumstances, in regard to the representation designed, were of no
'account whatever, In any Christian, doubtless, such an act would be
judged by Christian principles, it must be
most direfully criminal j
condemned as most atrociously wicked: but in a person of so bar 
barous a tribe as, at
the race of wandering shepherds
wae to which J ael belonged, it might not be so utterly inexcusable,
as, judged by principles of pure divine truth, it 1110st certainly is.
She,-tlle individual woman,-has received her award, in the other
life, at the hands of the Omniscient Judge, according to the state of
her mind at the time, and her means of possessing any just know 
ledge of religious and moral duty; or rather, according to her in 
ternal state as formed through the whole course of her life, of
which this tremendous action is the only one 'Yhich has made her
name known to posterity j and we have no means whatever of
knowing, what her state in the other life,
is.
The blessing pronounced upon her in Deborah's song,
is by no
means intended to assure us that
she is alTIOng the blessed in
heaven. The history of her act is related, 'and the particulars of it
commented upon in Deborah's inspired poetry, purely in reference
to what is represented by it, and to the representative character
',vhich Jael bore in performing it.
And this is the same, whatever
might be the real character of herself as an individual j whether, a
penitent for all her sins, she is now a saint in heaven, or, dying in
them, she is amongst the lost in hell.
, Leaving then J ael, as a private individual, I propose, in another
to inquire into the spiritual representation, and conse..
discourse,
quent signification, of some of the particulars recorded of her. At
present, I will only advert to what is signified by her nation and
family,

in conseq uence,

\'T e are expressly informed, that she was the wife of Heber the
'I'he Kenites were a tribe of the nation of tIle Midianites:
Kenite.
and the Midianites were derived from the same stock as the Israel.
ites themselves, being descended from Midian, who was one of the
SOllS of Abraham by his second wife Keturah, All the sons of
Abraham not descended from his first wife Sarah, seem to have
formed part of that numerous people known under the general name
of Arabs, amongst whom the false prophet Mahommod was born,
und who, under the first caliphs and other Mussulman conquerors,
In the latter
have formerly made so great a figure in the world,
. portion of the history of Midian or the Midianites, as related in
Scripture, and when they acted as enemies of the Israelites, they
bear a bad signification; but in their earlier times it "vas otherwise;
and they then represent, we are informed, those who are grounded
ill the truths of simple good; which definition appears to mean,
persons of simple but well-disposed minds, who hold the truths of
the church in a manner agreeable to their simple state of mind;
which preserves them from being injured by false doctrines, when
these become generally prevalent. Thus,
it was to the land of
Midian that Moses fled when Pharaoh sought his life; and he
married a daughter of Jethro, a priest, as is related, of Midian.
It
to Midianitish merchants that Joseph was sold by his
was, also,
brethren, who, if they had not found this ,yay of disposing of him,
would have killed him.
Jethro likewise came to see Moses when
at the head of the people in the wilderness, \Vhen he acknowledged
and worshiped Jehovah, and was the author of a most important
measure, which Moses adopted, for the government of the people,
At a later period, either the same perSOll, but who is then called
Hobab, or his son of that name (for it is not certain which is
.meant), came to Moses, and was prevailed upon to stay with them,
under the promise, that whatever goodness the Lord should shew
to the Israelites, they would shew to him.. Accordingly we find
that his descendants, under the name of Kenites, always dwelt
J onadab and the Rechabites, men 
among the children of Israel.
tioned with such high commendation by Jeremiah, were of this
family. N ow we find that Heber the husband of J ael was de 
scended from this Hohab, the brother-in-law, or father-in-law, of
Moses; for we read in the chapter of our text, "Now I-Iebel' the
Kenite, which was of the children of Hobab the father-in-law of
Moses, had severed himself from the Keuites, and pitched his tent
unto the plain of Zaanaim, which is by Kedesh." From all which
it is indubitable, that
the Kenites, and especially that portion of

7*

IX.]

Chap. iv, 16-22.

79

are delivered; signified by the blow being struck by a hand which
was not of the nation of the Israelites.

These, brethren, are the observations, which it has occurred to me
to make, at present, on the extraordinary narrative of the slaying
of Sisera by J ael,
If what I have imperfectly offered be under 
stood, it will be seen that such narratives afford no argument
against the divinity of the Holy Book. in which they are recorded,
but
tend to establish its divinity by throwing light upon its true
nature, and upon the nature also of the Israelitish dispensation;
as well as upon the true character of that people, the reason why
they were taken for a time to be the representative of a Church,
and to afford means by which the 'IVord, in all fulness, might be
given from the Lord. And the slaying of Sisera by Jael, whatever
the moral character of the act as performed by her, was certainly
a most obviously providential interference for the complete deliver 
ance of the children of Israel from their cruel oppressors: and
when we see that while it literally was such,
it also represents the
Lord's providential influence, operating from his Divine Good, for
the deliverance of his people, or the protection and salvation of
the true members of his Church, we may draw no small encourage 
ment from it for ourselves. If we are truly members of his Church,
we Inay be assured that the Lord's goodness and providence will
be put forth for our protection and deliverance, whenever our states
require it; and what by our own arm we are unable to accomplish,
will be effectually accomplished by the arm of the Lord j
that is,
by the hand of his instruments, who are led, by the imperceptible
influences of his providence, to the execution of his purposes, all
which, whatever form the acts 80 brought about may take, are
purposes of Mercy.

it

78

[ScrnL

the states of

influence upon,

Sermons on Judges.
them who dwelt among the Israelites in the land of Canaan, and
'Y ho was a
were descended from the father-in-law of Moses,
Midianite according to its best signification, 111ust be represeu tative
of some principle of goodness or truth, connected with, and exer 
cising an important
the church.
J etbro 'was the author to Moses of an important rule for his
government of the people: and Hobab, whether the son of j ethro
or himself under another name, was induced by Moses to attach
himself to the Israelites, upon the consideration, urged to him by
that he would be to them in the wilderness "illstcad of
Moses,
The cJres, we know, always signify the uurlcrstauding : if
eyes."
Hobab,
is
then, was to be to the Israelites instead of eyes,
evident that he must represent some principle from thc Lord that
guides the traveller to Canaan when his own understanding fails
him, or can be of no use,-a principle of providential guidance,
which conducts him in safety, in situations and states, ill which,
otherwise, he might be totally lost. What can this be, but some 
thing of goodness and truth from the Lord, which flows into him
by an internal ,yay, above the region of his own consciousness,
and 'operates for his protection and safety, without his having
any distinct perception of what is taking place. This harmonizes
with what, we are informed, is the signification of J cthro as father 
in-law to Moses; for as Moses represents the Divine Law, and thus
the Divine Truth, his wife's father 11lUSt represent Divine Good 
that Inmost Good from which the good that is conjoined with the
Divine Truth, of which Moses is the representative, is derived,
It
was on account of this high representation of J ethro, that he was
enabled to give such salutary counsel
to 1\10S8S in relation to his
judging the people; and when it is stated on the occasion, that he
.saw how Moses proceeded in that work, and said that it was not
good, he represents also the Lord's Divine Providence, which takes
cognizance of all things, and operates to bring into order ".hatever
is 110t so. From this ascertained signification of Jethro, then, we
may be certain that something of the same gcneral nature 111USt be
signified by his descendants; anel thus that Jacl, as being OllC of
them, must be representative of a principle of Divine Good from
the Lord, and of his Di vine Providence, operating for the removal
of evil, and of evil-doers, when their state is fully made up, so as to
prevent them from any longer infesting the good; aurl this without
any consciousness of those who suffer the divine judgment as to
how it is effected, signified by Sisera's being asleep when he was
killed; or any activity for the purpose on the part of those who

·SERMON X.

Judges iv, 16-22.
rc But Barak pursued after the chariots and afie:,

(Sermon ii.)

the host unto
Haroshetli of the gentiles: and all the host of Sisera fell upon the
edge of the sword; and there was not a man left. Hotobeii,
Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of J ael the ioife of Heber
the Kenite; for there was peace bettoeenJabin, the king of Hazer,
and the house of Heber the Kenite. And Jael went out to meet
Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me ; fear
not. And wIzen he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered
lzim with a mantle. And he said unto her, Give me, I jJray thee,
a little water to drink; for I ani thirsty. And she opened a bottle
of milk, and gave him. drink, and covered. him, Again he said
unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, iohen any
man doth come and inquire of thee, and say, Is there any man
here? that thou shalt say, No.
took a
nail of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and smote the
f nail into his temples, and fastened it to the grour~d: for he was
last asleep and weary.

Then Jael, Heber's ioife,

So he died.
IN our previous discourse upon this extraordinary narrative, when
we connected it with the exulting and laudatory comments upon
itwhich follow in the song of Deborah and Barak recited in the
next chapter, we chiefly confined ourselves to the endeavour to
~hew, how such narratives, terrible and even highly criminal as are
the deeds related in them, yet by no means tend to invalidate, but
rather to establish, the divine character of the book in which they
are found, as being truly denominated the Wort! of God, But to
this end, some just knowledge must be possessed as to what the
nature of the Word of God properly is, and the true design of the
?alling of the people of Israel; which was, among other reasons,
In. order that the Word of God, such as we have it, might be written
among them.
If, as we have seen, that people never constituted a
real church, but only the representative of a church, and thus a
substitute for a real church, during a period when no internal
church could be raised up, and when the fulness of time had not
arrived for the Lord's coming into the world to found the Christian

[Serrn. x.]

Sermons on Judges.

81

is not

they might represent

church j and if they 'were made to represent the things and states
relating to the church by the forms of their worship and by the
circumstances of their history, for the instruction, when recorded
in the ,,,rord of God, of the members of the church in all future
ages, without being, themselves, interiorly grounded in the things
'which they thus represented: when, I say, these and other parti....
culars relating to the Israelites, mentioned in our last, are known
and understood;
then it will be seen that no objection against the
divinity of the Sacred Volume can be raised, from the circum 
stance,
that some of the persons whose actions are related ill it
in their individual character, holy or good
were far from being,
men, and that SOITIe of their actions were,
in themselves, of a
criminal or flagitious nature. The approbation, whether expressed
or implied,
truly bestowed upon the individual person or
deed, but upon the thing which was thus represented. The in 
dividual himself might be a good man or a bad one, and his actions,
as performed by him, might be morally right or morally wrong j
things of a most holy nature, or,
and yet
when not absolutely holy, yet states of the church, and of its in 
dividual members in the course of their
regenerative progress.
'I'hese alone are the things which appear in the spiritual sense of
the Word, for the sake of including and conveying which, mainly,
the letter is composed; and thus, though the I-Ioly Word exists,
in its spiritual sense,
in heaven, yet, existing there only in its
spiritual sense, nothing is there known about the persons and their
actions mentioned in the letter.
'I'hought about these, never enters
the minds of the angels; consequently, it is impossible for'them to
be scandalized at
finding wicked 111en or wicked deeds spoken of
with seeming approbation in the \iVord of God: and it would be
the same with its readers on earth, were they acquainted with the
spiritual sense of the \iVord, and attended chiefly to this in its
So, also, the mention of such things in the Holy Word
perusal.
would be incapable of giving offence to any, if they knew and
believed that it is for the sake of the spiritual sense alone, in such
instances, that the letter is so constructed, even thouah thev might
not be sufficiently instructed and enlightened to see what
the
spiritual sense is.

...

b

What a happiness, brethren, ought we to esteem it, that, whe 
ther our information and intelligence in regard to the spiritual
sense of the Holy Word be more or less, in the knowledge which
we all possess that it contains such a sense, we are delivered from
all occasions for entertaining doubts of its divine inspiration, and

82

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

can never be shaken in our conviction of its essentially divine
origin, by reading in it of such acts as that of J ael.. with the ap 
plause bestowed upon them! We only conclude from such cir 
cumstances, that the narrative does, and must, contnin a spiritual
sense ; and whether we are enabled to discern any part of that
spiritual sense or not, the conviction that there is OIlC, enables us
t~ app:opriate with more confiding certainty the instruction openly
given In those passages, of which there are nlany, in which genuine
truth is extant in the literal sense itself, and the valuable lessons
conveyed on the surface of the pleasing, pathetic, and aflcctin cr
narratives which in many parts occur. Happy shall wc bc if w~
appropriate all
that we can understand of the Scriptures, whether
obvious in their letter or only to be seen in their spiritual sense,
which tends to the establishment of our minds in true doctrine
and then, whether
and instructs us how to conduct our life;
enabled to see much of their spiritual sense or little, they will per 
form for us their grand office, as j ustly stated by the Apostle, of
making wise unto sal vation,

However, at present we are to try, by such elivine aids as are
mercifully afforded us,
the
spiritual sense of the divine narrative before us, and of the en 
comiums bestowed on it in the obviously Divine song of Deborah
and Barak.

if we can obtain SOU1C glilllpse of

We made some approaches towards this in our former discourse
in what "we were enabled to ascertain, tending to throw Iielit onb .
the representation sustained by,} ael, the actress in the trugcdy,
from the circumstance of her being of the family of the Kcnites,
Jethro,
and descended from Jethro the father-in-law of Moses,
we have seen, was the author to Moses of a most important mea 
sure for the judging of the people, soon after they' cnme out of
Egypt; and at a later period, himself or his son, under the name
of Hobab, was induced to remain with them by Moses, because, as
Moses said to him on the occasion, he would be to them in the
wilderness instead of eyes. This evidently im plies, something from
the Lord that guides man in his pilgrilnage, and when beset with
trials and difficulties, where his own understanding is insulllcient,
-~omething that protects him, and leads him on in safety. And
as 'the family were not Israelites, but dwelt among the Israelites
.
'
In consequence of the connexion of their ancestor with Moses, yet
always inhabiting their own tents, not residing in cities with the
Israelites, but remaining, though in the midst of them, a distinct
they, and by consequence J ael as one of them,
but friendly people;

x.]

Chap. iv, 16-22.

83

seem to represent something that enters the mind by an immediate
influx from the Lord, and operates for man's preservation and
safety, without his having much 01' perhaps any consciousness of
its operation.
It appears also to be something which operates and
is present with those who do not belong to the church as well as
with. those". who do, doing them good, so far as they are duly re 
ceptive of It, but, when they pervert and profane it, becoming the
occasion of their destruction. This, I
think, may be concluded
from its being said, that
there was peace between J abin the king
of IIazor and the house of Heher the Kenite, whose wife J ael was;
and we know that there was always peace between them and the
Israelites,
in whose land they dwelt as frienc1s,-not, like Jabin
and Sisera and their Canaanites, as foes.

Sisera, we have seen on a former occasion, as Captain of the
arnlY of J abin a Canaanitish prince, who had held Israel in bond 
age, and subjected them to cruel oppression for the space of twenty
years, represents a ruling and primary false principle grounded in
that species of evil of the external man which is always represented
by the Canaanites in Scripture.
It is a principle which leads man
to confide in his own strength, and, while guilty of. the areatest
e~ils, and seeking to subjugate and destroy, and make subservient
to his purposes, all the genuine principles of truth and goodness
c?nstituent of the Church, represented by the Israelites, to flatter
himself that the divine goodness and providence are on his side.
This is implied by Sisera's seeking refuge in the tent of. J ael the
wif~ of Heber the Kenite, and by J ael's putting on an appearance
as If she favoured him according to all his wishes.
It would ap 
pear,. too, that those who are grounded in such a false persuasion
as Siscra represents, make no scruple to employ guile to ac 
complish their wicked ends. This, indeed, is not explicitly stated in
regard to Sisera, but it is involved in the guile practised towards him
by Jael, who herein acted according to the law of retaliation which
was In force under the representative dispensations, and which"
though prohibited by the Gospel to be made the rule of the con 
duct of individuals towards others, is the eternal rule of retribution
To re 
according to which all are dealt with in the other world.
present this, J ael was led to act with guile towards Sisera, because
those characters who are grounded in such a false doctrine or
persuasion as. S~sera, as the Captain of J abin's host, represents,
from .euch evil In the heart as is represented by him as being a
Canaanite, habitually practise guile and deceit to accomplish their
designs. This also is in part represented by Sisera's being hidden

. '

.

84

Sermons on Judges.

[SernI.

by being covered with a mantle, and by his instructing J acl
to
watch against any man who should come to seck him, and to send
him away by a lie. Whatever might be Jael's individual state ill
acting as she did, her actions, without infringing on her freedom
as to that state, were certainly so overruled as to take the form
they did, to represent the operation of the law of retaliation in re-
j udgrnent
:gard to such as are represented by Sisera at
'in the other life. All that Jael did, took the form it did, expressly
to represent how the divine law of order called
for this purpose:
the law of retaliation eventually takes effect
ill regard to such as
are represented by Sisera, and that, being recorded in the -"rord of
God, it might serve for the warning of men, and the instruction all
the subj ect of angels, for ever.

their final

These observations may perhaps suffice to shew, how it was that
it is recorded that there was peace between J abin and the house of
and how J ael was
Heber
led to act with such
treachery. But we will notice a few more of the circumstances.

the Kenite,

to dip his finger

Sisera, as soon as he was covered with a mantle and thought
himself 'safe, said to Jael, "Give me I pray thee a little water to
drink.fcr I am thirsty."
This was, doubtless, a very natural re 
quest for a man to make, who had been in a great battle and had
run a great ,yay to save his life when he saw his aflny defeated:
but it no doubt is recorded as representing something ill]portnnt
and characteristic in the state of such persons as Sisera represents.
Its signification appears to be much the same as of what
is
related of the rich man in hell, 1Vhen he begged that Lazarus
might be sent
ill water to cool his tougue,
tormented in the flame: which, we are informed, expresses the de 
sire of those in hell (who are not dismissed thither till all truth has
beentaken away from them and they are left in mere falsities,)
to
obtain truth for the purpose of falsifying it, the lust of doing which
'I'he same lust
is meant by the flame in which he was tormented.
is signified by the thirst with which Sisera was tormented; and
the water which he desired to drink equally means, truth that
such as he represents might pervert and falsify. The request of
the rich man was refused, because on him judgment had been al 
ready passed: but the desire of Sisera was gratified, and in a
superior manner to what he had asked, because his judgment was
not yet performed.
Jael "opened a bottle of milk, and gave him
drink." Milk denotes truth of a higher order than water, or even
than wine j-trllth in fact of a celestial kind, or such as springs
from and expresses the sentiments of, the most angelic love. Such a

x.]

"

Chap. iv. 16-22.

85
is this: "r:rhat the Lord casts none into hell,
truth, for example,
but that his mercy and love are such as to desire to raise all to
I-Iow would such as Sisera represents, treat this glorious
heaven."
'I'hey would pervert and falsify it most awfully, by infer 
truth?
ring from it, that, live as they may, they are sure of salvation.
In
fact, whatever truths respecting the Lord's divine love such charac 
ters arc acquainted with, they are sure to pervert in their own
favour.
If, as is the case with so many, they believe wrath to
be a more powerful divine passion than love, and conclude that
while the great bulk of the human race are objects of the wrath of
God, only a very small number shall ever know his love, they are
the love to themselves. How few soever
sure to monopolize all
are they that
themselves are infalliblv of the
shall be
Such falsification of the truths relating. to th~ Lord's
number.
is signified by Sisera's drinking the bottle of milk.
divine love,
Jael's giving it to him represents that the Lord's divine love is
really universal, is free to the acceptance of all, and that the truths
it-teaches would save even such as are here denoted, would they
receive them without perversion, in a vital and practical manner:
but Sisera's drinking it represents confirmation in such perver..
sions through deliberately appropriated evil of life.

saved,

Sisera now says to J ael, "Stancl in the door of the tent j and
it shall be, when any man doth come and inquire of thee, and say,
Is there any man here ? that thou shalt say, No." This repre 
sents the desire and effort of those represented.by Sisera, and the
tendency of the false persuasion which he denotes in the sense
abstracted from persons, to pervert even the good that comes im 
mediately from the Lord, represented by J ael, to wring from it a
false pretence calculated to screen from punishment the persons in
question, and to conceal the nature of the false persuasion which
forms the ruling principle of their understanding as derived from
an evil will. A man, in the Word of God) in a good sense, signifies
the principle of intelligence, and in a bad sense, as here self-
.
To require then J ael
derived intelligence.
to say that there was
no man there, is so to pervert all good or charity, as to make it ex 
cuse the most destructive false persuasions originating in evil, by
affirming that there is nothing in such persuasions of self. derived
intelligence; which would be the same as to say that they are
harmless and good.
If those who desire this fail to accomplish it
in others, the very desire when confirmed, effects it in themselves.
Whatever spiritual injury they thus desire to do to others, is sure
to rebound upon themselves.
In this way is executed on them

,

8

86

Sermons on Judges.

[Serrn.

x.]

Chap. iv, 16-22.

87

Every truth they ever possessed is falsified,
the la'v of retaliation.
and every good adulterated;
length the measure of their
till at
state is filled up, and they are divested of every principle of good 
They are immersed entirely in a
ness ,and truth altogether.
merely natural state, represented by the deep sleep into which
Sisera fell as soon as he had given this lesson of falsehood to J ael ;
and they regard themselves as in the full security which a person's
spontaneously betaking himself to sleep also roprescuts.
In a
Jnel, Hcbers wife 
moment, they sink in total spiritual death.
the principle of good which they wished to pervert, and which they
had perverted as to themselves, " took a nail of the tent, and took
a hammerin her hand, and went softly unto hirn, and smote the
nail into his temples, and fastened it into the ground j for he was
asleep and weary. So he died." A nail is the symbol of penetrat 
ing truth in ultimates, bringing convictions that cannot be resisted:
a hammer in the hand is an emblem of great power: the temples,
.as inclosing that part of the brain which contains the intellectual
powers, or
the faculty of understanding in general, denote that
to be fastened to the ground, is to be bound to the
faculty itself:
lowest corporeal plane and things, so as to be utterly incapable of
'I'o die is to perish as to all
-any elevation of thought above them,
the influx of
spiritual
the
Divine Truth with power,
parties represented by Sisera to pervert the good represented by
J aeI, Heber's wife; into the intellectual faculty in which all truth
has been falsified, and perverted;
the effect of which is, the total
destruction of the intellectual faculty as to the capacity of seeing
any truth, the binding of it down to what is most grossly corporeal,
and the utter privation in the party, of all spiritual life for ever.
It is to be observed, that it is not the good itself which J ael re 
presents which causes this catastrophe, as might be supposed from
her being the performer of the literal action; for the good of the
Lord's mercy and providence always tends to protection and salva 
tion, and never to ruin and destruction: but it is the effort on the
part of the wicked to make even this good subservient to their evil
designs, and thus direfully to pervert it, which causes the total se 
paration from heaven, and irrevocable binding to hell, TV hich then
immediately ensues.

Thus the import of the whole is,

in consequence of

the effort of

life.

Now as Jael signifies a principle of good immediately from the
Lord, by the effort to pervert which, the destruction of the wicked
is ·effected, and by which the protection and salvation of the good
are secured, we may easily see why J ael is extolled so highly,-

why it is said, "Blessed shall Jael
the wife of Heber be, blessed
shall she be above women in the tent." This is only an emphatic
that nothing of man's salvation is from himself, but
declaration,
all of it from good immediately from the Lord; to whom, there 
fore, all the merit is due.
Something like this,

I have no doubt,
is the import, in the
spiritual sense> of this divine narrative. Nothing here appears of
any harsh or vindictive nature, or of any thing guileful and
treacherous. The Lord is willing to save all; but, as to them who
would monopolize salvation to themselves without regard to the
true divine means of obtaining it; who cherish false principles of
faith grounded in the love of evil; who falsify divine truths to 
make them appear to favour their evils, and even endeavour to
pervert the good of the Lord's love and mercy: evident it is that
such must, in the other life, be divested of all the goodness and
truth which they have falsified and perverted, and left to the living
death of their own evils and falsities. The effect of this also is, the
deliverance of the good whom they have infested with temptations,
and endeavoured to destroy. This is the law of divine order in
regard to both these classes of persons; and this is what is meant
by the awful
imprecation and solemn prayer with which the song
of Deborah and Barak, after speaking of the death of Sisera, con 
cludes: "So let all
thine enemies perish, 0 Lord: but let them
that love him be as the SUll when he goeth forth in his might."
This is not to be understood as a wish for the destruction even of
the Lord's enemies, which means the enemies of all that is good
and true; but it is a declaration of what must be the consequence
of being of the number of such enemies, and never consenting to  
relinquish the enmity. What can be the result of being an enemy
of all that is good and true-that is, of all that the Lord loves, and
is, but the being divested of every thing good and true ourselves,
and thus separated from all communion and conjunction with the
Lord, and consequently, and of necessity, from all peace and hap 
Painful as is the thought, that there are many of our
piness?
fellow -creatures of w hom this is the fate, yet reason plainly sees,
that, with all who persevere in such a course to the end of life, or
of their day of probation, as our life in this world truly is, it is
utterly in)possible that it should be otherwise. The declaration
then, that such will, and must, assuredly be the fact, is all that is
meant by the seeming imprecation, " So let all thine enemies perish,
o Lord." The most ardent desire of the Lord is, that they would
cease to be enemies, and so permit him to save them : but if they

88

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm. x.]

obstinately refuse, what can be done but to leave them to what
they; prefer? But if this) though obviously, in such case) unavoid 
able, is painful to contemplate, how delightful is the solemn prayer
or benediction which is presented as the alternative: (( Let them
that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might 1"
This is the declaration of a law of divine order in respect to such
characters j and equally so, of the pure benevolence of the Divine
Nature. To those who love Him, the Love of the Lord can, and
does, go forth in its native form, and is seen such as it is in its own
intrinsic nature.
I1e inmostly desires, that all they who love him
'I'he sun is
shall be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might,
the grandest image and emblem in nature of the Lord himself and
his divine love. With. what might, as is here expressed, does the
sun go forth? Who, or what, shall stop him in his carcer?
So
glorious and certain is the blessed course of those, who truly love
the Lord,-the sun's divine prototype. How ardent and pure
should that love of the Lord be, which can claim the sun as its ap 
propriate representation in nature 1 Yet as the sun rises gradually,
and its light appears before it is seen itself, and, after it has risen,
its full heat is not perceived till it approaches the meridian j so is
it with him who is here spoken of as loving the Lord: his progress
is gradual, although, where his love is genuine, it is sure. The
love of the Lord, we know, is the love of what the Lord is j and
none can love what he is, without desiring, and striving, to become
conformed to his will, and, as an imperfect image, assimilated to
his nature j which, can only be accomplished in proportion as man
is declared, and from
keeps his commandments, in which his will
which his nature may be inferred. Let us, brethren, strive to do
this; and then we shall assuredly realize the blessing, "Let them
that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in hiamight."
.Nothing shall prevent
them from reaching the goal; rising to a
station in his heavenly kingdom.

SERl\10N XI.

Judges vi. 1-5.
" Asui the children of Israel d'id evil in the sight of the Lord: and
the Lord delivered then» into the hand of Midiom,
seven years.
And the hand of Midiart prevailed against Israel: and because oj
tlte lJlidianites the children of Israel-made then", the dens which are
in the mountains, and caves, and stronq holds. And so it was,
when Israel had soum,
tlte Midianites came up, and the
Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came up against
them , and they encamped against
them, and destroyed tIle in 
crease of the earth, till thou come to Gaza, and left no sustenance
for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass. For they carne up with
their cattle and their tents; and they came as grassllojJpers for
multitude; for both they and their camels were without number ,
and they entered into the land to destroy it."

that

IN the discourses which we have already delivered on the re 
markable histories in this book of Judges, we have made such
general observations as seemed requisite to prepare the mind for
the profitable contemplation of their interior contents. We have
dwelt at SOITIe length UpOll the necessity of allowing such singular ·
things as are recorded, to be representative of things of a spiritual
nature, in order to see how the volume that contains them can be
in reality the Word of God; and have noticed the strong argu 
ments which thence arise in favour of the Holy Word's containing
a spiritual sense included within the letter. We also have offered
such suggestions as presented themselves to meet the thoughts
the immense
which may arise in the mind, when it learns that all
variety of things mentioned and treated of in the Holy Word, re 
late to distinct states to be experienced by the man who suffers
all the divine purposes respecting him to take effect, and who does
not stop short at any intermediate station in his spiritual course,
but submits to the whole of the process requisite to bring him to the
highest state of perfection open to a finite being.
'I'his highest
state is indeed so glorious a one,
is not commonly sup 
posed to be open to the attainment of man, but is erroneously con 
ceived to be confined to a class of pure spiritual intelligences, who

that it

8*

90

Sermons on Judges.

But

were created angels at once, and never underwent a period of trial
and probation as men on earth.
This, however, is a notion alto 
gether erroneous, founded on one of those Jewish fables to which
Paul warns his disciple Titus not to give hecd,-on 011e of those
traditions of theirs by which, as the Lord declares, they made the
law or "VVord of God of none effect: and it is a notion that is so
utterly destitute of any substantial support, and almost of the ap 
pearance of it, from the Sacred Scriptures, that one ll1ay wonder
how it ever obtained such general credence am.ong Christians.
It
is on purpose that angels may exist that man was created. The
human race is designed to be the seminary for hcaven ; since the
formation of heaven, peopled with angelic inhabitauts, is the end
Divine Love and Wisdom had in view in the creation of the
universe; and if this could have been created immediately, man
would never have been formed and placed in this world of nature
at 'all, where, even in his most perfect state, he was liable to fall
into vice and consequent misery.
Infinite Wisdom ana
Divine Omnipotence never act but in conformity to the ITIOst per 
fect order, and this requires that there should he different degrees
of life and existence;
that those which are interior should have one
that is exterior as the means of giving them permanence j and that
the formation of the human mind should take place while it dwells
in a natural frame, in order that its acq uirements may have a ter-
.ruination to give them a fixed existence. Divine Order also re 
quires that all multiplication; and in fact all positive creation,
.should take place in this ultimate sphere: and thus luau was
formed. an inhabitant of the world of nature, that he might thereby
freely choose that order of life which might fit him for
trans 
plantation to a higher and more interior residence; since, unless
those acquirements are appropriated in a state of freedom, they
cannot be possessed at all; and SUCll free appropriation is only,
If, then, this be so: if
possible in the natural state of existence.
its inhabitants from earth : if the Lord's
heaven is to derive all
angels spoken of by the Psalmist, who are called, for their life of
wisdom, spirits j His ministers, called, for their ardent love, flames
of fire ;---even the angels who excel in strength, were once men 011
earth, partakers, to the full extent, of human frailty: we 111ay cease
to think it strange that so many particulars are mentioned ill the
I-Ioly .Word which describe different steps in the great process by
which this exaltation of state is to be attained. When we reflect
on the idea we commonly entertain of angels, which we may be
sure does not rise higher, but is more probably much lower, than the

xi.]

Chap. vi. 1-5.

91

reality; and when we compare this with the weakness and infirmity
which we know, by experience as well as observation, adheres to
that such a
man in this mortal state; the wonder will be, not
variety of trials and purifications should be requisite to his passing
from the one condition to the other, but that it should ever be
possible for him to do so at all. But what a subject of superlative
joy and gratitude should it be to him, that such an exaltation
of his nature is presented before him, and that lie is invited and
empowered to attain it t How ought we to be animated by so
elevated a prospect! The apostle exhorts us to "lay aside every
weight, and the sin that doth so easily beset us, and to run with
patience the race 'vhich is set before us:
looking," he especially
says, "unto Jesus, the Author and Finisher of our faith j who for
the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the
shame, and is set <lawn at the right hand of God."
In the latter
part of these words, the Apestle speaks of the means by which the
Lord advanced to the glorification of his Humanity, till
this was
exalted to complete divine omnipotence, which is what is always
meant when mention is made in Scripture of the right hand of God.
that is,
This was effected by His fulfilling the whole of the Word,
by passing through every state described in the Word, appropriat 
ing, as to His human nature, every good and every truth which it
contains, and thus becoming as to his external man, what He was
from eternity as to His internal, the Word Itself,-which is what
is meant when it is said that ((the vVord was made flesh." As
then 1-1e repeatedly commands us in the gospel
to follow Him,
and the Apostle means the same in the words j ust quoted, where
he exhorts us to take Him for our pattern; no doubt we also, in our
measure and degree, are to fulfil the 110ly Word, passing through
the states therein described, and making the goodness and truth it
enforces, the rule and guide, and finally the spontaneous dictate
of our renewed minds. The Lord, being divine goodness and
truth themselves as to His internal man, became, by fulfilling the
Word, divine goodness and truth themselves as to His external
man, thus essentially God as to both: and of course the tempta 
tions which He underwent in the process, must have been such as
finite minds can have no idea of. Man is only a form recipient of good 
ness and truth from the Lord as to his internal man, and he has only
to become such a form as to his external man also: of course his trials
will be commensurate with his limited capacities j and he never need
fear the failure of the divine promise-as thy day is, so shall thy
In reality, the Lord does and sustains all for man:
strength be.

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

he has only to look steadily to Him, never resting under any in 
tercepting cloud till it is removed-and to attend faithfully to the
Lord's requirements, to become one of those sons of God, to "bring
whom to glory," the same Apostle declares, "the Captain of their
salvation was made perfect through sufferings."

Our present

text describes an affliction of the Israelites, from
an enemy' that one would hardly expect to have again beC0111e so
powerful, after a great overthrow that they had experienced in the
time of Moses. When Balak the ICing of Moab had failed to ar 
rest the march of the Israelites by the enchantments of Balaam,
whom he had hired for the purpose, but whose desire to curse was
turned' into a blessing by the controuling p01ver of the Lord, the
Moabites endeavoured to effect their object by subtlety, and to en 
snare the children of Israel into criminal practices and idolatrous
worship, in which they so far succeeded as to occasion a plague
in the camp, attended with the destruction of twenty-four thousand
men. On this occasion they were assisted by the Midianitcs : for
which reason Moses was commanded to send an expedition of
tewlve thousand men against
the latter. This small arlny of
Israelites seems to have come upon the Midianites by surprise, for,
without any loss, they destroyed five of their princes, with a great
multitude of people, and took an immense booty,-so great indeed,
that one would conclude the whole nation must have been cut off,
as the terms of the account which is given in the 31 st of N umbers,
would seem to imply. However, we find they had so recovered
themselves, in the two hundred years which intervened between
the date of that transaction and of that recorded in the text, as to
have become more formidable than ever, and to be able to do, by
open force, what they then only attempted by craft and fair ap 
pearances. And no doubt
there
being a difference in degree, between the state represented by the
Israelites afterthey obtained possession of the promised land, and that
which they denoted before, the enemies whom they had to encounter,
though frequently the same nations as before, and thus representing
the same evil
lusts and false persuasions as previously, express the
manifestation of them in a deeper ground, which of course implies
a more full development of their pernicious tendency.

the reason of this is, because,

Owing to the human mind at the present day being- so little ex 
ercised in noting the differences of the various species of affections,
whether' good or evil, and of perceptions and notions, whether true
or false, it is certainly rather difficult to obtain so distinct an idea
'of the things denoted by the different nations with whom the

xL]

Chap. vi. 1-5.

93

Israelites had to contend, as to prevent our efforts at explaining
them from appearing like reiterations of the same thing. No
doubt
the time will COIne, as the church advances to maturity,
when the perceptions of her members, on these and all other sub 
jects, will be incomparably clearer: they who shall then attempt to
explain such matters will be enabled to set them in a much clearer
light than can be done 'at present; and they will also be assisted
by a much more ready comprehension in their auditors. How 
ever) there is enough recorded in Scripture respecting the Midian 
ites,-uncl even in our present text,-to help us) I trust, to form a
satisfactory notion of what is represented by them,
'1'11e circumstance we have already noticed,

respecting their
former alliance with the Moabites, will alone afford us considerable
assistance. The Moabites we have treated of onunore than one
occasion, and their signification is so extremely distinct from that
of any other of the nations with whom the Israelites had to deal,
that I trust we have been enabled to form a tolerably clear idea of
it.
vVe have seen that they denote such as are in a certain kind
of good, consisting merely in natural amiableness of temper, unin 
fluenced by spiritual considerations ;-~hus a good that originates
in hereditary constitution,
is consequently of the natural man
alone, and is not a birth from the spiritual man, nor such as owns
any connexion with the truths of the church. Thus they who are
in such good as this, though it will appear very pleasing for a time,
yet if they do not receive genuine good within it by regulating all
their affections by the divine commandments, and thus watching
against evils in themselves and rejecting them, are easily seduced
into evil, when it addresses their inclinations in an alluring form.
N ow the Midianites represent those who in some respects are of a
similar character, denoting, when mentioned in a, good sense, as
sometimes occurs, persons of simple but well-disposed minds, who
hold the truths of the church in a manner agreeable to their simple
state of mind, which prevents them, when false doctrines are pre 
valent, from being injured by them. Thus, as noticed in a previous
discourse, it was to the land of Midian that Moses fled when Pharaoh
sought his life: and so it was to Midianitish merchants that Joseph
was sold by his brethren, who thus gave vent to their hostility which
otherwise would not have been satisfied without taking his life: and
thus the Midianites were the means of the preservation of Joseph as
well as of Moses: by both which circumstances is represented the pre 
servation of that in which the church essentially consists, at the time
when, in the body of its professed members) the church is in desola-

94

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xi.]

Chap. vi. 1-5.

95

tion, But when the Midianites appear in enmity to the Israelites,
they represent a principle of the same general character as before,
but turned in an opposite direction j-thus they denote such as are
of simple superficial dispositions, but who, instead of holding the
truth in a simple manner, have no concern about divino truth at
all; in which case, like the Moabites, they are easily seduced into
indulgences, when they readily imbibe false persuasions to
evil
In this case the Midianites represent such persons
justify them.
as are peculiarly devoted to pleasurable indulgences, and may be
considered as representing, abstractedly, external enjoyment, with
all its frivolities of idle thoughts and trifling notions magnified into
things of supreme importance.
;'[ We took occasion to observe, when treating of the Moabites,
that there is reason to conclude that there are great numbers of
those who are spiritually Moabites in the professing church, and in
the present day: and most assuredly the same ob-
the .world, at
'servation may be made in respect
to the Midianites also. No
doubt there are many in the professing church at this day who are
Midianites in a good sense.-c-pereons of a plain, well-disposed
character, whose simplicity of mind prevents them from imbibing,
the false notions which have sup 
so as to be injured by them,
planted the genuine truth of the Word in the creeds of professed
Christians, and among whom, in consequence, the spiritual Moses
and Joseph,-the Divine Law or Truth and the spiritual principle
of the church, so far find an asylum as to be preserved alive. But
if'.there are spiritual Midianites,
in their best character, in the
professing church of this day, most assuredly there are spiritual
Midianites in abundance in their bad signification also. Was
there ever a time in which frivolity in every form, a constant im 
mersion in superficial pursuits, and the eager pursuit of paltry
enjoyments, formed so leading a feature in the character of the
age? What multitudes spend a great portion of their time in
what is called,
light reading, and
consume nearly the whole of the remainder in a round of amuse 
So that they have a constant supply of tales of fiction to
ments!
read, it matters not, with many, what
is their moral tendency.
Indeed,when the mind is much given up to this kind of reading,
it avails little though valuable lessons be inculcated in the book:
whatever· they professedly inculcate, their effect upon such readers
is invariably mischievous. Such persons live constantly surrounded
with a sphere of phantasies. The perceptions of their own minds
are as injuriously affected by this species of constantly strained

to gloss over the vanity of it,

though coarsely,

excitement, as they would be by the habit of taking intoxicating
it was most truly said, by a man
liquors: and,
not much under the influence of religious principle, that the cir 
culating library, whence constant supplies of such mental beverage
are procured, is a moral dram-shop. These then, we may say, are
the Midianites' studies: and the tendency of them certainly is, to
give their votaries a distaste for the sober, common-place, un 
romantic duties of life, and to disqualify them, in a great degree,
fur filling with propriety their stations in it.
So again, when one
observes how many there are who seem absolutely to live upon
public amusements, how can one forbear to recognize the character
of the Midianitc ? Into how many companies may you enter, in
which nothing is talked of but new plays, new actors or old ones
in new characters, and the various other species of fashionable en 
tertaiumeut l What multitudes are there whose supreme enjoy 
ment is in playing at cards,-who do not know what to do with
themselves till the card-tables are set out, who engage in the game
as if it were the very business of their lives, and who find in it the
whole of their delight,-if delight that can be called which fre 
quently manifests itself, (because fortune cannot always be pro 
in ill-humour and vexation, either openly exhibited or ill
pitious)
concealed. Are there any among us,
in whom the Midianitish
character, under these or any other of its manifestations, displays
its influence? The doctrines of the New Church,
is true, do
not altogether prohibit any recreation which is not criminal in
itself and does not go beyond the bounds of order and propriety:
but most strictly do they prohibit all whenever they would rise out
of their proper sphere, and demand entertainment as objects of
anxious pursuit: and, most assuredly, the less everyone accustoms
himself to think of or wish for them, the better. Whenever amuse 
ments begin to be thought of with solicitude, and especially when;
by thinking of or pursuing them our proper duties begin to be felt
the Midianite is beginning to assume the upper hand
as irksome,
with us, and, unless promptly repressed, will either subdue us en 
tirely, or make our return to a state of true order and real happi 
ness a matter of difficulty, only to be accomplished by the path of
repentance, attended with much bitterness and pain. Though the
doctrines of the New Church do not proscribe amusements so far
as they tend to preserve both mind and body in a more healthful
state, and both better disposed and better able to discharge with
effect
they describe the state of those who

their proper duties,

it

96

Sermons on Judges.

[Scrm.

xi.]

Chap. vi. 1-5.

97

make pleasure their business, as deplorable, vile, and wretched
indeed. But to proceed to the particulars of our text.

indeed is

The consequence of such unworthy objects attaining any preval 
ence in the mind, is strongly described when it is said, that because
of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the dens which
are in the mountains, and caves, and strongholds.
'I'he Israelites
represent the principles that constitute the church in the human
mind; and these are said to dwell in dens and caves when they are
in a state of obscurity-the dens of the mountains denoting a state
the
of obscurity as to good, and the caves, or, as is somctirnes said,
caves of the fields, denoting a state of obscurity with respect
to
the obscurity in which a man is
truth: And great
plunged, as to the things that properly constitute the church,
when external pursuits an,} their gross delights occupy any con 
siderable share of his attention! But it is necessary here to bear
in mind the difference between being in a state of temptation in
consequence of the infusion of such things from an infernal source,
and the being in the things themselves: in the former case we
belong to those who, notwithstanding their lapses and infirmities,
are still Israelites; but in the latter we are really Midianites our 
selves. Weare instructed in the doctrines of the New Church on
the subject of temptations, that in them evil and false sentiments
are indeed present in the mind, being infused from the tempting
powers in such abundance as to make it appear as if they could
not be resisted: deluges of false suggestions of different kinds,
sometimes tending to the direct denial of
important
truths, and sometimes consisting merely of a continual turning of
the thoughts to idle and unprofitable things, are unceasingly poured
into the mind, while tendencies to evil at the same time solicit the
will, accompanied by a feeling of the delight which they who are
i~ such evil find in its indulgence:
these however are at the same
time felt as most hateful and undelightful to the real will of the
'mind, this being so renewed as to llave delights of a very different
nature. Of course, where there is inwardly an opposite will, what
is thus suggested by the infernal influence, is not adopted or re 
duced into practice: and it is the determined inward resistance to
this, in which the Lord supports the mind, that constitutes it a
Such then, when applied to the case of individual
temptation.
regeneration,
is denoted by the oppression which the
is what
children of Israel suffered from the Midianites, and indeed by all
the other afflictions recorded of them.

the most

The Midianites, it is to be observed, were a migratory people,
having no fixed habitations, and whose riches consisted in their
that the
cattle, as is evident from the description of the spoil
Israelites took from them in the conflict before noticed, in the time
of Moses : they were in fact a tribe of the people who are now
called wandering Arabs, who have retained their manners to the
present day. Their mode of ill treating the Israelites, referred to
in our text, does not appear to have consisted 111. holding them re 
gularly in subjection, d welling in their country as its constant
masters, but in making occasional inroads, seizing their cattle, and
applying the produce of the lanel as pasture for their own herds.
For it is said in the 3rd, 4th, and 5th verses, that (( when Israel
had sown, the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, anel
the
children of the cast, and they encamped against t.hem, ana de 
strayed the increase of the earth, and left no sustenance for Israel,
neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass: for they came up with their cattle,
and their tents, and they came as grasshoppers for multitude; for
both they and their camels were without number : and they en 
tered the land to destroy it."
So that it appears, that after they
had seized every thing, and fed off the growing crops with their
cattle, till the land could support them no longer, they retreated,
according to their usual migratory habits,
to their own country;
that then the Israelites, hoping that they would not return, again
sowed the fields and endeavoured to repair the damage, in the ex 
pectation, no doubt, that their enemies would leave them some re 
spite to enjoy the fruit of their labour; hut that the Midianites
and their companions returned again the next season, and made
the same devastation as before.

In these particulars we have a description of the desolation to
which all things of the church are reduced in the external man, so
long as a regard to external delights is so far indulged, or is per 
mitted to intrude itself, as to occupy in that part of our constitu 
tion a pre-eminent station. The seed sown by the Israelites is the
knowledge and understanding of divine truth, and of the good to
which it leads,
inseminated in our natural part by an influx from
the spiritual) in consequence of which it is that things of a spiritual
that the Holy W orel and the doc 
nature engage our attention,
trines of the church thence derived, are studied, and, by virtue of
an influx from the internal, and primarily from the Lord) are un 
derstood, and in some measure appropriated: but in this state the
prospect of fruit is cut off by the rising up from beneath of evil
delights and false persuasions, which destroy what is thus insemin-

9

xi.]

Chap. vi. 1-5.

99

but only their restriction within the limits of order. But let us be
ever careful to attend to what order requires, \Vhich is, that spiritual
things should be exalted to the highest place in our minds, and be
made the governing ends and motives, and that natural objects,
pursuits, and delights should be kept in strict subordination below
'I'hen will not the Israelites be shut up in dens and caves,
them.
whilst all that they sow is made the prey of the Midianites, hut
they .shall eat
in peace of the increase of the earth :-the acquisi 
tions of the natural Ulan, being from a heavenly origin and stand 
ing in heavenly order, will be subservient to and support the spiri 
tual man in life and activity, and heavenly rest will be his portion.

98

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

ated, and even apply it in favour of themselves. How similar is
this history to the Lord's parable of the Sower, in which it is said
that, sometimes because the wicked one catcheth away that which
was sown in the heart, sometimes because tribulation or persecu 
tion occasion offence, and sometimes because the care of this world
and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word,
it becometh un-
'fruitful!

The Midianites are said to be as grasshoppers, or, as the word
ought to be translated, as locusts, for multitude ; to which they are
compared, because the state represented is similar to that of Egypt,
when it was visited by the plague of locusts. Locusts are explained
in the writings of the New Church to represent falsities in the etc 
tremes, by which phrase are meant false persuasions and thoughts
of the lowest and most superficial description, such as arise from
the fallacies of the senses, when separated from all interior light,
sothat their fallacy remains undetected. A plague of them, or an
inundation such as is here spoken of, consists in the thoughts being
kept by infernal
influence perpetually occupied with frivolous
things, which are then seen only in the lowest sensual light, and,
if the mind has better things within, are felt to be extremely an 
noying, though they are poured in so fast that it finds it difficult to
extricate itself from them. And if the Midianites, as has been ob 
served, represent an exclusive 'regard to external things, we see
with what propriety the state of the thoughts which such an attach 
ment brings with it, is compared to an inundation of locusts.

The mode in which deliverance from this state is COn1111Cnced, is
described in the sequel of this chapter by the calling of Gideon,
which we propose to take as the subject of our next discourse.
What we have now been considering may teach us the danger of
to natural
suffering a regard to external things-an attachment
pleasures,
There is
to obtain the preponderance in our minds.
nothing in true religion of a gloomy nature, or that tends in any
degree to restrict the enjoyments suitable to a rational being: on
the contrary, it tends greatly to increase and exalt all rational. en 
joyments; as affections of a spiritual nature-affections of heavenly
good and perceptions of divine truth, are attended with delights of
their own of a far more exquisite kind than the slave of merely
natural and corporeal affections and the gross sentiments which
accompany them, can have an idea of; and the rational and na 
tural pleasures which they permit, are, by their connexion with
them,
improved and made more truly pleasing: for true religion
does not require the total renunciation even of natural pleasures,

SERMON XII.

Judges vi. 11-24.
" And there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak uihicli
(was) in Ophrah, that (pertained) unto Joasli the Alnezriie. And
his son Gideon threshed wheat by the 'wine lJress,
to hide it [rom
the Midianites. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him,
thou 1nighty mati of
and said unto him, The Lord is with thee,
() tny lord, if the Lord be
valour. And Gideon said unto him,
with us, why then is all this befallen us ? and tohcrc (be) all his
miracles which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not
the Lord
bring us up from Egypt? But now the Lord hath forsaken us,
. and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites. And the Lord
'looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy 1night, and thou shalt
save Israel from the hand of the Midianites . have not I sent
thee? And he said unto Him, Oh,
'lny Lord, uilcereuntli shall I
save Israel? behold, 'lny falnily is poor in Manasseli, and 1 am the
least in my father's house. And the Lord said unto liun, Surely I
will he with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man:
And he said unto Him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,
then shew me a sign that thou talkest uiith. me : deport not hence,
I pray thee, until I C01ne unto thee, and bring [ortli
'Iny present,
and set it before thee. And He said, I will tarry till tlio« come
again. And Gideon went in, and made ready a kid, and unleavened
cakes of an ephah. offlour:
the flesh he put in a basket, and he put
the broth in a pot, and brought it out unto Him under the oak,
-and presented u, And the angel of God said unto him, Take the
flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this 1"OC!c, and
pour out the broth. And he did so.
Then the angel of the Lord
put forth the end of the staff that toas in His luuui, and touched
the flesh and the unleavened cakes: and there arose U1J fire out of
the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes.
Then
the angel of the Lord departed out of his
sight. And u)hen
Gideon perceived that He was an angel of the Lord, Gideon said,
Alas, 0 Lord God! for because I have seen an angel of the Lord
face to face. And the Lord said unto him, Peace be unto thee:
Then Gideon built an altar there
fear not: thou shalt not die.

Serm. xii.]

Chap. vi. 11-24.

101

unto ilie Lord, and called it Jehovah-shalom: unto this day it is in
Ophral: of the Abiezrites,"

IN our last discourse we commenced the subject of the afflictions
which the Israelites suffered in consequence of the inroads and
tyranny of the Midianites : which we have seen describe, when
understood in the spiritual sense and with reference to the regene 
life eternal, a state of
ration of the individual candidate for
temptation, the result of an excitement of the evil propensities of
the natural mau,-a state in which external things and merely
natural enjoyments are presented as objects of pre-eminent im 
portance, and the mind is deluged, by the agency of the tempting
powers, with floods of trifling thoughts,
tending to extinguish all
regard to matters of a serious nature.
In the passage we have
now read, we are presented with an account of the manner in
which the internal man is invigorated to' extricate itself from this
thraldom, by the opening therein of a new principle of spiritual
life, and the filling of it with a divine power from the Lord, which,
after certain preparatory stages, and the extension of
the con 
fidence in divine aid thus originating till it fills the whole mind,
finally destroys the opposing influence, and restores the wl;~le man
to a state of peace,
accompanied with that sense of delight
and enjoyment in heavenly things of which he appeared to be
deprived.

The passage we have read is of considerable length, but we
have read the whole on account of the conversation which it
details between the angel and Gideon, which opens a subject of
great importance to our reflection:
though we only propose to
offer a particular explanation of the first of the verses we have
selected.

It appears then in general,

that the discourse here recorded
between the angel of the Lord and Gideon, describes the percepo
tions which are experienced in the interiors of the mind prepara 
tory to the termination of the temptation represented by the
invasions of the Midianites: and the whole of it shews to us the
manner in which the immense variety of perceptions and thoughts
that we all of us experience, arises within us. Every person has at
various times in his life, been in situations in which he has ex 
perienced a great number of conflicting thoughts passing through
his mind: and this, whatever may be the subject that occasions
It is impossible to he much interested about
him solicitude.
any event whatever, attended with any suspense and anxiety,
without experiencing something of this nature. One thought will

g*

102

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xii.]

Chap. vi. 11-24.

103

arise that draws the mind one \vay, and another will present itself
that s\vays it another. We cannot indeed weigh any thing rna 
turely with a view to a prudent determination, but an operation of
this
sort must be felt. Now what can this be, but either the
operation of distinct principles in the mind itself, or the action of
distinct influences from without, or extraneously to what properly
'I'hese are poured into him from
belongs to the man himself?
those spiritual associates of different classes with whom he is at all
times surrounded, but some of whom are in a manner nearer to him
at some times than at others. Their influence then hecomos much
stronger, and the thoughts which they suggest are much more
vivid and attended with more lively feelings.
'I'he luau, however,
usually regards them as the spontaneous births of his own mind,
and seldom suspects that any beings but himself have any share in
producing them. Nevertheless the thoughts of different tendencies
which thus at
times agitate the mind, arc so distinct from each
other, and so strongly marked, that they appear to the mun him 
self like conversations within him ; although he usually believes
both the distinct parties by which the thoughts are infused to be
wholly himself. Hence it has even become custornary to speak of
particular thoughts, or trains of thought, that at times pass through
the mind, as a species of discourse with oneself: and thus, when
mentioning them to others, we often say, "I said to myself i "
and
train of thought has
when an opposite, or at
succeeded, we describe this also by saying, "But then I
said to
myself again." The truth is, that all this arises from there being
in reality innumerable different princi ples in our minds ; and also,
from our being acted upon every moment by spiritual associates of
different classes. For though there are innumerable distinct things
in our own minds, yet as man in himself is not life, but merely a
form receptive of life, nothing in his spiritual organization would
ever be capable of the least consciousness of existence but for the
continual action of life upon it flowing ill from without-s-that is, in
all cases, primarily from the Lord, the only Source of life, but medi 
ately through heaven or through hell, by the agency of angels and
'I'he life thus presented from different mediate
spirits from thence.
sources, is actually received by the man, and by every the minutest
principle that has a place within him, from the one medium or
from the other, according to its respective affinity of nature.
'I'he
man however always has a po"\ver to turn either towards the oue or
the other, and thus to give the preponderance to whichever side he
pleases, by virtue of a constant influx of freedom into the very

least quite distinct

inmost of his constitution, which he derives neither through heaven
Seeing
nor through hell, but immediately from the Lord alone.
then that different currents of thought are in reality the action
of different principles in the human mind, called into exercise by
influences either from the heavenly or the infernal world; and
that this is the case whether the alternations are of a nature op 
posite to each other, or they are mutually congenial, being only
the distinct particulars of the same general principle ;-fo1" this
reason, when they are described in the language of correspondence,
or of the mutual relation between natural things and spiritual, in
which the ,V"ord is written, they are exhibited as real conversations
between real persons. One of the great excellences of this spi 
ritual language is, that it is capable of distinguishing things the
most minute, such as,
ill any other style of writing, could not be
distinctly presented to the apprehension. This shews us the true
manner in which all
the conversations between various persons
mentioned in the I-Ioly ,V-ord, are to be understood. However
real, considered as to their natural existence, the persons were who
are mentioned ill the Scriptures, the conversations recorded between
them are meant to represent the various trains of perceptions and
thoughts that take place, on the occasions spiritually denoted, in the
minds of individuals of the human race, as they are introduced by
the .operation of distinct influences, either from the heavenly or the
infernal world, on distinct principles in the human constitution.

instance:

'Ve know that man has

Here then it may be observed, by the \vay, that when this law of
the composition of the Sacred Scriptures is understood, we may be
enabled to reconcile difficulties in the literal sense on important
doctrinal points, which otherwise could not be easily explained.
For
innumerable distinct
things in his constitution: We see that this is the case in the for 
mation of our bodies; and all who have studied-indeed all who
have paid the slightest attention to-the operations of their nobler
part, the mind, are aware that this is still more compounded of
parts innumerable. Yet we know, that as all the outward members
make but one body, so all
the inward feelings and perceptions
make but one mind ;-yea, even the mind and body together, dis 
tinct as they are in their natures, make but one man. But on
account of the perfect distinctness of the several parts of the mind
and the man, the suggestions arising from the activity of each are
represented, we see, in the Holy Word, by conversations between
absolutely separate persons. Now this is the reason why the per 
ceptions in the mind of the Lord Jesus Christ, while engaged in

104

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

.the work of glorifYIng His Humanity, are .:represented as conversa..
tions, carried on, on the one side, by prayer, and on the other by
voices from heaven, and by commands declared by the Lord to have
been received by Him from the Father; as when we find him saying,
"Father, glorify thy name:" and, it is added, "r.I.'here came a
voice from heaven; saying, I both have glorified it, and will glorify
it again." At other times we read of the Lord's addressing the
Father, without any intimation being given of an answer received;
and at others he speaks of the commands, or rather commissions,
he has received from the Father, without any notice of an address
on his part. These communications between the Lord and the
Father, being- so distinctly related, are supposed to im ply that they
are distinct persons. But the case is here exactly the same, as in
the Scripture mode of representing the communication with each
other of the distinct principles in the mind of one individual man.
As the distinct principles that are in man,
though represented by
distinct persons in the Word, do not make him more persons than
one, so neither do the distinct principles that are in the Lord, the
most general of which are the Essential Divinity and the Divine
Humanity, the one denominated the Father and the other the SOD,
make Him more persons than one.
'I'he appearance of their being
so, arises from the style of correspondence and representation in
which the Holy Word is written; according to which, we have
seen, distinct principles are spoken of as distinct persons. Let us
·then (to vary the words of the Athanasian Creed) be careful, in our
ideas of the meaning of the terms Father and Son, as applied to
the Lord, neither to confound the principles nor to divide the
person.

Here we have an important doctrinal application of

the im-
portant fact, that the distinct principles in the human mind are
represented in the Word by distinct persons: but from another
branch of the same truth we may draw an important application of
a practical nature. For if it be true that so many various things
have a place in our spiritual organization; and if we are connected
by them both with the heavenly and infernal kingdoms,---and
the
indeed with all
thoughts that ever pass through our minds proceed from the action
upon us of spiritual associates belonging to some society of one or
other of those kingdoms:
then, if we were disposed faithfully and
impartially to note our thoughts, reflecting upon those 'which we
most readily recur to and dwell upon with most delight, it would
not be difficult to ascertain what sort of spiritual society we prefer

the societies of each ;-and if, further, all

.

1 t-t l"l4~

cX..~~ I~~ ~ :

fl\lt..t 0··/

Chap. vi. 11-24.

f) r;t r l05'

y

\"~

If it

-whether emissaries from the heavenly or the infernal world have
influence over us. There may indeed be thoughts which
most
come ill their origin from the heavenly kingdom, that do not imme 
diately refer to heavenly things: and there may be some that seem
to have this reference which in reality come from the infernal
kingdom, but both may be known by observing the affection with
which they are united.
is so certain that both worlds are so
near to us, how careful should we be to reject every thought whose
tendency would be to ally us with the evil one" and to cherish
those which would connect us with the heavenly one.
It is true
thoughts from hell may. be injected before we are aware,
that
and in states of
temptation n1ay be presented so constantly"
as we have seen in our last discourse, as to threaten to take
entire possession of the mind: but
this need, not fill us with
to our state, provided we \are
too glOOl1lY apprehensions as
to make them our own by giving them willing enter 
careful not
(( Not that which goeth into the mouth," saith the
tainment.
infallible Teacher, "defileth a man, but that which cometh out of
the mouth, this defileth the man: ", where, by ((that w hich goeth
into the mouth" are meant evil
thoughts injected by infernal
agency, but not appropriated by the affection and so made our
own; and by that which cometh out of the mouth are meant evil
thoughts proceeding from the heart or will. On the whole,
if we
were duly sensible that every thought that enters our minds comes
either from heaven or from hell, we perhaps should not think it of
so little consequence as too many are apt to do, to be on our guard
how they are engaged. By continued practice, we form our minds
to the reception either of good thoughts or of bad: we bind our 
selves either to the kingdom of light or to the kingdom of darkness:
and whichsoever of these kingdoms we have thought from, and
with, while here, we shall think from, and in, in and to eternity.

With these general remarks on the conversations recorded in
Scripture, we will proceed to some observations on the appear..
ance of the angel of the Lord to Gideon, as recorded in the first
verse of our text.

It is mentioned in the verses preceding, that "Israel cried unto
the Lord," (the meaning .of which phrase we have spoken of on
former occasions,) and that then the Lord sent to them a prophet
who, after reminding them of the Lord's operations in their behalf
in delivering them from Egypt, states the cause of their present
calamity to be, their not having obeyed the command which pro 
hibited them to worship the gods of the Amorites. By this state-

106

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xii.]

Chap. vi. 11-2L~.

107

ment is spiritually described, a perception comrn unicatcd from the
(signified by a pro 
Lord through <the doctrine of his Word,
phet.) shewing the cause of all
temptation and infestation from
evils to reside in our own selfhood, and the looking thereto instead
of' to the Lord: since, although the evil and false suggestions
which may arise in temptations, n1ay not be actually appropriated
by us, it is nevertheless certain, that if there were not something
in our selfhood which inclined that ,vay, there would be no ground
in us on which the infernal influence could operate.
Then, it is
said, "there came au angel of the Lord, and sat under au oak,
which was in Ophrah, that pertained unto Joash the Abiczrite:
and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress,
to hide it
from the Midianites." This denotes the manifestation of the Lord
as to his Divine Proceeding Influence, or Divine Truth in 'which is
the Divine Good, in the Word, and in the things that are from the
Word stored up in the human mind; and the development of
a principle of genuine truth from go~d in the interiors of the
mind, to and in which this manifestation could take place. An
oak. is a tree frequently mentioned in the Scriptures; and as all
trees in general signify either. perceptions or knowledges of truth,
according to the subject respecting which they are mentioned, so
do particular trees signify some particular class of such perceptions
or knowledge. An oak, for its great magnitude, its great hurdness,
and the tangled appearance of its crooked branches, denotes truth
in its lowest and most external mode of existence, in which it is a
general covering or clothing to things of an interior nature, (which
perhaps is represented by the magnitude and cap-like form of the
their support, which is ex-
oakj)-is to them a strong basis for
. pressed by its hardness ;-and in which truth appears under a
mazy and confused aspect, the fallacies of the senses which here
mingle with it requiring continual unravelling; which is what
is
represented by its tangled appearance and the crookedness of its
branches.
Thus the oak is an apt emblem of the Word in the ob 
scurer parts of its letter, a great portion of which consists of truth
of this kind: and the angel of the Lord sitting under the oak, de 
notes the Lord Himself as to His Divine Truth in the inmost of
the Word.
Joash represents a principle of good from the Lord
still existing in the interiors of the mind, and his son Gideon is a
Some idea of the
specific quality denoted by them may be formed, from the circum 
stance of their belonging to the tribe of Manasseh: for Manasseh,
who was the eldest son of Joseph, denotes the will principle of the

. principle of truth proceeding from that origin.

spiritual nlan,-or the new will formed by regeneration in man's
spiritual part by the Lord.

That Gideon had some such representation as we have stated, is
evident from the employment in which the angel of the Lord found
1-Ie was threshing wheat: our translation says" by
him engaged.
the winepress," but according to the original it is " in the wine 
press ;"-an extraordinary expression that has very much perplexed
translators and commentators.
Some have rendered it "in a little
threshing floor," supposing that the winepress is mentioned, not
to denote that any winepress was actually concerned, but to inti 
mate that the threshing floor was not larger than the space occu 
pied by a winepross ; others, as the English translators, conceiving
this too far
fetched, have put an unusual meaning on the pre 
position signifying in, and have translated it by. . "However, we
need to take no pains to reconcile the literal expressions, or to
ascertain in what manner or place Gideon, as a certain man,
actually managed to thresh his wheat : the spiritual sense is clearly
discoverable in the mode of the expression as it stands in the
original; and, no doubt, that singular mode of expression was made
use of, purposely to give the spiritual sense in fulness,-the ob 
scurity which was thus thrown over the letter, being comparatively
a thing of no consequence. To thresh wheat is to separate it from
food: and a winepress
the husk preparatory to its being used for
is used to perform a similar operation in the preparation of wine,
it being a machine for the separation of the juice of the grapes
from the skins and refuse. Wheat, as the noblest species of corn
and the chief article of human food, represents that which tends
most substantially to nourish the spiritual man, which is good of a
celestial order appropriated in his will: and wine, which is the
most generous kind of drink, denotes that which tends most di 
rectly to invigorate the spiritual part, by enabling the mind to ap 
propriate the good on which it must primarily subsist; which is
truth of a spiritual order appropriated in his understanding: for
as food alone, without drink, would not nourish the body,
for
want of a vehicle to convey it into the system, so neither will good
without truth nourish the mind: yet all the nourishment resides
i~ the food: by drink alone> though it readily enters the system,
life cannot be supported.

Thus,

then, by Gideon's threshing wheat in a winepress, and
this in order to hide it from the Midianites, is denoted, that not 
withstanding the prevalence of such things as are represented by
.,.
the Midianites in the external man, there is) nevertheless within a

,

108

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

.principle that is intent upon the appropriation of good, and upon
the purification of it from the chaff' of our own defilements : and
that this is going on while there is nothing outwardly apparent but
a state of jeopardy and trial arising from the presence of opposing
principles in the external: for a winepress, on account of thc force
used in it, represents also, a state of severe temptation, hy 'which
the quality of the truth we have received is ascertained. Thus
while nothing is discoverable to the outward observer, nor perhaps
to the man himself, but affliction and desolation-though the good
that is being effected is hid from the Midianites-c-thcre neverthe 
less is a principle inwardly which is intent llpon exploring and
appropriating good, and to which the angel of
the Lord-an
influence of his divine Spirit, can be manifested, and can excite it
to an open development by the encouraging assurance-the Lord
is with thee, thou mighty man of valour.

We see, then, from this slight view of this part of our subject, of
what infinite importance it is that we should ever preserve in our
internal man, a steady determination to -the love and practice of
goodness,-that we should ever cultivate in our hearts a sense of
the pre-eminence of such affections as have the Lord and heaven for
their objects, and which manifest themselves in harmlessness of
demeanour and works of charity-that term being understood to
mean the pure love of our neighbour.
If this be attended to, all ex 
ternal.clouds will ere long pass away i-s-sorrow 111ay endure for a
night, but joy cometh in the morning. We have also seen how
much improvement may be derived from a careful watching over
our thoughts-how much our eternal state depends on our employ 
ing the freedom of will and choice, which we enjoy as a gift im 
parted to us from moment to moment from the Lord alone, to the
purpose of making a right choice in those spiritual associations
with the inhabitants of the eternal world, which, whether we know
or reflect upon it or not, we are forming or strengthening every
instant of our lives.
Of what infinite moment must this be to us,
when we must so soon become inhabitants of the eternal world
ourselves! Of the certainty of this we are ,continually receiving
warnings. At all periods of life, we are liable to be called away:
let us be prepared for the call by forming our minds while here" to
an association with the inhabitants of the heavenly world, by con 
tinually striving to cultivate heavenly affections in our internal
man, by removing every outward obstruction, till our whole mind
and life assumes the heavenly impress.

SERMON XIII.

Judges vi. 11-24.

(Sermon ii.)

'lohy then is all

And there came an angel of the Lord, and sat under an oak which
was in Ophrah,
that pertained unto Joash the Abiezrite. And
to hide it from
his son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress,
the Midianites, And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him,
thou mighty man of
and said unto him, The Lord is with thee,
valour. And Gideon said unto him, 0 my Lord,
'if the L01·d be
this befallen us? and where be all his
with us,
miracles 'lohich our fathers told us oj, saying, Did not
the Lord
bring us 'UJJ from Egypt? -But now the Lord hath forsaken us,
and delivered us into the katul« of the Midianites. And the Lord
looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt
save israel [rom the hand of the Midianites: have not I sent
ihee ? And he said unto him, Oh, my Lord, wherewith shall I
save Israel P Behold, my fan~ily is poor in Mdnasseh, and I atn
in my father's house. And the Lord said unto him,
the least
Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as
one man. And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in
thy sight, then shew me a sign that thou talkest with me. Depart
not hence, I jJray thee, until I corne unto thee, and bring forth fny
it before thee. And he said, I will tarry till
present, and set
thou come again. And Gideon went in, and made 'ready a kid,
and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour.·
the flesh he put in a
basket, and he put the brotli in a pot, and brought it out unto him
under the oak, and presented it. And the angel of God said unto
him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon
this rock, and pour out
Then the
angel of the Lord put forth the end of the staff that was in his
hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes: And there
. arose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the un 
Then the angel of the Lord departed out of his
leavened cakes.
sight. And when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of the
Lord, Gideon said, Alas, 0 Lord God I for because I have seen
an angel of the Lord face to face. And the Lord said unto him,
Peace be unto thee: fear not: thou shalt not die.
Then Gideon
10

the broth. And he did so.

110

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xiii,]

Chap. vi. 11-24.

III

built an altar there unto the Lord, and called it Jehovah-shalom:
unto this day it is in Ophrah of the Abiezrites:"

IN our last discourse, we took occasion, from the long dialogue
which is recorded in this passage of Holy Writ,
to offer some ex 
planation of the general design of the numerous cO:lvers~tions
which are detailed in the Scriptures, and to shew, that In their ap...
they denote,
plication to man in the progress of his regeneration,
not dialogues between distinct
individuals, but distinct trains of
thought, passing in the mind of one individual, and injected into
him by a spiritual agency, operating either from heaven or from
hell and from the various classes of the spiritual associates who are
always near him. Having thus proposed such general observations
as seemed necessary to prepare us for a right apprehension of the
import of the narrative, we will now, as the particulars to be con 
sidered are numerous, and will take some time to unfold even with
the utmost brevity, proceed without further preface to what lies
before us.

,

.

We have seen that Gideon represents a principle of truth from
good in the interiors of the mind, which is intent upon the acquisi 
tion and appropriation of good, even during those states of tempta 
tion in which the exteriors seem utterly carried away by the in 
undation of trifling thoughts of an evil nature,
tending to the
confirmation of merely external delights j and that the appearance
of the angel of the Lord to Gideon represents an influx of divine
truth from the Lord Himself through heaven, invigorating what is
thus of Himself in the interiors of the mind, and preparing it to
flow into the exteriors with such power, as to dissipate whatever is
infused thereinto from the kingdom of darkness, and restore the
whole man to a state of heavenly peace and delight. The conver 
sation then which is recorded between the angel and Gideon, no
. doubt expresses the perceptions which pass in the mind of the re 
generating subject, preparatory to the conclusion of the temptation
represented by the invasion of Israel by the Midianites.

The first

thing stated is, that the angel of the Lord appeared
unto Gideon: by which is described, the perception of light in the
interiors of the mind, and of the re-opening of a communication
with heaven, discovered by a sense of inward peace and elevation
towards the Lord, after a long period of darkness and anxiety.
For when a person, truly intent upon making sure his reception
into that state of happiness, the consequence of an appropriation
of a heavenly principle of life, which it is the desire of the Lord
that all should attain, is not in a state of temptation, he feels an

inward peace and tranquillity ·of mind,
the consequence, though
this he does not know unless he has learned it from the doctrines
of his church, of the nearness of angelic associates,-of the in 
teriors of the mind being in fact so opened towards heaven, as to'
receive a communication, not indeed of the thoughts of the angels,
but of somewhat of their heavenly affections which have inherent
in them heavenly delight: he hence also has a ready access to the
Lord in his devotions, with a sense of divine favour and accept 
ance, which gives a life and soul to all that he thinks, does, and is.
But in states of temptation all
this is intercepted, whence he can 
not help coming into deep anxiety, with a sense of apprehension
as to his spiritual security, a dread of being finally cut off from the
heavenly kingdom, even extended to a despair of ever attaining it :
for ill this state his thoughts are kept continually on his own evils;
and it seems to him as if he must fall into and be fixed in them
for ever. This arises from the agency of the tempting spirits, who
call forth such things from his menlory, and from his hereditary
-propensities; and indeed not only excite \Vhat
the man actually
has possessed and appropriated, but infuse and charge upon him
much more, which though altogether from them.. appears to the
tempted subject as if it was wholly from himself.
In the present
state of the world these states, probably, are not often experienced,
yet we are assured in the New Church Writings, in which SUCll
subjects are laid open with a clearness never known before,
that
real temptations are attended with such feelings and perceptions
as these, and that there is no other way by which the evils of
man's nature, especially such as he has confirmed by actual life,
can be removed from his mind: for the mind is a real spiritual
substance and form, and whatever has been an object of the
love gives a certain modification to that form, so that the removal
of an evil is in fact
the removal of something in the organization
of the mind, and the correction of some deformity which had been
occasioned by it: of course this cannot be effected by a mere
thought or wish, but only by a painful course of discipline. This
discipline therefore, must, at SOUle period or other of our existence,
be undergone, before we can enter the regions where no spiritual
deformity can appear: if therefore it is not undergone in this life,
it must after the death of the body, provided such a degree of the
reception of divine things had in this life been attained, as to have
given a preponderance in the interiors to good over evil: other 
wise it never can be experienced at all, and thus the evils that have
a place in the spiritual organization can never be removed at all,

112

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

but must sink the unhappy subject of them to the regions of final
misery. That some who are destined for heaven do not enter it '
i~mediately on the death of the body, is evident from many pas 
sages of the Holy Word rightly understood: as from that where
John says in the Revelation that he saw souls under the altar who
thou not avenge our
said, "How long, Lord, holy and true, dost
blood on them that dwell on the earth;" by which is spiritually
described the desire of those who are in temptations from the in 
festation of evil spirits in the other life, wherein they are guarded
by the Lord's divine love, to be delivered and taken up into heaven.
I mention these things lest it should be supposed, since Inany
experience little or nothing of real spiritual temptations in this
life, and yet they are necessary to final purification, that therefore
there is room to draw unfavourable conclusions respecting their
eternal state. None, it is plainly seen, pass through the world
without undergoing trials of an external or natural kind; and
these, when made a right use of no doubt tend, though indirectly,
to improve the spiritual state: but spiritual temptations are trials
in which the objects in suspense are not earthly but heavenly ones,
being real conflicts in the mind between evil and good" false per ...
suasion and truth, and being always attended with anxieties, not
about temporal things merely, but about eternal salvation : though
sometimes anxieties of both kinds are combined, which are the
most severe temptations of all. And we may also be assured, that
the more of the temptations necessary for our purification are un 
dergone, and thus the more of the evils inherent in our nature or
acquired by habit, are removed, in the present life, the higher and
more' blessed will be the state to which we shall be exalted in
eternity.

In the case then before us, by the angel of the Lord's appearing
to Gideon is meant the restoration of the communication with
heaven and the Lord, towards the conclusion of a state of tempta 
tion j and by his saying, "The Lord is with thee, thou mighty
man of valour," is meant, a perception in the mind, flowing in
from this source, of the divine presence, and of the impartation of
strength to the truths abiding with us from the Lord" sufficient to
drive' away all the clouds of temptation. But when a temptation
has been continued so long, that it appears as if it never could
the mind is not easily raised from its despondency,
have an end,
but a multitude of doubts is suggested as to the possibility of de 
liverance; which is denoted by the numerous doubting answers
a~d requests made by Gideon. Thus he does not at first recognize

xiii.]

Chap. vi. 11-24.

113

the being who spake with him to be an angel; by which is inti 
and
mated that in the first breaking of light through the clouds
the arising of the first encouraging thoughts, it is not immediately
seen to be a real commencement of deliverance, but is distrusted
as an illusion. of deceitful hope: and the answer that he ~akes is
that of despair i-of a man who on such a suggestion arising, re 
ga~'tds what it points to as impossible; having been so entirely de 
prived of his spiritual comforts as to doubt whether those he had
experienced in former times had in them any thing real, and had
not a~l been mere tricks of the imagination: for he says, "0 my
lord, If the Lord be with us, WIlY then has all this befallen us ?" 
words which imply a belief, from the severity of the temptation,
that there was nothing of the- Lord in the mind at all, that if there
were really any thing good within, it would be impossible to seem
to. be so enti.rely deprived of it. He adds, " And where are all the
IUI.racles which our fathers told us of, saying, did not the Lord
bring us up out of Egypt." These words express doubt whether
f?rlUer spil:itual experiences had been real or not, from a supposi ..
tion, that If we had really been delivered from the merely natural
state represented by Egypt, we should not be liable to fall into the
grievous condition which is now experienced. The miracles, or, as
the word here used more properly means, the wonderful works,
are the divine operations in our behalf by which we had been
brough.t from a ~erely natural state, regardless altogether of spiri 
t~al t~lIngs, and Ignorant of them, to a state of reception and de 
light In them: and it is added, " which our fathers told us of," to
denote that there were deliverances belonging to a former state
if real, seem no,~
which indeed influence the present, but which,
to have been of no use, as not serving to prevent our heinz now
lost in a different manner: "for," he says, " now the Lord ~hat.
ever he may formerly have done for us) hath forsaken us, and de 
livered us into the hand of the Midianites :"-every thing of the
Lord once received in our minds is now become extinct, the con 
sequence of which is that we are wholly sunk into the power of
merely external things with their fallacious delights. Words call 
~ot express a more entire state of despair: and their being urged
III answer to the angel's first salute, seems to intimate that the
first effect of the near presence and powerful influx of the Lord in
states of temptation, is, to make us feel all the horrors of our con 
It is true, indeed, that in all temptations the Lord is in ..
dition.
mostly present, and more immediately so than at other times :
otherwise we could not be kept in a determination of resisting, but

10*

114

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xiii.]

Chap. vi. 11-24.

115

should indubitably yield, andthere can be liO doubt that the final
sentiment of despair is the consequence of the Lord's drawing still
nearer, so that the influx 'being stronger than our state is adequate
to bear; occasions the sense of extreme humiliation and wortlrless 
ness which suggest
the thought that there can be no hope for us.
This however is one of the chief things which the temptation is
permitted in order to produce-not the sense of despair,
if this
could be separated from the other, but the conviction that in and
of ourselves we have nothing that is good, that in and of ourselves
we are nothing but evil ;-to feel. as if the Lord had forsaken us,
or' 'cannot dwell with creatures so defiled; but that we are delivered
into the hands of the Midianites,-are wholly abandoned to the
possession of the evils of our nature. This state of self-abasement
however is one which prepares us for a more direct reception of
the Lord's mercies; which is implied by its being now said, that
~~ the Lord looked upon him,"-to look, as having reference to the
sight, denoting to communicate a clear perception.
"And He
said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the
It does not
hand of the Midianites : have not I sent
readily appear what is here referred to by the demonstrative pro 
noun this-Go in this thy might : but if, as one would expect, it
refers to what Gideon had just said, it beautifully illustrates. the
"]\iy
doctrine contained in the Lord's saying to the apostle,
strength shall be made perfect
for as soon as
Gideon, or the spiritual man represented by him, is brought to the
heartfelt acknowledgment of his own nothingness and vileness,
the
If, however, the saying, "this
Lord says, "Go in this thy might."
thy might," refers to the vigour with which he was threshing the
wheat, the meaning will be,
to apply this earnestness with which
the mind is intent on appropriating good and rejecting its impuri 
ties in the internal man,
to the rejection of every thing opposite
thereto in the external: and as both these applications of the
words are in agreement with genuine doctrine, I cannot say which
is specifically in tended.

in weakness:"

thee 7"

But we find that this improved perception of the Lord's merci 
fuldesigns has the effect of carrying Gideon's humility still further;
for his answer is, "0 my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel?
behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my
father's house." As his former answer had more reference to a
sense of man's being in himself nothing but evil, so this has more
application' to an acknowledgment of utter inability of and from
himself to do any thing good. To be the least, when willingly

avowed, is to be in humility, and in what is near akin to it} and
cannot exist without it, in innocence: for the being innocent, in
the sense in which it
is referred to in the Scriptures, does not
mean the being free from any hereditary corruption, or the having
neter fallen into any transgression, for in these senses none are in 
nocent, 1101' can they possibly be made so; but it refers toa state
in which the mind is thoroughly sensible of its own weakness and
unworthiness, and in which it depends entirely upon the Lord
alone, as a child on its parents.
It is no doubt on account of this
signification of being the least of a family or tribe, that it is men 
thus Othniel, as noticed in a former
tioned in other instances:
discourse,
is described as being the least of his family ; And when
Saul was told by Samuel that he should be king over Israel, he
answered, "Am not I a Benjamite, of the smallest/of the tribes of
Israel? and my family the least of all the fan1ilies of the tribe of
Benjamin 7 Wherefore,
So
then, speakest
David was the least and youngest of his father's house. These
instances illustrate the Lord's words, "Except ye shall receive the
kingdom of God as a little child, ye shall in nowise enter therein :"
instructing us that innocence, consisting in humility and the re 
nunciation of self, is the only soil in which Christian graces can be
planted so as to be fruitful. And where self is thus put out of the
\vay, room is made for the Lord to enter: wherefore "tIle Lord
said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the
Midianites as one man:" which denotes a further clear percep 
tion that deliverance from the infesting influence is not, as was at
first supposed, impossible, but a full conviction that by the Lord's
aid so full a victory over it may be obtained, that the whole mass
of infesting incitements and persuasions should be swept a way to 
gether.

thou so to me?"

Still, however, all

that has hitherto been affected by the per 
ceptions thus communicated, has been the intellectual part of the
mind: but
though this is thus convinced of the practicability of
the deliverance promised, so that hope begins to succeed to despair,
yet the will is not yet so inflamed and animated to the work as to
exalt this hope into confidence.
For a long time previously there
has been an inability to raise the affections to the Lord, and to feel
any sense of worship being accepted: wherefore, until this call be
experienced, although the understanding is convinced that by
divine aid deliverance rnay be obtained, yet the mind does not feel
fully assured that this conviction is really from the Lord, and is
This
positively an earnest of the attainment of such deliverance.

xiii.]

Chap. vi. 11-24.

117

thus perceived what a near manifestation he had had of the divine
presence, ccAlas, 0 Lord God! for because I have seen an anael of
the Lord face to face:" and the revivification of the mind in con 
~equence of the reception of a new principle of life from the Lord,
IS meant by the Lord's consoling answer, "Peace be unto thee ~
fear not: . thou shalt not die." And that the state of improved
love.and Inward peace thus acquired is stored up in the interiors,
and IS .at~ended with blessed consequences to all eternity, is meant
when It IS added, " And Gideon built there an altar unto the Lord
and ~a!led it, Jehovah-shalom, (that is, Jehovah's peace) : unto thi~
day It IS yet In Ophrah of the Abiezrites."
. What blessed encouragement is here afforded us to persevere
steadfastly through every stage of our spiritual progress since even
the most se.vere, which after all endure but for a ~om:nt, procure
for us blessings that never have an end. What satisfaction it must
afford. us t.o have a well-grounded confidence that an altar to the
Lord ~s real~y erected in the interiors of the mind-a principle that
~orshIl)S HIm continually from pure love, and the name of which
IS Jehovah's peace,-that is, its quality is such that a state of in 
most peace, the result of the union of goodness and truth and of
conjunction of life from the Lord is inherent in it· and that this
shall a~ide t,o this day-t~a: whatever state may ev~r after be pre 
sent, still this shall be within, May we be faithful enough to be 
?ome partakers ~f su?h mercies j
to which end Iuay we ever be
In~ent on the purification of our heart and life) and submit in all
things to the leadings of the Lord and the direction of His Word.

116

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

is intimated by Gideon's saying,' "If now I have found grac~ in
, thy sight, then shew me a sign that thou talkest with me,"-,vhere
the latter words properly mean, that it is thou, (that is, the Lord,)
thatrtalkest with the soul and impartest
these perceptions: he
adds, "Depart not hence, I pray thee, till I bring forth Iny present)
and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come
again. And Gideon went, and made ready a kid, and unleavened
cakes of an ephah of flour:
the flesh he put in a basket, and he put
.the broth in a pot, and brought it out to Him under the oak, and
presented it." All this denotes the preparing of the mind for the
pure worship of the Lord, by raising to him the purest affections
of innocence and charity of which it is capable, and the desire of
experiencing conjunction of life with Him thereby. Then" the
angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened
cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth:" by
which is implied, that the affections of innocence and the percep 
tions of
truth connected therewith, must be entirely separated
from self, and acknowledged to be from the Lord alone by the
divine truth of His Word, which is meant by the rock :-And
-when Gideon had done so, "Then the angel of the Lord put forth
the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh
and the unleavened cakes, and there arose up fire out of the rock,
and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes:" by which is
meant, that when the offering of the best affections is thus made
in sincerity, an influx of power flows into them from the Lord,
signified by the putting forth of the staff, and they are vivified by
the impartation of a pure flame of love from the Lord by the \tVord,
thus
denoted by the fire springing up out of the rock, and that
our faint affections are really elevated to, accepted by, and have
the effect of conjoining us with, the divine love of the Lord, signi 
fied by the offering being thus consumed.
'I'hen it is said that
"the angel of the Lord departed out of his sight:" denoting the
termination of the state, of the manifest nearness of the divine
presence, and the return of the man into a state more of his own
affection and thought,
though now essentially changed and re 
newed: the consequence of which is, a sense of the nearness in
which the divine presence had been felt, and of holy awe on ac 
count of it, attended with the extinction of the life of the previous
state, and the reception of a new principle of life from the Lord.
'I'he sense of holy awe, and of the extinction of the life of the self 
hood, which appears at the time as if a total extinction of all life
would. attend it, is implied by the exclamation of Gideon when he

SERlVI0N XIV.

Judges vi. 36-40.
" And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by n~y hand,
as thou hast said, Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor,
(and) if the dew be on the fleece only, and (it be) dry on all
the
earth" (beside), then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by rny
hand, as thou hast said, And it was so : for he rose up early on
the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and uJringed the dew
out of the fleece, a bowlfull of water. And Gideon said unto God,
Let not thine anger be hot against me, and 1 will speak but titis
once:
let
it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the ground let
there be dew. And God did 80 that night: for it was dry upon
the fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground."

let me prove, I pray thee, but

this once with the fleece:

.

.

this is not

AMONG the numerous remarkable things which 'distinguish this
history of Gideon,
the least, that he was so slow to
believe the reality of the divine commission which was confided to
him, as to require of the Lord repeated signs to remove his dis 
trust; and that the Lord so far condescended to his infirmity, as
to grant all the signs that he requested; and even more; for the
last sign, which was that of the dream related by the Midianitish
. soldier, and overheard by him, seems to have been granted for his
encouragement without his asking for it. No doubt
this is de 
signed to instruct us, that in so severe a state of tern ptation as is
represented by the oppression of Israel by the Midianites, after a
state of despair of ever experiencing a deliverance, has been in 
duced, and for some time continued (which we have seen in a
former discourse is plainly indicated by Gideon's language in his
interview with the angel that first appeared to him.) it is only by
degrees that the mind becomes re-assured. This, we may conclude,
is permitted, in order to render the blessing more real and per 
manent, and to guard against the danger of man's becoming elated
by too sudden a deliverance, and so forgetting the divine hand to
whom wholly his deliverance is owing. We also see in these cir 
cumstances, even when only viewed in a superficial manner, a
. striking exemplification of the divine goodness of the Lord in bear-

[Serm, xiv.]

Sermons on Judges.

119

ing with our imperfections, our distrust, our tardiness to prosecute,
or rather to acquiesce in, his benevolent designs towards us,-of
that long- suffering and tender mercy which is content to lead
gently the feeble, and does not readily turn away from their weak 
ness or their frowardness.
It is said of the Lord when in the
world, that Himself bare our iniquities and carried our sorrows;
and He does the same,
though not exactly in the same sense,
through all his dealings with us. To look at the case before us in
a merely natural point of view, it might be thought that
the
evidence which Gideon had already had of the divine presence, and
of the stability of the divine promises, had been so ample, that to
desire more must have offended Him who had granted him already
so much, and have been the most
likely way to Tender his hopes
ineffectual. He had already been favoured with ..a visit from an
angel of the Lord, for which purpose the eyes 'of his spirit must
have been opened, though this is not expressed more plainly than
by saying, that the angel of the Lord appeared unto him; and this
was in fact an appearance of the Lord himself, in the only way in
which at that time it could be afforded, which was, by filling an
angel so fully with the divine presence, that his own identity was
for the time swallowed up by it, and he knew no other than that
he was the Lord Himself; whence it is said in Gideon's interview
with the angel, that the Lord looked on him, and twice, the Lord
said unto him. Then also he desired a manifest proof that it was
the Lord or his angel who conversed with him, which was granted
by the wonderful manner in which' his offering was consumed.
Then he received divine instructions in the night, and was not only
delivered from the danger he had incurred by executing them, but'
had his commission so fully acknowledged by his countrymen that
he presently found himself at
the head of a great army. But as
the day of conflict approached, his confidence began to waver, and
he desired the signs mentioned in our text; and they were granted.
N a doubt the reason was, because, though his trust in the Lord
was not yet equal to the work before him, there was a principle of
trust within and his fears were only superfioial,-because his state
was similar to that of the man in the gospel, who applied to the
Lord for the cure of his deaf and dumb child, and who, on the
Lord's saying to him; C( If thou canst believe, all things are possible
to him that believeth," cried out with tears; " Lord, I believe: help
thou mine unbelief." Thus it is that the Lord bears with our in 
firmities, and removes them as we permit him, when he sees that
there is in the heart a real desire for the object in view,-a sincere

120

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

wish to be delivered from the power of our spiritual enemies, of all
our corrupt inclinations and perverse propensities. Where he sees
this within, He by the gentlest means and most tender compliances
leads us to that state of confidence in Him which is essential to
our deliverance from any spiritual thraldom. But where our want
of confidence arises from an inwardly cherished love for that, what 
"ever it is, from which we outwardly profess a wish, or offer a prayer,
to' be delivered; where, even in the cases where we ourselves think
we are sincere, but when our seeming desire for
the spiritual
deliverance arises only from a perception in the intellect of the
pernicious nature of all evil attachments, and of the superiority of
such a state of love and life as divine truth dictates; but yet, not 
withstanding this intellectual conviction,
inwardly
clings to the deprecated evil; in this case the unbelief is radical,
and wecannot hope for those helps to its removal, which, in our
hearts, we do not really desire.
" To proceed, however, more directly to the subject. And first, to
connect the present subject of our meditations with the former,
it
will be necessary to notice the events that took place bet ween the
circumstances recorded in our last text, and in our present.

the will still

In the 25th and following verses it is recorded, that Gideon was
directed by the Lord in the night, to throw down the altar of Baal
that his father bad, and to cut down the grove that was by it, and
to offer bis father's second bullock of seven years old as a burnt 
sacrifice with the wood of 'the grove. These circumstauces denote
that offering of the affections of the external man to the Lord sig 
nified by the bullock, which corresponds with the state of goodness
previously received in the internal man, and which cannot take
place till the love of evil, denoted by the altar of Baal, is dislodged
from its inmost seat, so as no longer to form the chief object of
attachment even, to the external man. The manner in which
Gideon executed the injunction is thus related: "Then Gideon
took ten men of his servants, and did as the Lord had said unto
him: and (so) it was, because he feared his father's household, and
the men of the city, that he could not do it by day,
that he did it
by night:" by which is represented, in general, the state of obscurity
in which the removal of evil from its inmost seat in the interior
affections takes place, so that man scarcely knows when it is effected,
owing to there still being contaminated principles in the lower
regions of the mind which prevent him from knowing what is pass 
ing in the higher: so true is it, as the Lord declares, that the pro 
is deeply hidden
cess .of regeneration, as to its interior operations,

xiv.]

Chap. vi. 36-40.

121

"The wind bloweth where it listeth,
from man, when he says,
and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it
cometh and whither it goeth :-so is everyone that is born of the
spirit." Tho narration proceeds, "And when the men of the city
arose early in the morning, behold" the altar of Baal was cast down,
and the grove was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock
was offered upon the altar that was built. And they said one to
another, Who hath done this thing?" These words describe a
a state of elevation, and thence of illumination from whence the
change in the state of the interiors becomes manifest to those prin 
ciples of the mind, which, although originally from the Lord (for
these people were Israelites), are yet so contaminated b~ self as to
favour the evil which has been removed, and a consternation among
them in consequence.
" And when they enquired and asked, they
said Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing. Then the men
of tile city said unto J oash, Bring out thy son that he may die,
because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath
cut down the grove that was by it."
'These words describe a per 
ception in this part of the mind, that there is within a principle of
genuine truth from good from the Lord, which is Gideon the son of
J oash which no longer suffers evil and its falsity to have the pre 
emin:nce; but with a disposition as yet not
to yield to this
to descend into open
heavenly principle, but by not suffering it
manifestation, to destroy it: for it is a momentous truth that unless
heavenly principles within are suffered t~ come int~ outward acts,
they soon vanish from the mind j ~ccordlng .to that Importa~t doc 
trine of the New Church, that charity and faith are mere perishable
things, unless they are rendered fixed and permanent by being
brought into suitable deeds and actions. "Joash however," . said
unto all that stood against him, "vVill ye plead for Baal? ,vIII JTe
save him? he that will plead for him,
let him be put to death
wbile (it is yet) morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself,
because (one) hath cast down his altar. Therefore on tbat day he
called him (that is, Gideon,) J erubbaal, saying, Let Baal plead
against him, because he hath thrown down his altar."
These
words imply a perception that evil, or the principle of ~vil, in itself
is nothing, and has no power:
it only becomes something an.d pos 
sesses power, as man gives it an existence in the forms of Ins own
mind, the consequence of which is, his own destruction.

" Then," it is said, "all the Midianites, and the Amalekites, and
the children of the east, went over, and pitched in the valley of
J ezreel;" which words express the state of devastation and tempt...

11

1.22

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm..

xiv.]

Chap. vi. 36-40.

123

ation in which t e external of the mind wae still held, by the infu 
sion of evil suggestions in great quantities, keeping the thoughts
fixed 011 external and frivolous things, and rendering it incapable of
delight or enjoyment in things of a heavenly nature.
"nut the
spirit of the Lord," it proceeds, C( came upon Gideon, and he blew a
trumpet, and Abiezer was gathered after him;" which words
describe the entrance of a spirit of divine life into the principle
of genuine truth from good in the internal Ulan represented by
Gideon, and an influx thence, signified by his blowing a trumpet,
into such thin~s as were nearest of kin to it, denoted by Abi 
ezer, which was the name of the family to which Gideon be 
longed. Then" he sent messengers throughout all Mauasseh,
who also was gathered after him i "
this denotes that every thing
belonging to the will of good, which also was of kindred to the
principle represented by Gideoll, he being of the tribe of Manasseh,
also received the divine virtue, and stood prepared to resist the en 
slaving power.
"And he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto
.Zebulun, and unto N aphthali; and they carne up to meet them: n
Asher denotes whatever has relation to the delight of spiritual affec 
tion, which is charity, Zebulun whatever is in the spiritual mar 
riage, or the desire for the conjunction of goodness and truth, and
is of a willingness to suffer the trials and
.N aphthali whatever
temptations necessary for the attainment of regeneration.

Now it was when Gideon was surrounded by this powerful army,
that he began to feel that anxiety about the event which is ex 
pressed by the signs he asked in the words of our text.
" And
Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by nlY hand, as
thou hast said, behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor: and
if the' dew be upon the fleece only, and (it be) dry upon all
the
earth, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by my hand, as

, th ou hast said."

This wish of Gideon seems to eXIJress a desire, to experience the
divine .intlux in so special a manner, as to be assured that it is not
merely the common operation of the Lord which is given at all
times, but that it is a communication expressly designed to support
the mind on this particular necessity and occasion: but as this
sign desired and obtained by Gideon, though so remarkable, is no
where treated of in the writings of the New Church, I shall only
offer such general remarks upon it as may be suggested by the
known signification of the several things that are mentioned.

Dew is often spoken of in Scripture, and is the appropriate em 
,plem of an influx of divine truth from a celestial origin, of such a

nature as to bring with it a sense of inmost peace and tranquillity.
It denotes an influx, in fact, of such a description, as to elevate the
to repose in 11im with full con 
mind to the Lord, and enable it
It is an influence of the softest and most gentle kind,
fidence.
lulling to rest all contending cares, and so
removing all anxiety,
watering the soul as it were in its inmost recesses, preparing it to
Its sweet
become fruitful ill all the graces of tb e regenerate life.
and tender nature may be seen by its application in that beautiful
Psalm, where the inspired penman describes the blessings of mutual
love by -a few most striking corresponding images: "Behold," says
he, "how good and pleasant a thing it is for brethren to dwell to 
gether in unity!
It is like the precious ointment upon the head,
that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard, that went down
to the skirts of his garments; as the dew of Hermbn, (and as the
dew) that descended on the mountains of Zion: for there the Lord
commanded the blessing, (even) life for evermore." Here the hap 
piness of mutual love is compared to the holy ointment with which
Aaron was inaugurated into his office, because that was significative
of the influx of divine love, flowing through the mind from its in 
most to its outmost-from the head to the beard and the skirts of
the garments; and it is compared to the dew of Hermon and of
Zion, because this denotes an influx of divine truth answering to
such love, and which is sweet, pacific, and diffusing through the
mind a sense of indescribable serenity and blessedness.

Now the threshing floor, into which the fleece was to be put that
was to receive the dew, denotes a state in which goods and truths
are separated from falsities and evils, as the grain is from the chaff,
thus it denotes also a state of trial and temptation, which was that
of Gideon, or of the man of the church that he represents, on the
present occasion:' and to put a fleece, or the wool ~ of a sheep,
herein, is to preserve in this state a principle of good,-to have
respect to good therein; for as lambs and sheep are representative
of the principle of love and charity, so is their wool, being their
outward covering, representative of the same in its outward mani 
festation-to which also it corresponds by its warmth and softness.
This is the reason why, when the Lord appeared to John, in the
Revelation, it is said that" his head and his hair were white like
wool, as white as snow," because his hair represented His divine
truth or divine proceeding in its most extreme or ultimate mani 
festation, and this is denoted as to good by wool and as to truth by
snow :-for what
is called divine truth, as proceeding- from the
Lord's divine love, is not truth alone, but truth united to good..

xiv.]

Chap. vi. 36-40.

125

.

"

~esson of s~iritual wisdom is conveyed.
It would be presumption
In us at this day, and could do our spiritual state no good,
to wish
for external signs. of the Lord's presence and protection: but we
ought to desire to become the subjects of all that is included in the
~igns granted t~ Gideon, and to find the subject of their spiritual
nn port fulfilled In our own experience. His desire we have seen
.
implies, a wish in the spiritual man to obtain a perception, even ill
the temptation which is represented by the whole of this history,
of the.Lord's presence in the interiors of the mind, communicating
a manifest sense of the heavenly gifts of which he is the Author.
How !lappy must it be, whatever storms may be raging without, to
experience the outpouring of a divine influence,-the dew of divine
b~essin~, fillin~ all within with the sense of tranquillity and hap 
piness . To this end, however, in the midst of the threshinz floor
,
the fl~ece.must be spread:
there must be a principle of good, of love,
of desI:e, In the inmost of the otherwise agitated mind, aspiring to be
replenished with the quickening influences of the Divine Truth and
Goodness! And how must the blessedness of the state be exalted
when the tranquil dew of heavenly peace, after having first watered
the holy affection thus prepared for receiving it, diffuses its i~ftu­
ence even through the lower principles of the mind" and fills the
whole man with a sense of the beatifying presence of Infinite
Goodness; while the inmost affection of all is 110W elevated to tb e
Divine Goodness itself, and is filled with a sense of pure good
and love.

b

1~,4

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

To lay the fleece then to receive the heavenly dew, no doubt must
mean, to receive the influx of divine truth in a ground of good:
and, when it is added that" it was so, for he rose up early on the
morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out
of the fleece, a bowl full of water;" the meaning is, that in conse 
qu~nceJ truths in abundance, in their more ultimate form, in which
they are not merely perceived as imparting an inward }Jeace and
blessedness, but become plain objects of the thought, are imparted
and received.

the first

its particular states, or in respect

But what can. be implied by the' repetition of the sign, with a
change in the manner of it? For it is added, " and Gideon said
unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak
but .this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the
fleece:
let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the
ground let there be dew." Doubtless this change of the miracle
was granted, to represent the two states which take place in the
course of the regenerate life in general, and which must also occur
to every new acquisition
in all
that .the regenerating subject makes:
is, when truth with
him has the preponderance, and he does good because truth re 
quires .him to do so, but not as yet from a decided affection for
good itself: the second is, when the love of good itself is his ruling
principle of action;
in which case he no longer makes account of
truths, except as means to advance his states, and promote the ob 
jects to which his love of good inclines him. The first of these
states is represented by the dew being received in the fleece; which
denotes that his will of good was as yet not properly such, but only
an affection for truths, and receptive of them; but when the fleece
remained dry, and the dew was on the ground, around it, it denotes
that change of state in which the ruling and inmost love is truly a
will of go.od, and truths are arranged around and below it as its
instruments for proceeding to its ends. Hence, when Gideon
begins his request with saying to the Lord, Let not thine anger be
.hot against me, it does not, in the internal sense, mean that there
was, any thing in his request that could be displeasing to God, but
a prayer for a further removal in himself of whatever is opposed to
the divine will, in order that he may receive in greater fulness the
Lord's love, and may come intothat state in which good} and not
.truth, as before, has the pre-eminence. Therefore the request was
granted: "And God did so that night; for it was dry upon the
fleece only, and there was dew upon all the ground."

In the signs then thus granted to Gideon, we see how beautiful a

11*

SERMON XV.

Judges vii. 2-7.
" And the Lord said unto Gideon, The people that are unih. thee are
too rnany for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel
vaunt
themseloes, saying, Mine own hand hail: saved me. Now
,.r77l0S0 
therefore go to; proclaim in the ears of the people, saying,
ever is fearful and afraid, let him. 'return and depart early from
mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty-and-two
thousand; and there remained ten thousand. And the Lord said
unto Gideon, The people are yet too many; bring them doum unto
the water, and I will try them for thee there: and it shall be, that
of whom I say unto thee, This shall go ~vitl~ thee, the same shall
go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shalt not
So he brougltt down the
go with thee,
jJeople unto the water: and the L01"d said unto Gideon, Everyone
that lappeth the water with his tongue, as a dog lappetli, hhn sha~t
thou set by himself; likewise, everyone that Innoetl: doun: on hi»
knees' to drink. And the number of thern that lapped, putting their
hand to their mouth, was three hundred men: but all the rest of
the people bowed down on their knees to drink uiater. And t.~.e
Lord said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped wzll
I save you, and deliver the Midianites into .thy hand: and let
all the other people go every man unto his place;"

the same shall not go.

treat, except

IN some discourses which I delivered a few years ago 011 tho eman 
cipation of the children of Israel when oppressed by the Midianites
. through the instrumentality of Gideon, who was divinely raised up
for the purpose, I did not
incidentally, and very
slightly, when discoursing upon other parts of the narrative, of the
very remarkable portion of it contained in the verses which I have
now read. However, as the history contained in this chapter, of the
rout of the Midianites by Gideon's band of only three hundred men,
is one of the most singular of the narratives to be found in the his..
torical books of the Holy Word; and as the account detailed in the
verses I have now read, of the reason why Gideon's originally re 
spectable army of thirty-two thousand,-a force which, to all human
apprehension, was quite small enough to atta~k a host of one hun-

xv.]

Chap. vii. 2-7.

]27

dred and thirty-five thousand men, which was the number of the
Midianites,-was reduced to a little band of three hundred, and
that by so extraordinary a test as the one prescribed for the pur 
pose,-as this is the most singular portion of this, throughout, most
wonderful narrative: I have thought it might be both acceptable
and useful again to make it
the subject of our meditation. The
one or two notices which are taken of the passage in the writings
of the New Church are extremely slight; yet perhaps they are
sufficient
to enable us to .deduce a satisfactory and profitable
explanation of the whole.

But before attempting any explanation of particulars, I cannot
refrain from making an observation, which, I think, must strike
everyone on reading the passage. What I mean is, the utt~r im 
possibility, upon any rational principles, except such as admit the
existence of a spiritual sense of the inspired record, of accounting
for the extraordinary method by which the three hundred men,
who, it was foreseen, would atchieve the victory, were selected out
of the ten thousand, of whom the force, which had already under 
gone a sifting which had reduced it
to less than a third of its
original amount, now consisted, and of which remaining ten .thou 
sand no fewer than nine thousand seven hundred would, It ap 
If, for some spir~t"?-al
pear~, have been a useless incumbranc~.
reason which human ingenuity could never have suspected, Divine.
Wisdom deemed it better to attack one hundred and thirty-five
thousand with three hundred-being one four hundred and fiftieth
fraction of that number, or at an odds of 450 to one,-rather than
with ten thousand, which would have been two -twenty-sevenths of
the enemy, or an odds of thirteen and a half to one,-still no one
could deem, that the proper method of ascertaining who should be
disbanded and who retained, could be, by trying in what manner
they would drink water from a stream or lake,-whether by ~nee~­
ing down to it, and sucking it up with their mouths, or taking It
up in the hollow of their hands and lapping it like a dog with their
tongue. Noone, I say, it is obvious, could possibly see any reason
for thus distinguishing between one portion of the men who con..
stituted the Israelitish army and the remainder, except those who
know that there does, exist by creation, a regular correspondence,
or mutual relation, between all natural things and actions and cer..
tain spiritual one8,-o1" that all natural things and actions have
their properly corresponding spiritual antitypes, so that the former
are representatives in nature of the latter; and that all the circum 
stances recorded in the Holy Word took place" and the book itself

[SerID.

128
is written, according to such correspondence.

Sermons on Judges.

I do imagine that
everyone 'who thinks deeply must see and acknowledge, that such
an otherwise unaccountable circumstance, as the selecting of the
three hundred men out of the whole ten thousand by so unprece 
dented a test,
that some spiritual reason
to evince,
must have been at the bottom of the transaction-that S01110 speci..
fie thing must have been represented by both modes of action, and
thus that the narrative must contain a spiritual sense quite dis 
tinct from the sense of the letter. Let us then see if we may be
enabled to discover what the spiritual sense of the whole narrative,
contained in the six verses which I have read, truly is.

is sufficient

We have lately seen that the Midianites, when mentioned in a
good sense, signify, persons of a simple and welt-disposed character,
who receive and apprehend the truths of the church in a simple
and superficial manner, but without perversion. But when they
are ,spok.en of in a bad sense,-as when, in this portion of the
sacred history, .they are described as enslaving and tyrannizing
.over the Israelites, as the representatives of the Lord's spiritual
church, they signify such persons and principles as are of au oppo 
site nature,-an utter indifference to divine truths, and au attach 
ment to falsities of the most superficial kind, the result of an im 
mersion in pursuits and pleasures of a merely frivolous and useless
description. Their oppression of the Israelites, consequently, re 
presents temptations and desolations induced on the church, and
on the member of the church, by the injection of such false and
evil principles by infernal spirits of such a quality. What is sizni 
fled by Gideon, and by the appearance to him of the an <rei of °the
Lord, and by the signs which were granted for his encouraaement
•
In the work to which he was called, of delivering his country, we
have formerly treated of at large: at present we must confine our 
selves to the portion of the divine narrative directly before 118.

b

b

.

.After Gideon, as related in the preceding chapter, had pro 
claimed his divine mission by casting down the altar of Baal, their
profane worship of which false deity had brought on the Israelites
the miseries under which they groaned, he blew a trumpet, which
was first responded to by the family of Abiezer to which he be.
longed, then by all the tribe of Manasseh, to which the family of
Abiezer belonged,. and then by the neighbouring tribes of Asher,
Zebulun, and N aphthali; whose warriors gathered around him to
the number of more than thirty thousand men. With this army,
considerable in itself, but trifling in comparison of the immense
host of the Midianites, he pitched by the well of Harod, having the

xv.]

Chap. vii. 2-7.

129

if they gained the victory,

enelny opposite to him on the other side of the valley. The pro 
portion of his forces to those of the enemy was as one to four and
a quarter, so that every four Israelites would, on joining battle, have
to engage, and,
to defeat, seventeen
Midiauites.
It is obvious, that unless assured of special divine aid,
most men would deem it madness to fight against SUCll odds. Yet
" the Lord said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too
many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel
vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved
me." As just remarked, it seems improbable that any men would
venture to attack. so superior a force unless in the full confidence
of divine assistance: yet men of an arrogant and boastful disposi 
tion, would be apt enough, on obtaining a victory under such cir 
cumstances, to forget the Divine .Po,ver to which, they owed it, and
cl~iln all the merit of it. as due to their own valour and military
skill,
In all spiritual conflicts, which these natural combats repre 
sent, such conduct would have most fatal consequences. A man
who, though seeking and acknowledging divine aid at
the time,
s~ould obtain the victory over any evil, or prevail in any tempta 
'tion, but should afterwards ascribe it to his own strength or ability,
and thus arrogate the merit of it to himself, would, by SUCll con 
duct, fall into a worse evil than that which he had surmounted: the
temptation would return upon him, he would no longer have
strength to resist it, and the consequence of his fall would be, con 
firmation in evil after having attained confirmation in good, thus,
a state' of profanation. The care of the Lord's divine providence
to guard man, in spiritual combats, from falling into such a delu 
sion, is represented by the Lord's words to Gideon as just recited,
and by the command which follows them. For the Lord proceeds
to ~ay, "NO\V therefore go to; proclaim in the ears of the people,
sayIng, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return, and depart
early from Mount Gilead."
"And," the narrative continues,
"there returned of the people twenty-and..two thousand; and there
remained ten thousand." They that are fearful and afraid, signify
they that are without trust and real faith in the Lord; conse 
quently, in the sense abstracted from person,such truths as man is
acquainted with as yet only exist as knowledges in the memory,
but are not united with their proper affection, and thus not opera 
tive in the life.
In such truths) the Lord is not present, and
in temptation or spiritual conflict.
therefore they are of no avail
This being the spiritual signification of those who are fearful and
afraid, the number of them is said to be twenty-two thousand.

130

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

.Twenty-two is twice eleven, and of the same signification; and
eleven derives its meaning from its relation to the number twelve,
just as ninety-nine does from its relation to the number a hundred.
A hundred signifies what
is full and complete, and consequently
ninety-nine signifies what is not full and complete, but is deficient
·inwhat is chief and primary; as in the parable of the hundred
sheep, of which one was gone astray. Ninety-nine, also, is a mul 
tiple of eleven, and must have the same general signification. Thus
twelve-a number so often mentionec1,-signifies all the principles
of truth and goodness constituent of the church in man, considered
in one aggregate complex. Eleven signifies the same in the gencral,
but in an imperfect state,-thus, the principles of truth and good 
ness existing more in knowledge or speculation than in love and
life. Twenty-two, as just mentioned, being twice eleven) has the
same general signification; and its being twenty-two thousand
makes no difference in the radical idea. Thus the number twenty 
two' thousand denotes, in the spiritual sense, the quality of those
who are said to be fearful and afraid, as being such persons, or in
the abstract sense such principles, as partake 1110re of knowledae
the Lord in them, a~d
than of life, and, consequently, have not
therefore are powerless and useless in tern ptation-conflicts.
In
these, nothing can prevail in which the Lord is not j and the Lord
is not in any knowledges of truth, while they are not so loved as to
be operative in the life. And yet, were the Lord, by other means,
to give deliverance, persons whose character is chiefly formed by
the possession of SUCll inoperative truths, would be foremost
in
claiming the merit of the victory to themselves, and in concluding
that they hadobtained it by their own proper power.

However, in the case before us, the twenty-two thousand who
were fearful and afraid, retired, on permission to do so being
proclaimed, before the conflict.
There still remained ten thou 
sand,-ten thousand men who stood firm and fearless, although,
by the defection of the twenty-two thousand, the odds against them
were increased above threefold-from four and a quarter to one, to
thirteen and a half- to one j so that, in the expected battle, every
two Israelites would have had to defeat twenty-seven of the enemy.
Yet, it appears, they were willing to meet the foe, neither fearful
. nor afraid, but relying on their Divine Protector to give them a
victory to which unassisted human prowess could not possibly
In the spiritual sense, ten thousand is a number of good
aspire.
signification, denoting all, and what is perfect, in relation to truths.
Under these circumstances, there could hardly be any reason to

xv.]

Chap, vii. 2-7.

131

expect, that if the whole of these were allowed to act aeainst the
Midianites, and were victorious, they wonld claim the merit of the
conquest as due to their own skill and valour, and take the honour
of it from the Lord. Literally and naturally, they were too few to
set up such a pretence j for how could any men, if even the bravest
that ever l~ved, cOffi?atting at the immense odds of two to twenty 
seven, ascribe the victory, when gained, to anything but the relied
on and realized assistance of the Divine Hand? And, spiritually,
the ?orrespondence of the number ten thousand is too good to be
apphcable to any truths not in union with goodness,-thus,
to
any but. SUCll as have in them the presence of the Lord, and power
from him. Yet, for a reason which is not stated,
though the
number of the arlllY was thus reduced by more than two-thirds
I~
"the Lord said unto Gideon, The people are yet'too many."
seems that though the quality of the truths represented by the
number ten thousand was in itself good and genuine, it was not
altogether such as "vas suited to the present emergency : wherefore
the Lor(~ commanded, saying, "Bring them down unto the water,
and I ,vIII try them for thee there: and it shall be,
that of whom
I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with
thee: and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go 'with
thee, the same shall not go."
" So," the narrative continues, "he
brought down the people unto the water: and the Lord said unto
Gideon, E:ery one that lappeth the water with his tongue, as a dog
Iappeth, him shalt thou set by himself;
likewise, everyone that
boweth down on his knees to drink. And the number of them
that lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, was three hundred
men: but all the rest of the people bowed down on their knees to
drink water. And the Lord said unto Gideon, By these three
hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midian 
ites into thy hand; and let all the other people go· every man unto
his own place."

We have already remarked on the demonstration which this
singular mode of testing the people, as to who were the proper
men, and who were not, to be led against the Midianites, affords
of the truth, that a spiritual sense is contained in the Word of God·
since it is impossible to conceive any reason, other than the spiri 
tual signification of the act, why the three hundred men who
lapped the water with their tongue should be more fit instruments
though so few in number, for routing the Midianites, then the nine
th~us.and seven hundred who stooped down upon their knees.
ThIS IS to be found in the signification of the tongue" of a dog, of

132

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xv.]

Chap. vii. 2-7.

133

water, of the number three hundred, and of the Midianites, whose
resistless opponents these three hundred men were found in the
sequel to be.

The tongue, in the Word of God, and in consequence of the cor 
respondence that exists between natural things and spiritual, by
virtue of its being the chief organ of speech and also of taste, sig 
nifies both the confession and perception of divine truths, and the
affection of good,
It signifies, because it corresponds to, the per 
ception of divine truths, and confession of the Lord from them,
by virtue of its being the chief instrument of speech, or in modu 
lating· the sounds which are made by the breath in passing through
thelarynx into articulate words; and it signifies, because it corres 
~.~nds to, the affection of good, on account of its being the principal
organ of taste; for the taste corresponds to, and thence signifies,
such affection.
'. A dog represents, by correspondence, appetite and eager desire
-in a bad sense, concupiscence. Everyone may see, from all the
actions and manners of the animal, that eagerness of appetite and
desire, is the very life of a dog; it is modified in a great many
ways. in the innumerable varieties of the species, ye~ it obviously
constitutes the governing principle with them all. Waters, we
have' often shewn, signify truths, and to lap them with the tongue
like a dog, signifies to appetite truths and seek. them with eager
desire. Thus, men who lap water out of their hand with their
tongue like a dog, signify those who appetite truths, or who, from
some natural affection, are eager to know truths, These then were
the proper persons to be led against
the Midianites, because the
Midianites denote such persons as, far from having an eager desire
to know truths from any natural affection, and being destitute of
all "spiritual affection, give themselves no concern at all about
truths, care.nothing for them,-their natural affections, and thence
all their thoughts, being wholly engaged with frivolous pursuits and
vain amusements. And the number three hundred, though not,
when applied to a band of soldiers, a number of great amount, yet
signifies all the truths, in complete fulness, of the quality in ques 
tion : forit arises from three multiplied by a hundred j and the
number three signifies what is full and complete, and has especial
r~ference to truths; and the number a hundred signifies fulness
and' completeness in the greatest degree. Three hundred men,
therefore, who lap water like a dog,' signify truths made active in
the mind, and in the lowest principles of the life, from an eager
natural affection; and such, therefore, as are proper and sufficient

to dissipate that indifference to truths represented by the Midian 
ites, and the engrossing attention to merely external, trifling, and
useless things and pleasures in which such indifference has its
origin.

to be readily apprehended and are as difficult

These, brethren, certainly are arcana of so deep a nature, as
not
to be ex 
plained in a manner adequate to the apprehension of others. And
perhaps some may think-all will think who are of the Midianitish
character-s-who give themselves no concern about divine truths
because their minds are always occupied with trifling things, 
It is no small use, if the ad 
What is the use of knowing them?
vantage we derive from it is only that, of possessing a conviction
that there is a spiritual sense in the Word of God, and thus being
enabled to think of it, even as to its, in the letter, most seemingly
unaccountable parts, with the reverence due to its most holy and
essentially divine nature. But we cannot have any just idea of
any portion of the spiritual sense of the Word of God, without
feeling sensible that however abstract and abstruse, to our external
mode of vie-wing things) it may appear, all that it contains, while
opening to the understanding the sublimest contemplations, has
an equal tendency to purify the affections and produce goodness
of life. When, in the case before us, we obtain some idea of the
temptation represented by the invasion of Israel by the Midianites,
and of the eternal ruin that must ensue if the principles repre 
sentedby them are allowed finally to prevail; and when we see
that nothing can liberate the mind from the fatal unconcern about
divine truths and spiritual
things in general, which is hereby
truths kindled and
signified, but such an ardent appetite for
fostered in the mind in fulness and sufficiency, as is represented
by the three hundred Israelites who lapped water with their tongue
like a dog, how earnest should we be to have such a desire kindled
in ourselves, separated from all that would impede its operation, and
made efficient to the casting out of all supreme regard to low and
worldly things, all disorderly occupation of the mind, and con 
suming of our time in idle pursuits and pleasures.
Then, giving
our supreme regard to the things of eternity, we may prevail over
every evil and false tendency of our nature,-over all the snares
of the world and the arts of our spiritual enemies; and, ascribing
all to the power and mercy of the Lord, we shall obtain a safe and
everlasting inheritance in the heavenly Canaan above.

12

SERJ\10N XVI.

Judges vii. 9-14.
" And it came to pass the same night, that the L01'd said unto him,
Arise, get thee down unto the host: for I have delivered it into
thy hand. But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phural: thy
servant down to the host,ttnd thou shalt hear what they say; and
afterwards shall thy hands be strengthened to go doum unto the
host. And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children
of the east lay along in the valley like grasshoppe'J's for multitude;
and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea-side
for multitude. And when Gideon uias come, behold,
there was a
man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed
a dream . and lo, a cake of barley-bread tumbled into the host of
Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it, and overturned it,
that the tent lay along. And his fellow answered and said, This
is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man
of Israel:
(for) into his hand hath God delivered Midian and all
the host."

IT is impossible to read the holy Word with any degree of appre 
hension of its interior contents, as brought to light for the edifica 
fion of the New Church, called the New Jerusalem, and at
the
same time to recollect what are the views commonly entertained
respecting the most important doctrines of religion, without being
struck with the widely different nature of the view which thence
arises on the subject of Christian regeneration. The doctrine of
the present day on this subject, as understood by those who make
most profession of experimental religion, is,
that regeneration is
the work of a moment; that at some period or other in the life of
all who are saved,-sometimes even in childhood, and sometimes
not till the bed of deatb,-a work of divine grace is miraculously
wrought, by which the sinner is suddenly gifted with faith in the
efficacy and merits of the Saviour's death, and is enabled to believe
with full persuasion that He died for him; when it is supposed
that all his sins are at once blotted out, that he is instantly re ..
garded as holy in the sight of God, and that, should he die in 
stantly, even though this might be at the gallows, his soul would

.

[Serm, xvi.]

Sermons an Judges.

135

be at once received to eternal glory. This then is what is com 
monly understood to be regeneration. The church of England
indeed,-that is, that part of its ministers and members who do
not assume to themselves exclusively the name of evangelical,-  
seeing the inconsistency of this notion of regeneration, and yet not
being able to form a better, get over the matter by affirming, that
regeneration is nothing distinct from baptism, or if it is, that at
any rate it is inseparable from baptism, and is conferred by it.
Thus though the two views of the subject are as different from
each other as possible, they still agree in this; that they both
proceed upon the supposition that regeneration is an instantaneous
work.
It is indeed true, that to account for the vicissitudes of state
which even they who have been regenerated according to their
plan, afterwards experience, and for the want of the fruits of holi 
ness too often apparent in them, some have inv~nted another pro 
cess, which they call sanctification, and hold to be quite distinct
from regeneration; contending, that although man is regenerated
at once, and is from that moment accounted holy in the sight of
God, yet he will never become so really holy in this life, but that
the old man will at times be very conspicuous: however they main 
tain that he begins to grow holy from that moment, and the pro 
cess by which he becomes so, they term sanctification.

No,v it may appear, as if these two processes together amounted
to much the same as what we call in one word regeneration: and
if they really did so, it would not be worth while to dispute for a
word, and we might as well conform to the common phraseology,
and allow sanctification to be a separate thing from regeneration.
But two insurmountable impediments stand in the way. The first
is,
that the sanctification commonly talked of, really amounts to
nothing, having only been introduced to render less perceptible
the contrariety between their main doctrine of instantaneous justi..
fication and the Holy Word: for when it is contended that by the
act of regeneration as understood by them, man is at once made
holy in the sight of God, so completely,
that though he may be
suffering for the most atrocious crimes at the gibbet, he passes at
once to eternal glory; it is evident that they can themselves regard
their sanctification as of little value, if, where most wanted, it can
so easily be dispensed with, A second obstacle to the adopting of
this representation is,
that nothing at all similar to the regenera 
tion thus supposed is to be found in the real regeneration described
in the doctrines of the New Church, For the false and instan 
taneous regeneration of which ,ve have been speaking, is nothing

136

Sermons on Judqes.

[Serm,

but a suddenly conceived persuasion that the Saviour died for us
individually,-that the punishment of our sins, that is, the punish 
ment due to us for the identical sins we have committed, was en 
dured by him,' and that his righteousness is imputed to. us in
exchange. Thus it is, that while the profes.sing church r~tall~s the
names of the great subjects which enter Into the constitution of
religion, she lays out of sight the things which those llames. imply,
and, like the church of Sardis, while she retains a name to live, she
is dead. Nothing whatever respecting such regeneration and such
sanctification is to be found in the New Testament, either in the
gospels or in the writings of. the apostles; and certainly no sanc 
tion to such views can be drawn from the Old Testament. We
read indeed of those who before were in ignorance, being converted
to the knowledge and acknowledgment of the Lord; but never is
this called regeneration or being born again. On the contrary, the
progressive nature of real regeneration is plai~ly indicated by. the
Lord when He says, Ye that have/ollowed Me In the regeneration ,
implying, what in general is wholly lost sigh~ of, that He. hims elf
underwent a process answering to regeneration, and which con 
sisted in effecting the glorification of his Humanity, and that the
regeneration of man consists in his undergoing .a process similar in
kind though infinitely inferior in degree, by which he from natural
becomes spiritual; and that both processes are effected by gradual
and successive steps.

What we have now advanced must have been amply apparent
from the discourses we have been for some time engaged in de 
livering from this book of Judges, if the views we have offered of
the spiritual import of the various transactions recorded, be allowed
to be founded in the truth. We see from hence most clearly, that
regeneration consists of a great number of distinct operations, not
one of which even can be performed in a moment: for we see, that
if the conflicts of the Israelites with the nations that oppressed
them be each of them considered, as is highly reasonable, as re 
presenting distinct temptations, every one o~ which must mark .the
opening and completion of a distinct stage In the regenerate life ,
then each of these again is subdivided into minuter divisions, and
·passes through distinct steps to its termination, and ~hus the whole
process of regeneration is a series of orderly progreSSion. So wo~­
derful is the order observed in all
the divine operations! As In
natural things, in the production of vegetables or animals, nothing
arrives at maturity in a moment; so must it be in that far more
the formation of a spiritual
important and wonderful operation,

\

xvi.]

Chap. vii. 9-14.

137

man, as it may be called, within the natural; or the new formation
of man as to his spiritual part, so that 11e may be qualified to live
in the regions of eternal glory. How desirous ought we to be to
co-operate with the Lord in .this great work ;-that is, to suffer
him to accomplish it in us and for us; for this is all that our co 
operation amounts to. Our co-operation consists in our desisting
from evils in practice, and from cherishing them in our thoughts,
to which end it is necessary that we should frequently explore the
state of our affections, to discover on what
they are set, and what
actions we should do if restraints arising from external considera 
tions were removed. But the inward seat of our evils lies deeper
than we could explore, were it not that they develope themselves
by their effects in that region of the mind that comes within o~r
inspection: the work then of purifying this inward.seat of them IS
within the reach of divine power alone: and this the Lord does do
and will do, provided we do not maintain them in their empire by
refusinz to check them in their outward manifestations.

b

•

,

t>

These inward operations, then, of which only some part IS per-
ceived by man in an obscure and general manner, are the subjects
which are described in the portion of the 110ly Word which we
have for some time been contemplating.
This history of Gideon
is particularly remarkable for the extent of detail with which it is
related, and for the numerous very singular things of which the
historical circumstances consist; to notice all of which would re 
quire, not four or five, but many discourses. Thus in the verses
preceding our text is described how Gideon's army was reduced from
more than thirty thousand to three hundred men) to guard against
the danger of their assuming the merit of their expected victory
over the Midianites to themselves: the three hundred men who
were allowed to remain being selected because, on going to the
water, they did not go down on their knees to drink, but lapped
the water out of their hands with their tongues like a dog; by
which was represented the eagerness of affection for tru~h, which
is the proper opposite to that indifference to every thing of a
spiritual nature, which characterizes the trifling principle re 
In some former discourses we
presented by the Midianites.
have considered the two first of the signs by which Gideon was
assured of the Lord's intention of delivering Israel by his instru..
mentality, and which consisted in the extraordinary mode in which
his offering was consumed, and in the miracle of the wet and dry
In our text another sign still is afforded him j- apparently
fleece.
to re-assure his courage after he had seen his army reduced to less

•

12*

138

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xvi.]

Chap. vii. 9-14.

139

than a hundredth part of the number which it consisted of at first,
and when he was to attack with a band of three hundred men, a
hostile army amounting one hundred and thirty-five thousand.

The general purport of the former signs which Gideon had
obtained from the Lord, applied, according to their spiritual sense,
tothe states of mind in the regenerating subject during the state
of temptation which is in general represented, was, as we have
seen, to indicate the presence from the Lord of such states as to
, goodness' and truth in the internal man, and thence in the external,
as were adequate to enter into conflict with, and overcome, the evil
lusts and false persuasions injected by the tempting powers into the
external of the mind, represented by the Midianites and their
associates. And the intention of the sign recorded in our text is,
to discover what is the state of the evil influence, and to shew that
having no longer the support it had in the man's own affections, it
the sphere of divine po\ver,
only requires to have directed upon it
resulting from the appropriation of celestial and spiritual
things
within, to be entirely eradicated, so as not to be able to lift up its
head any more. The fact is, that the power of the evils and falsities
which assault us in temptations is undermined, and in fact wholly
destroyed, when that operation takes place which is represented by
the. throwing down of the altar of Baal, and the cutting down of
the grove that was by it, and which we noticed in a former dis 
that is, when the evil that annoys us is removed from the
course:
supremacy which it exercised in the external man, so as no longer
to be the chief object of regard,-the god of our idolatry.
Inter 
mediate steps are still requisite, as all the intervening particulars
of this history evince, before the power thus obtained in the in 
teriors can be brought into contact with the evils themselves in the
exteriors: but the power of these is from that moment gone, and
their final removal is rendered easy and certain.

,In the case' before us, everything was prepared in the interiors,
by such a purification of the principles from which man was to
combat, that nothing mixed itself with them but what was of the
Lord alone,
for the certain removal of the whole of the tempting
influence: wherefore we read, "And it came to pass the same
night, ~ that
thee down
the Lord said to Gideon, Arise, get
unto the host,
into thy hand :" which
words imply a perception communicated from the Lord, but in
obscurity, denoted by its being at night, because: in the natural
or external man, whose perceptions even when from the Lord,
are called dreams and revelations by night, as being so much

I have delivered it

for

in them at

less clear than the perceptions of the internal man, which are
represented by discourse with angels of the Lord by day, or
open VISIon.
It is remarkable that Gideon is first commanded to
arise, and then to go down to the enemy's army; to indicate that
in all conflicts with evils and falsities man is first
to elevate his
mind to the Lord, signified by arise, and then from this elevation
to go down, with the state so acquired, into the region of the mind
possessed by the opposing influence, as by this means only he can
come into contact with that influence without entering into it or
being affected by it. This may be illustrated by a case that may
Suppose a number of dissolute persons to be
easily be conceived.
assembled in riotous enjoyment, indulging in the excesses to which
the lowest part of our nature is prone. Let another perSOll be in 
troduced among them who is in the love of the same evils" but who
that moment, being attentively engaged in
was not
business or in something that otherwise occupied his thoughts:
such a person,
though the moment before he were acting like a
sober moral man, would no sooner enter into the scene we are sup 
posing, than his latent love for the same indulgences would dis 
cover itself, and he would immediately enter into the spirit of the
J ust so would it be with
dissolute party and become one of them.
man if he were to be admitted into temptations without being pre 
viously sufficiently fortified with principles of goodness and truth
incapable of being influenced by the evils and
from the Lord,
falsities with which he would be brought into contact: these on
the contrary would enter into him, would excite the evils of his
nature, and he would presently feel himself as one with them. But
if he is furnished with heavenly principles within, and keeps these
in communication with their divine Source, by doing what
is im 
plied in the command Arise, he may then go down to the region of
the evil influence with perfect safety: just as a man of fixed prin 
ciples of religion and virtue might go without danger of contamina 
tion into a scene of dissipation, reprove the mad votaries of vice,
and assist, if necessary, in bringing them before the magistrate, to
be dealt with according to law.

The divine injunction proceeds to say, "But if thou fear to go
down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down to the host, and thou
shalt hear what
thy hands be
strengthened to go down to the host." These words shew how a
perception is communicated from a lower principle in the mind to
a higher-that it is not by an influx from the lower into the higher,
but by the higher descending with what is of itself into the lower,

they say: and afterwards shall

140

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

so as to become conscious of what
is there passing. This is the
reason that Gideon is commanded to take with him Phurah his
servant, in order that he might hear the Miclianites' conversation;
for servants always in the Word signify what
is of the external
man, which is or ought to be a servant to the internal; whence
Gideon's servant Phurah denotes what
is of the internal in the
external, by which as a")nedium the internal can know what is the
state of the external as to those things therein which are not of
the internal. The state of the opposing influence is then described
by its being said, that" the Midianites and the Amalekites and all
th~ children of the east lay along in the valley like grasshoppers
for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand
by the sea-side for multitude:" which words are much the same
as are used when the oppression by the Midianites is first men 
tioned, and which we briefly considered in one of our former dis.
cou,rses. They denote the total possession of the exterior region
of the mind by thoughts of a trifling and merely external nature
'
originating in the delights of the merely natural man.
'I'hus the
Midianites and their associates are compared to locusts, because
locusts denote the false apperceptions of the extreme of the natural
principle separated from every thing interior: and their camels
whi~h denote the common scientific principle of such false apper~
ceptions, are compared to the sand of the sea-shore, because this
denotes the most external and superficial intellectual views that
can be conceived, such as tend to no sort of use, but are barren as
the sand. of the sea.

..

.

-t the tent

C( And when Gideon was come, behold there was a man that told
a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream: and
10, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian, and
came unto a tent, and smote it that it fell, and overturned it, that
lay along. And his fellow answered and said, This is
nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash a luau of
Israel; for into his hand hath God delivered Midian and all his
host." These words denote the perception that is given to the evil,
when the time of their influence draws to an end, and they are
about to be cast into hell, that they can no longer be permitted to
continue their infestations of the good, or to have any further com 
munication with them. By a cake of barley bread is sianified a
principle of truth grounded in goodness in the external man ;-01"
the presence therein of a real heavenly grace in such a form as is
adapted to the genius and character of the external man. For as
there are various principles in the human mind, which are all in.

b

•

•

'

xvi.]

Chap. vii. 9-14.

141

eluded in the two general divisions which, in the language of theo 
introduced by the apostle Paul, are called the inward
logy, first
and outward, or internal and external man; so are there divine
graces communicated from the Lord adapted to replenish every
faculty of man: or, in other words, the divine things of which he
is the author appear under a different form according to the nature
and quality of the faculty which receives them.
'I'hus, for instance,
what in the internal man is a pure love of goodness and truth,
when it descends into the external man, especially into what has
before been occupied by the evils of man's nature, becomes a
strong zeal against all that is evil and false,-an ardent desire and
determination to cast
them out. And this appears to be what is
'vhere 
specifically meant by the cake of barley bread in our text:
fore in the interpretation of the dream by the .s~ldier's comrade,
the son 'of Joash, an
the cake is said to be the sword of Gideon,
Israelite, which is clearly the power of a principle of truth grounded
in good, flowing from the in ternal, wherefore it is called an Israelite
combating against the evils and false sentiments of which the
Midianites are representative. The operation of this principle is
represented in the dream by its coming to a tent, and smiting it,
so that the tent lay along, or was overthrown; which is a clear and
beautiful representation of the deprival of the evils which before
infested the mind, of all seat and abode therein. The Midianitish
tent is clearly that in the mind which is the receptacle and dwell 
ing place of the infesting and enslaving influence:
to overthrow
this, then, is to reject from within all
that affords to the evil its
harbour and habitation; which, when really done, the man is safe,
-not only delivered for the present, but, in consequence of the
real change that has taken place within him, secured from ever
being made the slave of that specific evil any more.

Again, then, we find in the circumstances of this history, matter
of most beautiful as well as pleasing and animating instruction.
They who are really intent upon their regeneration, shall, through
divine aid, be completely delivered,
though' by successive steps,
from the influence of every evil, be it what it may, which, by the
corruption of human nature, has, gained an abode in the heart.
But to this end, they must co-operate with the will and efforts of
the Almighty Deliverer. They must "arise ;"-elevate towards
him every thing which, by the instructions of his Word and the
operations of his Holy Spirit, they have received from him: They
must, then, in this state of conjunction with the Lord, go down to
the energy which is
the enemy's camp: they must apply with all

142

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm. xvi.]

given them' both to the exploration and the removal of the evils
which would hold them for ever in bondage: And the consequence
will be~ that the evils they oppose, having no longer a root in the
man's own affections, will become powerless j-the cake of barley
bread-the sword of Gideon, will fall
into the hostile camp, and
smite the tent and overthrow it :-the seat and harbour which evil
had in the mind, which was in the unregenerate affections, will be
entirely taken away;
and instead of continuing the slave of
Midian, the man will be devoted to the service of the Lord, whose
service is perfect freedom, for ever.

SERMON XVII.

Judges vii. 15-22.
" And it was (so), when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and
the interpretation thereof, that he worshiped, and returned to the
host of Israel, and said, Arise! for the Lord hath delivered into
your hand the host of Midian. And he divided the three Inuuired
men into three companies ; and he put a trumpet into every rnan's
hand, with empty pitchers, and lamps within the, pitchers. And
he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise :. and behold, when
to the outside of the camp, it shall be, that as 1 do, so
I C017ze
shall ye do. When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with
me, then blow ye the trumpets on every side of all
the camp, and
say, (The sword) of the Lord, and of Gideon! So Gideon and the
hundred men that were with him came unto the outside of the
camp in the beginning of the middle watch: and they had but
newly set the uiaich , and they blew the trumpets and brake the
pitchers that were in. their hands.
And the three companies blew
the trumpets, and brake the pitchers, and held the lamps in their
left hands, and the trumpets in their right hand to blow (withal):
and they cried, The sword of the Lord and of Gideon! And
they stood every mati in his place about the camp, And all the
host ran, and cried, and fled.
And the three hundred blew
the trumpets, and the Lord set every man's sword against his
fellow, even throughout all
the host. And the host fled to Beth 
shittah. in Zererath, and to the border of Abel-meholali, unto
Tabbath."

SUCH is the account of the extraordinary conclusion of the op 
pression of Israel by the Midianites and their delivery by Gideon,
every step of which is marked by such wonderful particulars.
When I say, the conclusion of the history, I mean as to the decisive
blow by which the deliverance was effected: for another chapter is
filled with the details of the manner in which Gideon followed up
his victory, which he did with such vigour and prudence as
rendered the victory complete indeed, not a man of the immense
multitude of the hostile forces making his escape, and the conse 
quences being so decisive, that, as is declared towards the end of

144

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

the next chapter, "Midian was subdued before the children of
'I'he manner
Israel,so that they lifted up their heads no more."
in which the rout of the Midianites was brought to pass, as related
in the passage we have read, was equally extraordinary with the
miraculous events which preceded and led to it; and the conclu 
sion was worthy of the wonders by which it was brought about.

As we have made in our former discourses such general remarks
as the occurrences of the history seemed naturally to give rise to,
we will now without further preface offer a brief explanation of the
principal circumstances related in the passage at present before us.
It begins with stating, that when Gideon heard the telling of
the dream, and the interpretation thereof, he worshiped, and re 
turned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise! for the Lord hath
delivered into your hand the host of Midian. The dream which
gave such confidence to Gideon and was that which he heard re 
lated by the Midianitish soldier, who dreamed that a cake of barley
bread fell into the camp of the Midianites, and smote a tent, that
it fell; which was interpreted by his comrade to be the conquering
sword of Gideon. This, with the encouragement it gave to Gideon,
represented the arrival of a state, in which the evil suggestions in 
fused in states of temptation into the external of the mind, are
perceived, both by the tempting spirits and the party they infect,
in consequence of their having no longer a
to be without power,
connexion as before with man's interiors-being no longer allied
with a corrupt affection cherished by the man himself; and when
also they are unable to resist the force of a directly contrary prin 
ciple of goodness and truth descending from within and expelling
It is evident
them from their usurped establishment in the mind.
from the whole of the history, that this state is brought about by
the divine operations of the Lord, received and submitted to by
man; and when it is produced, and not before, the actual conflict
takes place, which terminates in the removal of the infesting in 
fluence. A perception in the interiors of the mind that SUCll a
state had arrived, is denoted then by its being said, "when Gideon
heard the' telling of the dream and the interpretation thereof:"
the acknowledgment that it is the Lord's divine power and opera 
is meant by its being said thereon,
tions by which it is produced,
~'that he worshiped:" and an elevation of state in consequence
throughout the whole of the mind, implying an acknowledgment
its power is from the Lord, with a direction of all its
that all
powers, under thiaacknowledgment, with full confidence,
to the
removal of the infesting influence, and of every thing still remain-

xvii.]

Chap. vii. 15-22.

145

ing that gives it a hold upon us, is conveyed in the words of Gideon
to his forces, (C Arise! for the Lord hath delivered into your hand
the host of Midian."

We have observed, that the arrival of a state in which the tempt 
ing or infesting influence has lost its power, and thereby admits of
is the result entirely of the divine
being, with security, removed,
operations of the Lord, and that, until its arrival, deliverance from
the oppression of our spiritual enemies cannot be experienced: but
though this is a.certain fact, we should greatly pervert it if we were
. to draw from it any excuse for submitting or yielding to such op 
pression, or for being remiss in our efforts to obtain deliverance.
'Yhich fully
There arc luauy histories in the V'Tord, beside this,
shew, that until a proper state is prepared, it is impo~sib]e to enter
into the crisis of spiritual conflict, and that mischief results from
bringing on this crisis without submitting to the preparat?ry states;
but there is no passage which implies that it does not depend upon
ourselves whether these preparatory states shall take place or not,
and whether they shall be greatly protracted or not, in their suc 
cession. As before intimated, though lunch, and indeed the whole
of our regeneration, is effected by the Lord alone, yet man's sub.
mission to, and reception of, those operations, is necessary to their
taking effect.
In temptations, the chief thing by which man can
accelerate their happy termination, is by cultivating a disposition
to search out in himself, and a willingness to part with, whatever
it is that furnishes a base for the infernal influence to act upon:
for Divine Omnipotence itself cannot remove any evil from man,
In proportion then as
till man beC0111eS truly willing to let it go.
man cultivates a sincere willingness to submit his will to the Lord's
in all things, and to give up all undue attachments, whether it be
to things absolutely evil, or which only are so when made the ob.
jects of too high a regard, so that the love of them holds a place
which is only due to loves of a higher order ;-so far as man does
this the Lord advances all
the requisite states of preparation, and
hastens the production of the state of which we have been speak 
'I'he infesting influences that deprive man of the manifest
ing.
perception of delight in divine things, with the infernals that in 
ject them, being deprived of their power, are then ready to yield
and depart, as soon as the sphere of the heavenly affections and
truths which have been inseminated, and which have been gaining
to act directly upon them. The man 
strength within, is brought
ner in which this is done,
is described in what we have now to
consider.

13

146

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xvii.]

Chap. vii. 15-22.

Gideon then "divided the three hundred men into three com 
panies ; and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty
pitchers, and lamps (or torches) within the pitchers." We have
seen in a former discourse,
that the three hundred men to which
Gideon's army was reduced, denote all such affections of goodness
and perceptions of truth in the mind of man, as are wholly of the
Lord, and which look: to Him alone, undefiled by any contamina 
tions, from man's own selfhood-all his motives, in short, and prin 
ciples of action, that are altogether uninfluenced by any interested
and selfish ends. These three hundred men are now divided into
three companies, to denote the distinct arrangement of all heavenly
graces, whether belonging to the order of goodness or of truth,
according 'to the three degrees into which the mind of man is
divided; in the third or in most of which are all things that refer
to the ends proposed by him, and which are of the will; in the
second or middle are all
things that refer to the means contrived
by him for bringing his ends into effects, and which belong to the
understanding, and in the first or Iowest are all things that refer
to conclusions or determinations to action, and which stand per 
pertually ready to embody themselves in acts whenever opportunity
presents itself, and these are of the will and understanding in con 
junction. There can be nothing whatever in the mind but what
has relation to one or other of these three orders of principles:
they include the whole that a man can be or that he can mentally
the number three, when mentioned
possess: and on this account
in the Word, always signifies what is full and complete.
It is Oll
account of this its signification, that the number three has in all
ages been supposed by many to possess some hidden charm or
virtue; as it really did possess under the Jewish dispensation, when
representatives of divine appointment were attended with power.
the men by whom Gideon was to rout
the J\fidianites, were exactly three hundred, and why these were
divided into three companies. Had by any accident the number
been different, or the companies otherwise divided, the miraculous
effect which ensued on their blowing their trumpets and breaking
their pitchers would not have occurred: for it is a great mistake
to suppose that even miracles are wrought, and that by the Lord
himself, at random, and without
the use of any means whatever:
the means He uses are, the disposal 'of things according to corres 
pondences, or according to the order in which the spiritual world
flows into the natural. But to explain this fully would require a .
discourse to itself: I only here mention it as necessary_ to enable

, This was the reason that

us to discern the reason, why so many seemingly unimportant par 
ticulars were necessary to produce that panic in the Midianitish
army, that set
them upon destroying each other. Without some
knowledge respecting the nature of the correspondence between
spiritual
things and natural,-or at least respecting the existence
of such a correspondence, all
that is related respecting the mode
by which Gideon's army was reduced to a small number, which
number was exactly three hundred,-the dream which Gideon
heard-the mode in which he directed his little band to shew
themselves to the Midianites,-must appear like idle mummery,
and the sincerest believer in the Scriptures, who confines his ac 
knowledgment of them to the literal sense alone, must think in
his heart that the miraculous effect which ensued might have been
as easily produced in a much more summary manner.
So that
nothing but the views brought to light in the doctrines of the New
Jerusalem Church, call satisfactorily clear up such passages as these
even as to their literal sense; for no other views can furnish us
'with a reason why so luuny minute particulars were necessary to
'be observed, before the wall of Jericho, for instance, could be made
miraculously to fall, and before the miraculous rout of the Midian 
ites could take place.

I mention the case of tho falling down of the wall of Jericho,
because there was some similarity between the means employed to
accomplish it, and the means resorted to by Gideon and his bands
to confound the Midianites. The similarity consists in this, that
there was in both instances a sounding of trumpets, and a shout 
ing; though in the case of Jericho the trumpets were sounded only
by the priests, and the shout uttered by the people was simply a
shout without the use of words; whereas in the case before us all
the people blew trumpets, and the shout which they uttered was
the distinct cry, "The sword of the Lord and of Gideon." The
sounding of trumpets was indeed directed to be used on all occa 
sions, by one of the laws of Moses,
the conflicts between the
Israelites and their enemies:
the reason of course was, on account
of the spiritual thing to which the sound of a trumpet corresponds,
It is, no doubt, from the same
and which it therefore represents.
cause, that the trumpet has been appropriated to the use of war
among all nations in all ages.
It is true that the sound of it is
extremely animating and exciting to the persons in whose behalf
it is sounded, and has equally a tendency to appal and fill with
dismay the ranks of the enemy; and these are the only causes
commonly thought of for its use: it however is a certain fact that

ill

148

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xvii.J

C/lap. vii. 15-22. _

149

it derives these properties from a spiritual cause j or because it
corresponds to something which has a tendency to give encourage 
ment to the subjects of the Lord's kingdom in their conflicts with
their .spiritual adversaries, and to fill the latter with dread, causing
them to seek refuge from its terrible effects on them in the caverns
of despair. What it corresponds to then is, the revelation from
the Lord through heaven of divine 'I'ruth of a celestial order, or,
such as is closely united with divine Good, and the influx thereof
with resistless power from the interiors into the exteriors. The
sphere of this has such an effect on the evil, who have nothing
answering thereto in themselves, that they are filled by it with
anguish. and despair,-have all the perceptions of their minds dis 
turbed and thrown into confusion, the incoherence of their own
perverted principles becoming manifest even to themselves, s"'o that
theyimmediately act like persons distracted, and are ready to flee
'any where to escape from its annoying presence.

is the whole of the Iiteral sense of the Word.

But in the present case another and a more singular measure was
. adopted to increase the confusion of the enerny : the Israelites
carried empty pitchers in which were concealed lamps or torches:
and at the same time that they sounded the trumpets, they broke the
pitchers and displayed the lights to the astonished and terrified foe.
The reason of this was, because pitchers, being vessels designed for
the holding of water, correspond to what the New Church writings
call scientifics, by which term are not meant deep attainments in
the world calls science, but merely things that are known
what
without being much understood. Thus this history of Gideon,
re 
garded as to its literal sense alone, is a collection of scientifics; and
so in fact
The
knowledge of such things in the memory, is denoted in the Holy
Word by pitchers and all vessels for containing Iiq uids; and thus
the literal sense of the Word itself is also figured by these emblcms.
is the Word as to its merest shell or
An empty pitcher, then,
husk; or its literal sense viewed by itself, without any reference to
to light by genuine
the genuine truths it contains as brought
doctrine, or by an acquaintance with its spiritual sense.
To the
Word thus closed, they who are in evils and falsities, and even in 
fernal spirits themselves, have no objection, as there is nothipg
herein of sufficient power to disturb them in their falsities and
evils; on the contrary, they can make the Word in this state seem.
to favour their views, by dwelling on those parts of it which are
written according to mere appearances, and straining those parts
in which genuine truths are plainly expressed in the letter) so as to

is evident

from the manner

make them seem to agree with the former, and thus falsifying the
whole. There was nothing, then, in the mere empty pitchers capable
of giving any alarm to the Midianites:
to render the letter of the
Word efficient for confounding those who are in evils and falsities,
it must be seen in connection with its internal contents-thus the
genuine truth it contains must be brought forth and manifested,
and this must be shewn to be the genuine doctrine of the letter
itself.
This then was represented by Gideon and his companions
breaking the pitchers and displaying the lights concealed within
them. That to break signifies to remove the shell of the letter and
discover the genuine meaning,
in
which the interpreting of the Midianitish soldier's dream is ex 
pressed in the original, whiell our translators thought so important
that they have given it in the margin; according ;to which we find,
C( when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and
that it is said,
the breaking thereof :" -a plain proof that, in the language of in 
spiration, to break a covering for the sake of disclosing what
it
covers, denotes to unfold the enigmatical and obscure form in
which divine truth appears in the letter of the Word, and to dis 
cover the genuine truth and wisdom contained within.
In the in 
ternal sense of the Word, and in the genuine doctrine of the church,
which is framed indeed from the literal sense of the VVord, but
from the literal sense understood,-that is, seen in connexion with
the internal sense, divine truth is seen in the light; and this, as
being incapable of being perverted by the evil so as to confirm their
false persuasions, is seen by them as something directly contrary
to them, fills them with alarm, and throws them and all
their
tissues of false reasonings into inextricable confusion. This, then,
is what is in general meant by the lamps or torches concealed in
the pitchers, and by the breaking of the pitchers to display them
to the enemy.

in 
In this circumstance, then, we have an example of the fact
sisted on in the doctrines of the New Jerusalem Church, that in
theconfiicts of temptation man must combat by and with the
truths of the Holy Word; and the reason assigned is, because,
after all, it is the Lord alone that fights and conquers for man in
temptations, wherefore nothing is valid to oppose the infernal in 
fluence but that in which the Lord Himself is, and the Lord is
present with man in the truths of His own Word known and
acknowledged by man.
In these, indeed, He Himself is in all His
divine fulness; wherefore, when these are connected in man's
mind with the Lord, by being sincerely acknowledged and loved,

13*

150

Sermons on Judges.

[Serul.

xvii.]

Chap. vii. 15-22.

151

principle of genuine truth grounded in goodness is opened in the
mind, accompanied with such a collection of truths and graces as
are of the Lord alone, undefiled by any mixture with the selfhood
Such a state we must strive to attain; and the only way
of man.
to attain it is, by submitting all our affections,
thoughts, and
actions to the government of the Lord and his Holy Word; putting
away from them everything, however naturally dear to us, which I-Ie
prohibits, ever turning from self and self-reliance, and learning
to follow and rely on the Lord.
So will the principles of truth
and goodness received in our souls from Him, be purified from
selfish mixture; and being thus connected with the Divine
all
the light of divine truth concealed within the shell of
Source,
the Holy Word in such histories as that. before us, will shine
with such splendour, and be applied with ~ such power,
that
all our spiritual enemies will flee before it, and we shall be es 
tablished in the Lord's kingdom, completely freed from the en 
thralling and infesting influence, for evermore.

and referred to the Lord their source, they possess a divine power
within them which no infernal agency. can long endure when
brought into immediate contact with them.
'I'hat combat in the
concluding crisis of temptation is carried on on the part of man
solely by truths from the Word, seen and acknowledged in their
genuine import, is plain from the account of the Lord's temptation
by the devil, in which every infernal suggestion was repelled by
Him by being opposed by a passage of the Holy Word, But that
to be effectual for this purpose the VVord must be 'Undel~8tood-that
it must be the light of it, not the mere ClnjJty pitcher, is evident
from the circumstance, that passages from the mere letter, per 
verted and misrepresented, were in a great measure the \veapons
with which the tempter carried on his assault: and the Lord's
defence consisted in detecting the misapplication, and retorting the
genuine sense, as conveyed in other passages, upon the would-be
destroyer,
This important doctrine, then, is conveyed in the cir 
cumstance, that the Israelites discomfited the Midianites by break 
.ing their pitchers and displaying their lights within.

it

Another remarkable truth which the passage before us brings to
light, is this; that after all
is not the Lord's divine truth that
destroys the wicked, but their own evil lusts and false persuasions.
All that the divine truth does when brought into immediate con 
tact with those who are iu such a state, is to discover that they are
in evil lusts and false persuasions, and that therefore they cannot
abide with those who are in goodness and truth; but what destroys
them are these infernal principles thernselYes. This is expressed
~by its being said that on the blowing of the trumpets, the breaking
of the pitchers, and the shouting by the Israelites;
the Lord set
every 'man's sword ·against his fellow throughout all the host; by
which is specifically meant, that these doctrines and principles of
life were such as destroy charity; which is the fellow or neighbour;
and that whosoever is confirmed therein is in a state of spiritual
death.

We see, then, brethren, from what has now been briefly and im-
. perfectly offered, of what importance it is to be enabled to perceive
the genuine light of divine truth within the outer covering of the
letter of the Holy Word, and what power, for the successful pro 
secution of our spiritual warfare, is thus imparted to the candidate
for a station in the heavenly Canaan. But it can only be ex 
ercised, and be made effectual, when Gideon possesses a band of
three hundred men, of tried fidelity, who fully obey the Word of
. the Lord, and unhesitatingly do as he commands: that is, when a

SERMON XVIII.

Judges xi. 30, 31.
ec And Jephihah. vowed a vow unto tile Lord, and said,If thou shalt
without fail deliver the children of Ammon into my hands, Then it
ehall he that whatsoever cometliforth. of the doors of nzy house to
meet me tohen. I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall
he. the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering."

WE have been engaged in some previous discourses, in an endea 
vour to give some insight into the spiritual meaning of the remark 
ahle histories contained in the book of Judges. We have touched
on the conflicts attending the final establishment of the several
tribes of Israel in their respective lots, with which the book com 
mences, and on the miseries attendant upon their disobedience to
the divine commands in not utterly expelling the idolatrous nations
from the country, and in imitating their idolatrous practices; par 
ticularly on the oppressions they successively suffered from the
Syrians or the inhabitants of Mesopotamia, from the Moabites,
from the Canaanites of Hazor, and from the Midianites, and on
their deliverances by the instrumentality of Othniel, Ehud, De 
borah and Barak, and Gideon. We intended in like manner to
have pursued our observations through the remainder of the history
of Gideon, and then to have proceeded to that of his degenerate,
the
illegitimate son, Abimelech; whence, slightly passing over
pacific judges, Tola and Jair, to have dwelt in a few discourses on
that of J ephthah; and so, again passing over the undistinguished
judges, Ibzan, Elan, and Abdon, to have concluded the series with
a" consideration of the principal circumstances in the wonderful
history of Samson.. Circumstances however render it necessary to
contract our course, and hasten to a conclusion.
I therefore pro 
ceed at once to the history of J ephthah, as the next most interest 
ing .part of the sacred narrative; and, I have selected the most
interesting circumstance in his history, usually known by the name
of Jephthah's rash vow: on the literal import of which I now pro 
pose to offer some remarks, reserving its spiritual signification for
another discourse.

There is no passage in the Holy Word which has been the sub 
Infidel writers,

ject of more controversy and discussion than this.

xviii.]

Chap. xi. 80, 31.

] 53

that J ephthah's daughter was certainly
assuming it to be a fact
offered as a burnt-sacrifice, have thought they have found a fair
occasion for railing against the divine Volume in which this is
narrated, and for denying the divine origin either of the Jewish or
of the Christian' religion, as containing, among the documents on
which they rest, a story so revolting to humanity. And expositors
of the Scriptures have themselves been greatly divided in opinion
as to the question, whether Jephthah's daughter was put to death
or only devoted to a life of pious celibacy. Both of these classes
of expositors have however, shewn,
think quite satisfactorily,
though abiding in the literal history alone, that there is here no
room for the scoffs of the infidel, let the fact as to her being put to
death or otherwise have been as it might. AlthJ)ugh our chief
object
instruction contained in the
representative histories of the Holy Word j and though, likewise,
after having examined the reasons urged by both classes of com 
mentators for their respective opinions, I have found it difficult to
arrive at a certain conclusion as to the real nature of the fact j yet
on a question so celebrated it will no doubt be expected that I
should offer some remarks.

is to discover the spiritual

I

It will first be necessary to detail the sequel of the history.
We find from the words which 'we have read as a text, that the
vow of Jephthah was a conditional one: he said to the Lord, "If
thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into IDy
hands, then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors
of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children
of Ammon, shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up for
a burnt-offering." The condition, it appears, was accepted; for he
defeated the Ammonites with a very great slaughter,
insomuch
that "they were subdued before the children of Israel."
The
narrative then proceeds, "And J ephthah came to Mizpeh, unto
his house: and behold, his daughter came out to meet him with
timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; besides her
he had neither son nor daughter. And it came to pass, when he
saw her, that he rent his clothes, •and said, Alas, my daughter !
thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that
trouble me: for I have opened my mouth to the- Lord, and I can 
not go back. And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast
opened thy mouth unto the Lord, do to me according to that
which has proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as the Lord
hath taken vengeance for
thee of thine enemies, even of the
children of Ammon. And she said unto her father, Let this thing

154

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xviii.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

155

be done unto me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and
I 'and my
down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity,
fellows. And he said, Go. And he sent her a,vay for two months.
And she went with her companions, and bewailed her virginity
upon the mountains. And it came to pass at
the end of two
months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her
according to, his vow which he had vowed."
The relation con 
cludes with saying, " And it was a custom in Israel, (that) the
daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of J ephthah
the Gileadite four days in a year."

If it were desirable to imitate the sty le of preaching that prevails
in many fashionable places of worship, which consists in describing
in a florid strain, natural objects or events, and in endeavouring to
move the natural feelings, by dwelling with affected pathos on all
such circumstances as will admit of such an appeal, there were
ample room for it in speaking upon this story. Looking simply at
the particulars of the narrative, and laying aside the consideration
of its being part of the Word of God, there certainly is in it much
that is calculated to interest our sympathy. What must have been
the feelings of the father, returning in all
the pride of triumph,
saluted every where with the acclamations of his fellow .. citizens,
who hail him as the deliverer of his country, when, hastening to
enjoy his honours in the bosom of his family, and expecting to
find the sweetest reward of his labours in the extatic congratula 
tions of the obj ects of his tenderest affection, he is at once plunged
from the pinnacle of happiness to the abyss of misery, by feeling
himself suddenly bereaved of the dearest of those objects; and this
by his own rash act 1 when the over eager desire of his beloved
daughter to welcome her victorious sire, makes her the first to rush
into his presence; whereby she becomes the subject of that vow of
sacrifice which he had inconsiderately uttered in a moment of great
anxiety, little thinking who was to be its victim! Well might he
utter the despair-fraught words, "Alas, my daughter! thou hast
brought me very low! thou art one of them that trouble me I"
Low indeed is he brought, and troubled indeed must he be: when,
instead of being at liberty to enjoy the caresses of his affectionate
child, to which he had just .before looked forward as the consumma 
tion of his felicity, he finds himself bound to requite her tenderness
with a grave! And a daughter so worthy of the fondest affection as
she proves herself to be ;-80 perfect a model of the purest pat 
riotism, the most generous filial
love! For how does she receive
the sentence of her doom which she hears so unexpectedly pro-

thine enemies, even of

nounced ? Does she fall into feminine lamentations? Does she
remonstrate with her father on the injustice and cruelty of her
fate? Does she use any entreaties to turn him from his purpose?
Nothing of the kind. Her country is rescued from its oppressors,
and her father is the honoured instrument by which the deliver 
' Having seen
ance is effected. This is happiness enough for her.
this, she is content
to die; proud, perhaps, of being the victim
whose promised sacrifice may have contributed to the desired re 
sult.
She said therefore, "My father! if thou hast opened thy
mouth unto the Lord, do to me according to that which hath pro 
ceded out of
thy mouth; forasmuch as the Lord. hath taken
the children of
vengeance for
thee of
Ammon." Certainly neither Greece nor Rome; with all
their
Leonidas and Decii, ever displayed an instance of sublimer self 
devotion than this of Jephthah's daughter. Had it occurred among
those boasting people,
instead of the plain unvarnished tale of the
sacred historian, we should have had it pressed on our admira 
tion with all
the pomp of eloquence. The greatest of orators
and poets would have made it the theme of perpetual descant:
and we should thus have learned from our school-boy days to
NOl~ would the steady resolution of
speak of it with wonder.
Jephthah have passed unpraised.
Indeed it cannot be doubted,
had but he and his daughter been heathens, that the very men
who now find in the transaction, nothing but a handle for vilifying
the Scriptures, would then have extolled the whole as exhibiting
the finest example of the most noble constancy,
the most dis 
The mistaken views under which it could be
interested virtue.
thought that such a vow and such a fulfilment of it could be ac-
~ ceptable to the Divine Being, would have been spoken of as merit 
ing our pity, not our contempt: and the immovable regard to
principle, which in the father put in execution, and ill the daughter
cheerfully submitted to, so deplorable a catastrophe, would have
been view.ed as atoning for any error of judgment in forming that
pfinciple, and as exalting those who were capable of it to the
highest rank alnong the worfhies who have shed a lustre on the
human race

"Such are some of. the reflections which might naturally arise in'
our minds, on contemplating this history as to its literal sense
alone: and certainly from this view of it alone, may be drawn a
highly useful lesson for our instruction: for if a mistaken sense of
duty could prompt these ancient Israelites to such a heart-rending
mode of exhibiting their willingness to obey; if, under erroneous

156

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

'views. of. the nature. of th.e Divine Being, they could persevere, in
the. discharge of an inconsiderate vow, to the completion of an act
which must be as far from being agreeable to the Lord as to them 
selves :-how ought we, who know what his beneficent nature
re~lly is, and what kind of service he requires, to render to Him
this our "reasonable service," by striving daily to be more and
more conformed to his will, which is the same thing as to become
assimilated to his nature; and which we know,
if it redounds to
His glory, as the sale author of every thing good that can abide in
us or proceed from us, redounds also to our own advantaae because
it is the only means by which we can be qualified for the enjoy 
ment of real happiness!

that Jephthah's daughter was actually put

The rem.a:ks we have hitherto offered have gone chiefly upon
to
the SUppOSItIon,
that she was only consecrated
death : up~n the other hypothesis,
to t~e service of ~he ~abernacle and a life of celibacy, they would
requIre s~m? modification , t~?ugh even this would be a sufficiently
heavy affliction to an Lsraelitish parent who had no other child j
nor would it be. much less so to a female of that nation; amongst
whom to remained unmarried, or if married to remain without
children, was considered as the greatest of calamities. We are
now, however, to state the grounds for these two opinions.

Certainly if we look simply at the history as it stands, we shall
find it difficult to suppose that the affair had any other termination
than what the terms of the vow so plainly express: and though in
the conclusion, the sacrifice of the young woman is not explicitly
.detailed, yet this seems included in the assertion, that "her father
did unto her according to his Vo\V which he had vowed." This
accordingly is the popular opinion on the subject, or of those who,
without much study, draw their sentiments from our version of the
.Bible alone. But, as before intimated, the revilers of Revelation
have eagerly laid hold of this pretence for their objections, con 
tending that the God of Jews and Christians is thus represented as
a God who is pleased with human sacrifices: and as reason clearly
sees that these must be abhorrent
to the nature of the true God
they infer that the true God and the God of Jews and Christians
are not the same; of course, that those religions cannot be true.
We shall see presently that even if we abide in the literal sense
only, and give it the harshest interpretation, there still willhe no
room for this inference, which only argues ignorance on the part
of those who make it: but it has helped to make commentators on
the Scriptures very anxious to find room for understanding the

xviii.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

157

relation in a different manner.
Indeed the Jews themselves have
led the \fay in giving a different interpretation; and it is after some
of their Rab bies that Inany Christian expositors have adopted the
rendering given in the margin of the English Bible; where, in the
vow itself,
instead of the words "whatsoeyer cometh forth of the
doors of Iny house, &c" shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer
it up for a burnt-offering," we find, "whatsoever cometh forth of
my house-shall surely be the Lord's, or I will offer it up for a
burnt-offering j"-the disjunctive particle or being used instead of
the copulative and: and the meaning of J ephthah is supposed to
be, that whatever carne out of his house, if a human being, should
be consecrated to the Lord, and employed in some ministration in
his tabernacle, and if a clean beast, should be sacrificed. Accord 
ingly they conclude that the former was the fate of Jephthah's
daughter; ,in agreement with which view, for the word lament, in
the last verse, they substitute to talk with, as our version also aives
in the margin; so that instead of reading " the daughters of Israel
went yearly to lament the daughter of J ephthah," they ·would have
"the daughters of Israel went yearly to talk with the daughter of
J'ephthah," This latter alteration, I believe) (as far as I have been
able to search into it,)
the Hebrew original will very well admit,
It is also certain, that the Hebrew particle which gellerally acts as
the copulative conjunction, sometimes bears a disjunctive sense,
and instead of meaning and must be translated or: but I certainly
do think it has been fully proved, that Jephthah's YOW is not one
of the passages which will properly admit of the latter signification,
but that this is one of the cases in which, according to the universal
rules of the language, the signification of and must be retained.

These are the chief critical points on which the advocates of the
opinion that J ephthah's daughter was not put to death, found their
belief j but they also support it by arguments of considerable weizht
of a different nature.
'rhus, they observe, that nothing was more
strictly prohibited by the laws of Moses than the offerina of human
sacrifices, either to false gods. or to Jehovah, and that therefore
such an abomination could never "have been contemplated, much
less practised by an Israelitish general who was especially assisted
by Divine Providence to deliver .his country: that had he never 
theless been ignorant enough to wish to do so, it was again com 
manded by the Levitical
law that sacrifices should nowhere be
offered but before the tabernacle, and by no person but the priests;
and that certainly no priest could be found to offer such a sacrifice
especially at the tabernacle, where he was under the immediate in-

lit

158

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xviii.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

159

'

spection of the high priest, who also frequently officiated himself.
And that females were employed about the tabernacle in works
.suited to their sex, is evident, it is urged, from the Mic1ianitish
female captives taken in war in the time of Moses, (N urn. xxxi.) of
~hom, as of the rest of the spoil, a portion amounting to thirty-tw 0
In number, was set aside for an offering to the Lord: this also it
.
IS stated, further appears from the last of Leviticua, where the law
is given relating to the making of singular or personal vows, which
mention both males and females.
These are the chief considera 
tions urged in favour of the opinion that J ephthalr's daughter was
not actually sacrificed: and certainly they carry so much appear 
ance of probability, that we cannot be surprised if they were in
general, and for a long time, deemed conclusive.
In support, however, of the popular notion,

that this devoted
female was really put to death, arguments not less strong have
been urged by the most learned modern writers. We have already
seen that the plain meaning of the literal account is much more
consistent with this opinion than with the other.
The writers
alluded to found their chief argument on the fact, that it never
entered into the head of any Israelite to look upon a state of sinale
life, either in male or female, as more pleasing to the Lord than a
state of marriage, and that, on the contrary, all
their notions of
that men who were
the subject ran decidedly the other \vay;
dedicated to the service of the Lord, or of the tabernacle, did not
on that account remain single, is evident from the cases of Samson
and Samuel, who were devoted in this WRy from their birth, and
who both were married; whence it is inferred that the case would be
the same with females '" ho might be similarly devoted.
That
human sacrifices were strictly prohibited by the Levitical law, as
also; the slaying of any sacrifices by any but the priest, or any
where but before the tabernacle, is indeed certain; but that many
irregularities took place in all
these respects is well known, and
even that the Israelites often shewed a monstrous propensity to
imitate the Canaanites in sacrificing their children j whence it is
argued that J ephthah was more likely to adopt this course with his
daughter, being a thing of which he had seen or heard of many
examples, than to make her a nun, of which it is supposed he could
have seen no example.
It is further contended that he was just
the sort of man likely, through ignorance, to fall into such errors;
the beginning of the chapter, the son of a
being, as is re~ted at
stra~ge woman, and on that account driven in his youth by his
relations out of the country, whence he resorted for subsistence in

it

a foreign land, to the desperate expedient of becoming the cap 
tain of a band of freebooters ;-situations these which certainly
were not likely to introduce him to a correct knowledge of the
laws of Moses: and though there is no reason to suppose that he
is probable enough that he worshiped
ever was an idolator,
Jehovah much in the same way as the idolatrous people among
whom he dwelt worshiped their deities. Besides
the laud of
Gilead, of which J ephthah was a native, was at all times a country
in which the greatest irregularities in the observance of the strict
it being a country situated on the other
Mosaic law prevailed;
side of Jordan, at the greatest distance from the seat of the Taber 
nacle, the great centre of the Israelitish laws and worship, That
J ephthah's knowledge of the Mosaic law was very scanty indeed,
is certainly evident from his putting his vow in execution in any
to put his
,vay whatever.
daughter to death, he shewed himself ignorant of the laws which
prescribe that only certain clean beasts and birds, and but a few
kinds of them, should be offered in sacrifice, whilst, for this purpose,
a human being was considered as of all things the most unclean,
so to burn human bones upon an altar was a method resorted to
as defiling it in such a manner, that it never could be used for a
sacred purpose any more ; and if he conceived himself bound by
his vow, to devote his daughter to the service of the tabernacle
without being able to revoke it, as it is plain he did by his saying:
C( I have opened my mouth to the Lord, and I cannot go back;"
he displayed equal ignorance; as there is an express statute in the
last of Leviticus, empowering the person who might have made
such a vow to redeem the devoted party for a sum of money_

If he conceived himself bound by it

All the circumstances,

then, considered, many things might be
~egarded as pardonable in a mall so uninformed as J ephthah, which,
In a person who had better opportunities of information would be
utterly inexcusable.

)

But, as before intimated, even if it were certain, as it appears
probable, that J ephthah did sacrifice his daughter, they who think
this affords any ground of reproach against the divine origin uf the
Israelitish or Christian dispensations, only prove their own ignor 
ance by the assertion.
If indeed the laws of Moses gave any sanc 
tion to the practice of offering human sacrifices, and Jephthah only
acted in conformity with the laws, then indeed the objectionwould
the Levitical laws
be well-founded; but if, as already observed,
represented such sacrifices as in the highest degree offensive to
God, and J ephthah, supposing he offered one, did it) not in obedi-

160

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xviii.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

161

Word of God from objections, and to evince that, whatever might
have been the merits or demerits of J ephthah's behaviour, nothing
that was wrong in it was imputable to a Divine origin, or to an
alleged divine authority. But looking at the transaction as pro 
ceeding from a man little informed on divine subjects, and acting
from notions universally prevalent
in those times, we see much
to admire, and much that, it is easy to believe, might be made the
ultimate basis of truly divine instruction. At any rate, there is
nothing but what is admirable in the conduct of the daughter.
If
patriotism is a virtue, (and the love of our country is ranked by the
doctrines of the New Church, amongst the very highest forms of
charity,) then, in this respect, both father and daughter exhibited
the daughter, this was
virtue of the most sublime order; and, ill
unalloyed by the slightest drawback.
Such self-devotion, such
is admirable iri the highest de 
disregard of every selfish feeling,
gree, and worthy of being held forth as a most ennobling example:
and whoever shall so far imitate it, as to be ready, on any suitable
occasion,
to make a corresponding sacrifice of self and of selfish
inclinations for the good of others, is sure of a -state of dignity in
the kingdom of the Lord.

them, and dwellcst in their land j

then
ence to those laws, but in ignorance and violation of them j
It was to the false goel Molech, prin 
the whole case is reversed.
cipally, that children were sacrificed as burnt-offerings; on which
subject we read in Lev. xviii., "Thou shalt not let any of thy seed
pass through the fire to Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name
jof thy God."
In ch. xx. the punishment of death is decreed against
-those who should do so: and the most awful denunciations against it
are repeated over and over again :-thus, "vVhosoever he be of the
children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in the land, that
giveth of his seed unto Moloch, he shall surely be put to death;
the people of the land shall stone him with stones. And I will
.set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his
people ; because he hath given of his seed unto Molech, to defile
my sanctuary and to profane my holy name." And that they
should not introduce such horrid rites into the worship of the
Lord, because most hateful
is expressly commanded in
to him,
Deuteronomy xii., "When the Lord thy God shall cut off the na 
to possess them, and
tions from before thee, whither thou goest
take heed to
thou succeedest
thyself that thou be not snared by following them, after that they
be destroyed from before thee; and that
thou enquire not after
their gods, saying, How did these nations serve their gods? even
so will I do likewise. Thou shalt not do so unto tho Lord thy
God:
for every abomination to the Lord which lIe hateth, have
they done unto their gods; for even their sons and their daughters
they have burnt in the fire to their gods."
It is impossible for
language to express more strongly the divine abhorrence of such
practices: If then J ephthah fell
into any thing of the kind, it is
evident that he did it through ignorance; and no imputation can
lie against the law itself for his un witting breach of it.
. On the 'whole then, it appears next to impossible to decide with
certainty the much agitated question, whether J ephthalr's daughter
was put to death or not.
I incline after all to think myself that
she "vas not, because I think it possible that although the males
specially dedicated to the service of the tabernacle were allowed to
least I
this might not be the case with the females : at
marry,
think this point not fully proved. But to go into all the minutire
of this question would be out of place in a sermon; and I have done
[The Plenary InS]Jiration.]
so rather largely in a published work,
'I'hough I have now confined myself to the literal sense of this
remarkable history, I trust the observations suggested arc calculated
to vindicate the
to have their use,

tending, as they have _done,

SERMON XIX.

Judges xi. 30, 31.

(Sern1011 ii.)

" And Jephihah. vowed a vow unto the Lord, and said, If thou shalt
without fail deliver ·the children of Ammon into my hands, Then it
shall be that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of tny house to
meet me when I return in peace [rom the children of Ammon, shall

, he the Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering."

IN our former discourse upon these words, ,ve confined ourselves
entirely to their literal sense, offering first snch reflections as might
naturally present
themselves, if we look at them as containing, in
connexion with the context, a simple history of an extraordinary
instance of self-denial on the part of Jephthah, and of self-devotion
on the part of his daughter: and in the second place, giving a view
of what has been offered on both sides in the discussion of the
celebrated question, Whether Jephthalr's daughter was actually
put to death, or whether she was consecrated to the Lord in some
other way: and we finally shewed, that even upon the supposition
of her being really sacrificed, they who infer from it an argument
against the truth of the Scriptures and of Revealed Religion, prove
by it nothing but their own ignorance; since nothing can be more
decisive than the language in which the offering of human sacri 
fices, under any pretence whatever, is prohibited in the Mosaic
law, as being the most 'hateful of abominations; whence, if it were
even certain that Jephthah's daughter was so sacrificed, the blame
of it would lie, not on the laws of the Israelitishdispensation, but
on the ignorance of Jephthah and his countrymen, of the remote
part of the territory beyond Jordan 'which was the scene of the
whole transaction.

In noticing the arguments that have been adduced in support of
each side of the question respecting the reality of the sacrifice 01'"
otherwise, we found it necessary to observe,
the
labours of the learned men who have investigated the subject, it
did nat appear possible to pronounce with any degree of certainty
to that historical fact. But al..
what was the case with respect
though it appeared to me that they who are of opinion that Jeph ...
thah's daughter was put to death, have the strongest side of the

that after all

[Serm. xix.]

Sermons on Judges.

163

argument; and though likewise it really seems difficult to imagine
otherwise from the relation as it stands; I stated that I neverthe 
less inclined to think, for my own part, that her life was preserved.
My reason for forming this opinion is this:
that although it is very
possible that Jephthah might not have a sufficient knowledge of
the Mosaic law to be aware, that he was not bound by that law to
perform his oath Iiterally, when his daughter must, by adh.ering to
the terms of his vow, be the victim, and might therefore, If left to
himself, through mere ignorance, perform this dreadful immola 
tion; yet as he allowed t\VO months to intervene before. he pro 
ceeded to ·put it in execution, and no doubt it must, during that
time, be the subject of conversation allover the country, it. seems
hardly possible that this should not have afforded opportunity for
his receiving better information. This indeed ;,was time enough
for the news to be carried as far as Shiloh, to the high priest him 
if he had heard of it, would doubtless have exerted
self; who,
himself to prevent its taking effect.
I am aware that this may be
replied to on the same ground that it has been argued, that J eph 
thah had not the opportunity, if he would, to send his daughter to
the tabernacle to be there employed in some subordinate ministra 
,
tions because this was then at Shiloh in the tribe of Ephraim, and
this time a war between J ephthah and the Ephraim-
there was at
ites, as appears from the next chapter: but this is sufficiently an 
swered by the well-known fact, that whatever dissensions and wars
there at any time existed between the. several tribes of Israel, they
never impeded each other in their journies to perform the cere 
the tabernacle or temple, where every male
monies of religion at
Israelite was required by the law to present himself three times ill
a year, on which occasions a truce took place and was religiously
observed.
It appears then that during the two months that were
allowed to this generous young woman to prepare for her fate, .her
father must have learned, that her death was not only not required
by his vow, but was in the highest degree illegal,-that he was ~ot
only at liberty, but that it was his duty, to redeem her at the prIce
of thirty shekels; information which, we are sure, must have been
in the highest degree agreeable to him, and must have effectually
prevented the human sacrifice from taking place. But if so, why
is not this stated? Why, it may be asked, is the history couched
in such terms, as seem at least strongly to imply that the dreadful
ceremony was performed, when a statement to the contrary would
be so aareeable to the feelings of everyone who reads it, and would
have obviated the objections which are thence urged, with some

.

164

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xix.j

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

165

degree of plausibility at least, against its holy nature? The only
satisfactory.answer that can here be given is, Because the things
treated of in the internal sense, for the sake of which alone the
letter is written, could" not have been expressed unless this appear 
ance had been preserved.

But perhaps this answer may at

first be thought to render the
It may be asked again, If human sacri 
matter still more obscure.
fices were in fact the greatest abominations that could be offered
to insult
the majesty of heaven, and strictly prohibited in the
divine law on that account, how can it be necessary that all ap 
pearance of one having taken place should be suffered to occur in
the letter of the Word ?-especially when it is evident that it is
not done to represent any thing profane and unholy, but the con 
trary ? We answer, For the same reason as it was necessary for
A braham to believe that it was required of him by the Lord that
he should sacrifice his only son,
through whom alone the
promise of his becoming the father of many nations, was to be ful 
filled to him, and to act under the infl uence of this belief so far as
to "stretch forth his hand and take the knife to slay his son."
It
is true that in the case of Abraham, an angel was then sent to stay
his hand, and a ram caught in the thicket was substituted instead
of Isaac: but it proceeded far enough to shew, that the offering up
of a child, taken only in one point of view, has a holy signification,
though taken in another it is the height of profaneness. The same
may be concluded from the circumstance,
that by the Levitical
law, the first-born of every thing was considered as belonging to
the Lord: hence, if it was a clean beast, it was to be offered in
if an unclean beast a clean one was to be substituted
sacrifice j
for it.

Isaac,

One is apt at first sight to wonder how so horrible a superstition,
so repugnant to some of the strongest feelings of human nature, as
the sacrifice of human victims, and especially of children by their
parents, could ever have been tolerated among mankind for. a
moment,-much less could have been so constantly and extensively
practised, among various nations of antiquity, as history assures us
was the fact.
Even the Greeks, so celebrated for their literary
attainments, were not untainted with it: we have all heard of the
sacrifice of Iphigenia the daughter of Agamemnon, the chief of the
princes who went to the siege of Troy, and the commander of the
whole armament, as the only effectual expedient for procuring a
their navy thither. We are told that it was
fair wind to waft
practised, to an enormous extent among the original inhabitants of

this favoured island of Britain, it being customary in the worship
of the Druids to construct great idols of wicker work, and to fill
them with human victims, which were all consumed together.
That similar customs were common among the original inhabitants
of Canaan and the surrounding nations, especially in the worship
of Molech the idol of the Ammonites, is evident from numerous
passages of the I-Ioly Scriptures j and as the war in which Jephthah
uttered the vow in obedience to which he is supposed to have
sacrificed his daughter, was against
this nation of sacrificers of
their children, there can be little doubt that it was on account of
the necessity that every evil must be combated from au opposite
good) and that the principle of the mind in which the evil resides,
is only brought into order by the introduction in..to it of the good
suited to its nature instead of the evil removed: wherefore as the
those who are in the evil and false principle
-Ammonites represent
that is represented by the sacrifice of children to Molech, they
could only be overcome by the good and truth of the same general
character, represented by an apparent sacrifice of'-a daughter to
Jehovah. At present however we are only adverting to the com 
monness of the practice in ancient times of sacrificing children,
and to the multitude of nations by whom it was practised j and
certainly the land of Canaan and surrounding countries, seems to
have been the great centre from whence this horrid worship was
propagated to other countries.' It is known that the Canaanites
were the same people as were called by the Greeks, Phcenicians j
and ancient authors fully corroborate the Scripture accounts of
their devotedness to the sacrificing of their children.
It is known
also that the Carthaginians, long the rivals of Rome, were Phceni 
cians or Canaanites by descent; and their addictedness to the
practice is also well known. An ancient historian, speaking of
their conduct at a time of national calamity, says, "They con 
sidered the wrath of their god Saturn as one cause of their mis 
fortunes.
For instead of sacrificing to him, as formerly, the sons
of their most distinguished citizens, they had for some time been
in the practice of buying boys privately, whom they brought up,
and then sent as offerings: and now, when an inquiry was made
into the matter, it was found, that Saine of those sacrificed had been
substitutes of this description j-that is, had not been sons of per 
sons of distinction, but purchased slaves,
represented as their
children. When therefore they saw the enelny before their walls,
they upbraided themselves in their hearts) for having in any mea 
sure departed from the religion of their fathers j and by ,yay of

'166

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm,

xix.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

167

making atonement, they sacrificed two hundred boys for the state,
those of the first quality for the purpose.
taking care to select
Beside these, there were given up for sacrifice three hundred im 
peached persons,-that is, persons accused of having shunned the
sacrifice themselves, and of having allowed bought slaves to be sub 
stituted in their room. There was at Carthage a brazen image of
Saturn, which let its open hands down to the ground, and threw
the children that were laid upon them into a pit full of fire."
I
have introduced this shocking, recital, in order to shew, more fully
even than appears in the Scripture history, to 1Vhat an extent the
practice of immolating their children prevailed among ancient
nations. The sentiments which the contemplation of it is calcu 
lated to excite certainly are, compassion for the innocent victims,
and disgust for the frightful superstition which could thus arm the
hands of parents against their offspring, and overcome the strongest
and best feelings of human nature; and though it
is difficult not
to extend our abhorrence of the practice to those who were so de 
based by it as to become the agents in these horrible tragedies j
yet, whatever share of this feeling is justly due to the priests who
introduced and enjoined it, perhaps the unhappy parents were
more properly objects of pity; as it is evident that they did it
in
violation of those tender feelings of which they were not destitute,
and in obedience to an overpowering sense of duty-a principle
that is respectable even in its errors.

But what can be the reason, that a practice which had every
principle of natural feeling and common sense in such direct opposi 
tion to it, could ever, in spite of these, obtain SUCll an extensive influ 
I apprehend, because as before intimated, regarded in one
ence?
point of view only, it was seen to have a holy signification j whence
it got into use to the disregard of the other point of view, which
ought never to be forgotten, when any thought was entertained of
proceeding to the act, and in which, when actually performed, it
must be seen to be in the highest degree profane.
is
certain, that many of the most detestable practices that have ever
prevailed among mankind, were the perversions of something in ...
trinsically good; agreeably to that old and very true maxim, " the
corruptions of the best things become the worst."

Indeed it

It is well known that the sacrifices directed in the Levitical law,
and indeed many other of the customs introduced into that law,
time by Moses, but had
were not institutions given for the first
long before been observed among the eastern nations j all that was
the animals that
done by Moses respecting them was, to Iimit

might be offered in sacrifice, to certain species, and to prescribe
exactly the manner of offering them. Now whence could this
previous introduction of sacrificial worship originate ? whence, but
because it was perceived by the people who first
introduced it,
whoever they were,
that hereby might be represented the pure
worship of the Lord, and that this representation of pure worship
might at the same time be accompanied with pure worship in him
who offered it, provided he "vas aware of what his offerings repre 
sen ted.
For the people of those, ancient times were well skilled in
what we call the science of correspondences-that is) they knew
things and
the relation that subsists by creation between natural
spiritual, which is such that all natural things derive their origin
from certain spiritual things; for these, when exerting an influence
in a sphere below that in which they are themselves, give birth to
natural things which are representative of themselves, and which
may indeed be considered as themselves embodied and made visible
in a natural
form. Thus there is between natural things and
spiritual a certain constant and immutable relation, analogy, or
correspondence; the natural
thing answering to, and being a
proper representative image of, the spiritual, as the reflection of
a figure in a mirror answers to, and is an image of, the substantial
object that produces it. All this was thoroughly understood in
those ancient times: of course the people of those times well knew
to what affections the various animals correspond:
they knew that
a lamb is a representative of love and innocence, a sheep of charity,
an ox of good natural affections; and so on: and as they also
knew that all genuine worship of the Lord essentially consists in
an elevation to him of all the affections and perceptions of the
heart and mind, they also knew that this might be represented by
the offering of animals in sacrifice;
the burning of which upon the
Lord's altar, was representative of the acceptance by him of the
affections from and with which man approaches him in worship.

But while the men of those times continued in the clear and
full perception of what was represented by the various animals and
other objects in nature, they also knew that the only real part even
of representative worship, was the offering to the Lord of the in 
ward states of mind which the animals represented, and that in the
sacrifice of the animals themselves there was nothing pleasing to the
Lord, but rather the contrary, as it is attended with suffering, which,
even when endured by, and inflicted on, an animal, is abhorrent to
the will of Infinite goodness. Whilst then the men of those times

168

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm.

xix.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

169

remained in their wisdom and in the undefiled worship of the Lord,
they indeed talked of this worship as of sacrificing animals, because
this gave them fuller ideas of the subject than they, owing to the
peculiar genius of all who lived before the coming of the Lord,
were capable of attaining by any other mediums. But they were
content with thus offering to the Lord, as the prophet, say~, the
calves of their lips, that is, they offered to the Lord the affections
represented by the calves and other animals used in sacrifices, in
their prayers and praises, meant by the lips, without sacrificing the
animals themselves. But when a generation of grosser minds
afterwards arose,-of men who were more immersed in sensual and
carnal
things, and who thence had not such clear perceptions of
what was meant by this kind of discourse and of purely spiritual
worship,
they began to think it necessary to put to death the
to strengthen his
animals themselves; just as a Roman Catholic,
conception, when in worship, of the Lord Jesus Christ) thinks it
necessary to have a crucifix before his eyes: and as they who did this
retained some, though an obscure idea of the spiritual things repre 
sented, the use of actual sacrifices was permitted, as necessary to
keep this alive.
It was from this cause that sacrifices were per 
mitted, and apparently enjoined, to the children of Israel. Properly
speaking they were not enjoined them, but only the manner
and. occasions of offering them directed, since they were in the
practice of using them long before: and the reason why they were
permitted to continue them, under certain regulations, was, be 
cause, though the Israelites never knew any thing of the spiritual
things represented by them, yet the sacrifices affected them with a
sense, of holiness, and kept them. in some kind of worship, of which
otherwise they would have been incapable; at least, if not allowed
in this manner to worship Jehovah, they would have plunged into
all the idolatries of their neighbours. But the ultimate reason was
that
.the .same as that of the calling of the. Israelites altogether:
under the· descriptions of representative worship thus recorded in
the: Divine Word a future church might, without returning to the
practice of such worship, learn, by a knowledge of the spiritual
things represented, how to offer to: the Lord a purely spiritual
worship, to consist in the. consecration to Him at all times of all
the! faculties of the heart and mind, and in the ascription thereof'
to Him, at stated times,
in prayers and. praises, in their public
assemblies,
It is for the same reason that a kind of bloodless
sacrifice' is: continued among Christians in the bread and wine of

the Lord's supper; in which are represented, in one complex, all
the varieties of good and truth in worship, that were denoted by all
the varied symbols of the Levitical institutions.

From this view of the subject it may clearly be seen, that there
may be forms of speaking and writing according to representatives
and correspondences, which would be exceedingly criminal ifreduced
into acts. We find that even the slaughter of animals is something
that, in itself, cannot enter with strict propriety, into the worship
of the Lord, although to describe his genuine worship by images
thence derived is highly useful and expressive.
So it is, in a much
stronger degree, when the subject of the sacrifice is considered to
be a son or a daughter.
If the animals allowed to be sacrificed
were representative of certain principles in the mind of the offerer,
dedicated by him to the Lord, his own children must be represen 
tative of principles in his mind still more closely connected with
him, and which, to render his conjunction with the Lord complete,
ought by no means to be withheld from Him. They must repre 
sent the proper affections of his own will, the proper perceptions
of his own understanding, which, unless surrendered to the Lord,
are the affections and perceptions of his own selfhood.
It was 011
this account that Abraham, by whom is represented the celestial
man, was tried as to his willingness to offer Isaac; and when he
had complied, the reason assigned by the Lord for the blessing then
pronounced upon him was, "Because thou bast not withheld thy
son, thine only son, from me." Thus it
in the
language of correspondences, to speak of sacrificing children to the
Lord, only means to devote to him the inmost .uffections of the
In this point of view, then, and when suffered to go no
heart.
farther than to words, the sacrifice of children was clearly repre 
sentative of something pre-eminently holy. The- reason is, be 
cause, in this point of view, the children are not regarded as having
any thing, not even life, of their O'VD J but are viewed merely as the
absolute property of the parents.
Hence no doubt, among the
ancient people, who used to speak of sacrifices without performing
them, the sacrifice of children was often mentioned: and thence
their ignorant and corrupt descendants proceeded to the commis 
sion of the act. But thismust necessarily be in the highest degree
profane. For though for the sake of representation, children may
be considered as the absolute property of the parents, yet in reality
they are also human beings themselves, having a life independent
of their parents, and to deprive them of which is murder of the
worst kind: hence the act of sacrificing children, instead of repre-

is evident, that

15

170

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm. xix.]

senting the: hallowing of our inmost affections to tl.e Lord, repre 
sents the direct contrary, and denotes the privation of spiritual life
in the nearest affections of the heart, and a complete enslavement
to infernal bondage.

We see from -the whole, that although there is a strong reason
to conclude that Jephthah's daughter was not actually put to death,
it was necessary that the literal account of the transaction
yet
should be so constructed, as to seem to indicate that such was the
fact, because otherwise the holy and most
important spiritual
things intended to be conveyed in the internal sense, could not
adequately be represented. And from the view which we- have
been enabled to take of what those spiritual things are, we see how
indispensable it is that 'we should ever be ready to sacrifice our
spiritual ojfspring to the Lord j
that is, to devote to Him the very
inmost affections and thoughts of our hearts and minds,-the very
inmost of our souls,-whatever is derived from our inmost life, and
is 'most _closely and intimately identified with ourselves.
Though
the outward act of sacrificing children is most barbarous and pro 
fane, because they, as well as ourselves, live by a life communicated
to them from the Lord as their own, .and thus are not absolutely
the property of their parents; yet the spiritual sacrifice, which,
when only spoken of in words and not actually performed, such a
sacrifice represents, is, as thus explained, a duty which we must be
willing to 'discharge, and which will, in some stage of our regener 
ative progress be required of us all. May we ever be ready to
dedicate all that we either are or have to the Lord, our Creator
and Redeemer: so shall we be saved from all our spiritual enemies,
and be permanently established in his heavenly kingdom.

SERMON XX.

Judges xi. 30, 31.

(Sermon iii.)

" And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the Lord, and said, If thou shalt
without fail delioer the children of Ammon into rny hands, Then it
shall be that whatsoever cometli forth of the doors of 1ny house to
meet me when I return/ in peace from the children of Ammon, shall
he tile Lord's, and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering."

THE circumstance here recorded being so much celebrated by all
who have written Oil
the history of the childreri of Israel, and
having given rise to a question of which everyone has heard, and
ill which all who have heard of it feel some interest j we have de 
voted two former discourses to a consideration of the literal facts,
and of inquiries thence arising.
In our first discourse we stated
the arguments that have been advanced in favour of the supposi 
tion, that Jephthah's daughter was not actually put' to death, and
those by which this more pleasing view of the history has been
replied to; when we found, that although it is impossible to deter 
the particulars of the narrative,
mine the matter with certainty,
regarded solely in their literal sense, and the arguments deduced
from them, give most sanction to the supposition that she 'Was
actually sacrificed.
I, however, stated my own opinion to be other 
wise..for which, in our last discourse, I gav~ my reasoris ; remark 
ing also, that the reason why the letter was so framed as to favour
the contrary conclusion, was, because the spiritual sense required
that there should be an appearance that such was the fact, on which
account the narrative is so constructed as plainly to point to this
inference, although it is not expressly affirmed. For certainly) the
sole design with which the Word of God was written, was, not to
convey information respecting natural things but spiritual: and
though the Jews were selected to represent spiritual things by their
worship and the actions of their government, and of certain leading
individuals, whence the occurrences related are in general strictly
true, yet there certainly are some instances in which the historical
narrative, though including an account of the circumstances true
to exhibit
in some respect, is yet so partially constructed, as not
the whole truth j at least not on a superficial inspection j
the spiri 
tual sense requiring the mention of certain things, and perhaps the

172

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm,

xx.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

] 73

omission of certain others, without the knowledge of which the
historical. relation seems confused and obscure. And this seems
likely to have been the case with this history of J ephthah and his
daughter. But our last discourse was more particularly occupied
"with a view of the origin of sacrificial worship in general, and of
human sacrifices in particular, which, though the highest abomina 
tion to the true God, were offered by many ancient nations to
their idols.

It is, however, a matter of little consequence to vs, beyond mere
curiosity, whether Jephthah's daughter was preserved alive or not.
We have before shewn, that the truth of Revealed Religion is by
no means dependent upon this fact, even if determined in the
negative ; because in this case the act was not committed under
the sanction of the divine law, but in violation of it.
Still Chris 
tians in general have thought, that the honour of religion was
much compromised by the transaction, because J ephthah was an
instrument raised up for
the delivery of Israel, and was a prosper 
ous commander and judge; and because no intimation is given of
the illegality of his vow, or of any divine disapprobation in conse 
quence of it. But if the honour of religion depended on the fault 
lessness of conduct of the characters distinguished in the J ewish
history, it would be very difficult to maintain it indeed j as there is
scarcely one of them whose conduct might be taken for the imita 
tion of the Christian. To the best of them, many things were per 
mitted because of the hardness of their hearts, as the Lord himself
declares, which in the beginning were not so, and which he pro 
hibits to the member of a true church, and not of the mere type of
a church, which was all
that the Jewish was. Many of their chief
persons, even those most highly extolled in their typical character,
to which alone the commendations of them are meant to apply,
.were guilty of acts in themselves enormously wicked: and David
himself, the most distinguished of them all, in the deliberate mur 
der of Uriah, committed a crime of premeditated wickedness,
to
which the cruel but not malignant or intentional error of J ephthah,
even if brought into perpetration, would be comparatively inno 
cent: for what he did" proceeded from ignorance and a mistaken
sense of duty; whereas David knew from the beginning that he
was breaking the most imperative of the divine commandments.
With what difficulties then are they embarrassed,
in defending
their religion, who believe the Jews ever to have been, personally,
the peculiar favourites of heaven, the members of a true internal
from which embarrassments, as we have occasionally
church:

shewn, the member of the New Jerusalem Church is exempt, who
believes the Jews only to have been a representative church, or
even a representation or type of a church j
in which case sanctity
of private character was by no means necessarily implied, even in
the persons who sustained the most holy representations. To us
then it matters not, beyond the interest the story is calculated to
excite, whether J ephthah's daughter "vas actually sacrificed, auy
more than it does whether Iphigenia, the daughter of Agamemnon,
was actually sacrificed, or whether, as some authors affirm, she was
the critical moment conveyed R\Vay by Diana, to be a priestess
at
in her temple, and a white hind miraculously substituted in her
place. To us it matters not whether .rephthah "vas the man of en 
lightened piety which he is represented by some writers, or
the
ignorant barbarian assumed by others. But we will proceed. to
close our remarks on the history of J ephthali by a short view, as
far as we are enabled to discover it, of the spiritual import of S01118
of the principal circumstances recorded: only adding further to
our prefatory observations, that 110 light is thrown upon the fact in
dispute in the writings of the herald of the New Church, in which
there does not occur a single quotation from any part of the history,
or the slightest reference to it.

Although without more illumination than the church is at pre 
sent in possession of, it ulay be difficult to trace the reason why the
various oppressions and deliverances of the Israelites occurred in
" the order in which they are recorded, and why the judges who
were the instruments of effecting those deliverances, -succecdcd
each other in the progression that we find; yet one thiug is so
remarkable in this respect, and agrees so exactly with the informa 
tion the N ew Church possesses respecting the meaning of the
twelve tribes of Israel, that we cannot but be struck with the coin 
cidence, and discover in it an additional proof of the truth of our
doctrines upon this subject.
that the judge who de 
livered Israel on their first affliction, from their enemies after they
were settled in the land, and indeed the first of
the series of
governors who are properly called judges, was Othniel of the tribe
of Judah; and the last of them was Samson of the tribe of Dau.
Now Judah, we are informed, represents the highest principle in
the church, called the celestial, and Dan the lowest, called the
sensual j whence it is evident that the whole series represent a
progression in order, through all the states that enter into the con 
stitution of the church, or of the man of the church, from the
highest to the lowest, Another striking coincidence or two Inay

It is this:

15*

174

Sermons on Judges.

[Serm

be mentioned: one is, that as the first
judge was Othniel, of the
tribe of Judah, so the second was Ehud, of the tribe of Benjamin:
the reason of which 110 doubt is, because Benjamin is the external
of the same general principle that has Judah for its internal; which
also is the reason, when an entirely different state was represented
under the kings, the order of which was to begin from the external
and thence proceed to the internal, Saul, the first king, was of the
tribe of Benjamin, and David, the second, of the tribe of Judah:
and" from the same cause it was that when the twelve tribes were
split
into two kingdoms, Benjamin alone, of them all, remained
with the tribe of Judah. Another coincidence is observable in the
facts, that Jephthah was the next distinguished judge that came
after Gideon, and that Gideon was of that part of the tribe of
Manasseh that had their inheritance within Jordan, and J ephthah
was of the other half of the tribe of Manasseh that had their lot
beyond Jordan: for it is said that Jephthah was a Gileadite, and
Gilead was a country beyond Jordan which fell to the inheritance
of one of the half-tribes of Manasseh. From this circumstance it
is evident, that Jephthah must denote the external of the same
general principle, as that of which Gideon is the internal. This
fact,
that he represents a principle that belongs entirely to the
external man, will account for
the want of legitimacy which is
recorded of his birth, and for the disorder and violence by which,
in the early part of his life, he seems to have been distinguished.

text,

We read at the end of the preceding chapter, " Then the children
of Ammon were gathered together and encamped in Gilead, And
the children ofIsrael assembled themselves together and encamped
in Mizpeh. And the people and princes of Gilead said one to an 
other, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children
of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead."
Then begins the chapter of our
taking up the history:
"'Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour; and
he was the son of a harlot: and Gilead begat J ephthah. And
Gilead's wife hare him sons; and his wife's sons gre\v up, and they
thrust out Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in
our father's house; for thou art the son of a strange woman. Then
Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the Land of Tob:
and there were gathered vain men to Jephthah, and went out with
him :"-that is, he became the captain of a band of roving free 
booters, such as abound in that part of the world to this day.
In'
this capacity he acquired such a reputation for military skill and
courage, that the history proceeds to say, " And it came to pass in

xx.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

175

that the children of Ammon made war against
process of time,
Israel. And it was so, that when the children of Ammon made
war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch J ephthah out
of the land of Tob: and they said unto Jephthah, Come, and be
our captain,
that we may fight with the children ·of Ammon."
J ephthah, after remonstrating with them on their former expulsion
of him from his father's house, consented to their request, on con 
dition that, in case of success, he should be their captain and head;
a solemn convenant to which effect was made before the Lord at
J ephthah then sent messengers to the king of the Am 
Mizpeh.
monites, remonstrating with him on his unjust invasion, and de 
siring him to depart peaceably; and receives for answer a message
from the king claiming a right to the country. To this Jephthah
replies by a second embassy, shewing at length the injustice of the
claim; but without any effect.
"Then," it is said, "the spirit of
the Lord came upon J ephthah, and he passed over Gilead and
Manasseh; and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh
of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon."
Then he
made the vow recorded in our text, attacked and defeated the Am 
monites, and the other transactions took. place which we noticed in
our former discourses.

In all

this history we find a remarkable contrast between the
mode of proceeding to effect the expulsion of the Ammonites, and
that which was observed to produce the defeat of the Midianites
by Gideon; strongly exhibiting the difference in purity and in
divine dependance, between goodness and truth of an interior kind,
III the case of Gideon, the
and such as are of an exterior kind.
utmost caution was observed lest any thing of man should mix
itself with the divine operations; in this of J ephthah,
the whole
seems to have been contrived almost by unassisted human pru 
dence; except that the success appears to have been a consequence
of the divine favour procured by Jephthah's vow. And his vow
too was a conditional one, stipulating advantages for himself, or
success in his enterprise, like that of Jacob when he said, "If God
will be with me, and will keep me in this ,vay that I go, and will
give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, so that I come again
to my father's house in peace;
then shall the Lord be my God :"
for such is interiorly the nature of all the worship of the merely
natural man: he is content
to serve the Lord, provided he is well
rewarded for it j and he considers the happiness of heaven itself
. when he elevates his mind so high, merely in the light of a reward,
whence he does good not from the pure love of it, but from a

176

Sermons on Judges.

[Serrn.

motive of mere obedience, because he sees that his own welfare
cannot be otherwise secured. And this motive even, low as it is,
is accepted in such states by the Lord; for it is, in fact, the highest
motive from which man is able to act in the commencement of his
regeneration; and even when his regeneration is COlll plctcrl, there
will always remain a principle in his constitution, though it will
no longer be the highest or governing oue, which finds in this
motive its proper incentive to action. But the purification of this
degree of the mind and life,
the result of a previous opening
and purification of higher principles, is represented bv the whole of
this history of Jephthah.

.'

b

.

that

J'ephthah is first described as a mighty man of valour, to denote a
~rinciple of tru~~ in the external man that is powerful in reasoning
In behalf of spiritual things, and strong in overthrowina opposing
f
b
1
a se persuaSIons: but he is said to be the son of a harlot, to de-
note
this does not originate in a pure affection, and is
not
the product of a legitimate conjunction of goodness and
truth within. For in the beginning of his regeneration man makes
himself acquainted with truths, and feels a delight ill
reasoning
from and for
in a great degree, of
them, under the infl uence,
merely natural affections, such as curiosity, the mere love of know 
ledge, without a suprerue regard to use, and not from the aeuuine
affection from which truth ought to be felt as delightful, which is,
a love of the good to which it leads. While he is III this state, he is
not a real member of the church, nor intitlcd to anv inheritance
therein; which is denoted by his brethren denying J cphthah a por 
tion. i~ his father's house, While in this state also he is in reality
a spiritual robber; because he does not, in his heart, whatever he
may do from doctrine, ascribe all his attainments to the Lord, but
regards them as the proper acquisitions of his own understanding:
so that he is
in reality much under the influence of self-intel 
ligence. Nevertheless, it appears that even so imperfect .a princi 
ple as this, is capable of successfully resisting that principle of
falsity grounded in evil, of which the children of Aiumon arc
represensative in the I-foly Word: and the children of Ammon
were the descendants of the brother of Moab, and therefore, de 
note a false principle, or a species of falsified truth, answering to the
species of evil, or of adulterated good, of which the Moabitcs are
t~e types. A~d as the Ammonites were descended from an illegi 
timate conuexion of the most profane description, itseC1TIS that
Jephthah, as the. offspring of a disorderly connexion of a milder
nature, and such as was tolerated by the laws of Moses was on

,

,

xx.]

Chap. xi. 30, 31.

177

,

•

b

.

'

to repel

that very account, and because of the representation thence result 
ing, the proper person to deliver the Israelites from their slavery to
.It is evident that he represents a princi 
the children of Ammon.
ple o~ truth in the external man, not orderly in itself, but capable
of being restored to order, and becoming a real principle of the
'I'his appears to be represented by Jephthah's remonstrat 
church.
ing with the heads of his tribe, on their not having admitted him
to an inheritance in his father's house together with his legiti 
mately descended brethren, and stipulating that, if he succeeded
in delivering his and their country, they should acknowledge him
as their captain. His t\VO embassies to the kina of Ammon in
which he demonstrated the injustice of his invasion, and peaceably
required the restitution of the country, evidently describe the
ma.nner ~u which truth clearly and calmly demonstrates the justice
~f Its claims j and the zeal with which, on receiving a refusal
to
listen to such claims OIl the part of the king of Ammon, ·he col 
lected the forces of the country and hastened to the combat under
an Influence which, it is said, he experienced because the spirit of
the Lord carne upon him, expresses the way in which truth
grounded in goodness is prepared, by an inflowing of power from
above,
'I'hat
Jephthah, in his present course, represents a principle of truth
gro.unded in goodness, is evident from the justice of the cause for
But in order that the result may be suc 
which he was acting.
cessful, the state must be purified, and all that is disorderly be re 
move~. We have noticed that J ephthah represents a principle of
truth In the external man in which there is much of self.
'I'his
~ust be totally clone a,vay; and its entire removal, and the eleva 
tion of all that the man has, apparently of his own, to the Lord, is,
as we have seen in our last discourse, 'what is signified by Jephthah's
vow, and by the victim of it, whether personally sacrificed or not
bcing his own daughter.

'
From this slight sketch of the general purport of the whole
history viewed in its spiritual
sense, we see that 110 degree of
the kn~,vledge of divine tnuth, and no power of reasoning in
favour of divine things, or of refuting the principles and arguments
of evil and falsity, can give anyone a title to an inheritance in the
Lord's church and kingdom, so long as his love and knowledge of
truth are connected with, and grounded in, anything that savours
of self and self-seeking,-so long as the affections from which such
attainments are cultivated, is of a spurious nature, and is not con 
nected with a love for the good to which all genuine truth is

the assaults of falsity grounded in evil.

178

Se1"1nOnS on Judges.

[Serm. xx.]

designed to lead.
Nevertheless, the power of reasoning against,
and demonstrating the fallacy of, the principles find arguments by
which evil and falsity defend themselves, aud by 'which they some ..
times appear to prevail against truth and goodness, is a most val li 
able thing, and, when properly exercised, of great
irnportanco in
the spiritual warfare. But it will not be conducive to our own
establishment in the Lord's Church, nor bri llg us to a station in  
his heavenly kingdom, till we are brought to ascribe all the merit
of it to the Lord, and to make a full surrender to him of every
good or excellence which we deemed most particularly our own.
But when we are enabled to resolve that whatever cometh out of
our house shall be the Lord's, and to carry the detcrminatiou into
effect, even though we find it
involves a sacrifice immensely more
painful than what we at
first contemplated, the work will be ac 
complished, and we shall be secure of a station of bliss and honour
in the Lord's kingdom for ever.

END.

Of the same Publisher may be had,

'rHE PLENARY INSPIRA'rION OF 'rHE SCRIP1'URES
ASSERrrED,

and the Principles of their Composition Investigated, with a View to the Refutation of all
illustrative and critical. By the Rev.
Objections to their Divinity. With an Appendix,
SAl\lUELN OBLg. 2nd edition, with Portrait.

5s.6cl. cloth.

--0--

NEW TRANSLATION BY REV. S. NOBLE OF SWEDENBORG'S HEAVEN AND HELL.

HEAVEN AND I'fS 1VONDERS,

'THE 1VORLD OF SPIRITS,

(Or the Intermediate Region, which is the First Receptacle of Man after Death.)
AND HELL:

Translated by the Rev, SAMUEL NOBLE.

From the Latin of EMANUEL
Described by one who has heard and seen what he relates.
S\VEDENBORG.
carefully
revised; with a NE"w Pn.gFACE, BY TIlE TRANSLATOR, including Explanatory Notes and
Observations. Together with the Original English Preface by Rev. THOMAS l:IARTLEY,
A.l\L, Rector of Winwick, N orthamptonshire.

Second edition,

5s. cloth.

8vo.
May also be had without IVIr. IfAHTLEY'S Preface.

4s. cloth.

" The first edition of the translation of Swedenborg's Work On Heauen and its lVonders ;
the lYorld of Spirits ; and Hell, -by the late Rev. S. Noble, was published in 1839; and the
late Mr. Chas. Tulk pronounced it to be the best translation of any work of Swedenborg's
that had. yet appeared. A second edition, carefully revised by the translator, was published
in 1851, and the Rev. :1\11'. Wrightson, of Queen's College Oxford, says that he has carefully
compared this with the original Latin, and he considers it to be the most perfect translation
from Latin of any work that be ever met with. With such testimonials to its excellence,
its price (5s. cloth), it may safely be recommended to
together with the reasonableness of
the especial attention of the members of the cburch."-Hodson's Quarterly Circular.

--0--

JEREl\IIAH IN THE DUNGEON;

Four Discourses delivered at London in the year 1807. Also, a Discourse Addressed to
Young Persons; and a Discourse delivered on the Day of the Writer's Ordination. By the
l\:Iinister of Dudley Chapel, Denmark Street, Soho,
late Rev. JAl\iE!:\ HODSON,
To which
is prefixed a Biographical Notice of the Author. Crown 8vo. Ls, cloth flush.

--0--
DEATI-I-BED REPEN'TANCE Il\IPOSSIBLE.

By the Rev. E. MADELEY. Crown 8vo.

6d. sewed.

--0--

GREAT IMPORTANCE OF A RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.

A Sermon. By the Rev. E. l\IADELEY. 3rd edition.

3d.

2

PRINCIPAL POINTS OF DIFFERENCE BET'VEEN THE
OLD AND NEW CI-IRIS'rIA.N CI-IURCIIES.

By Mrs, WILLIAM TURNER. Being a Reprint of "The True Church," published in
America. Revised by the Rev. DAVID HO\VARTH.

Is. cloth, lettered.

Foolscap.

- -0 -

THE PASSION OF rrIIE CRO~S:

Including an Explanation of the Import of the Blood of Christ, as mentioned in the Holy
Scriptures. By the Rev. "V. ~iASON.
Foolscap 8vo.

Is. cloth flush, lettered.

--0--

WHAT IS CONSCIENCE?

By the Rev. W. I\IAsoN. Foolscap 8vo.

18. cloth flush, lettered.

--0--

vVHAT IS TI-IE IIUl\iAN SOUL?

By the Rev.W. MASON Foolscap Bvo,

Is. cloth flush, lettered.

"The Rev. "V. Mason has treated, in a singularly lucid and thoughtful manner,
the
important, but most difficult question,-' What is the Human Soul?' He grapples boldly
and successfully with the problems of Fore-knowledge and Free-will, the seeming contra 
dictions of which he explains satisfactorily, concluding with some conjectures as to the
probable state of the soul in the life to come." -Critic.

--0--

AN ESSAY ON THE CREDIBILITY OF SWEDENBORG:

In which his Claims as the Announcer of the New Jerusalem are briefly Considered and De 
fended.
:MASON. 18mo.
Is. cloth.

By CHARLES PROCTOR. 2nd edition. Edited by the Rev. W.

"This is a publication which every friend of the New Church ought to possess, with a
view of lending it to others, npon whom it cannot fail to make a highly favourable impres 
sion."-Intellectual Repository.

--0--

THE AGED MINISTER's LAST LEGACY 'TO TfIE NEvV
CHURCH,
Signified by the New Jerusalem in the Apocalypse. By the Rev. JOSEPH PROUD. Second
edition, (abridged and adapted to the present time), to which is Prefixed a Memoir of the
Author, by the Rev. E. MADELEY, of Birmingham. Crown 8vo.

3s.6d. cloth.

