
=== Primary

The lesson drawn from the general character of the period of the Judges is an easy one to present, Jephthah's vow and its result can be discussed with the class. The faithfulness of Jephthah and his daughter to a promise made to the Lord should be stressed.

The Lord gave Joshua victory over all the enemies in the Holy Land, and then the whole country was marked out into sections. The tribes — all but the tribes of Reuben and Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh — cast lots to see which part of the land they should have. Those two and a half tribes had already been given land on the other side of the Jordan River.

After that each tribe took possession of its land and settled down in comfort. And they did just what Moses had told them to be sure not to do: they forgot all about the Lord. They even began to worship the gods of their enemies. So of course their enemies became strong again. And every time their enemies attacked them, they expected the Lord to help them. The Lord did help them over and over again. Each time He raised up some strong leader and gave him the victory. These leaders were called Judges.

Wouldn't you think the Israelites would have learned to be sensible and obey the Lord? Are you ever naughty? Doesn't being naughty always get you into trouble? And then you expect your mother to forgive you, don't you? And she does. And then are you always good after that? You see, we are very much like the children of Israel, aren't we?

One time the enemy was making trouble on the other side of the Jordan. This enemy was the Ammonites. When the Israelites turned to the Lord for help, He raised up a man named Jephthah, who lived on that other side of the Jordan to be their leader.

What rash vow did Jephthah make?

What did he have to give up as a result?

When Jephthah made his vow, he did not think that he was going to have to give up his only daughter, whom he loved. But he kept his promise, and his daughter helped him keep it. We should keep our promises, and we should never try to make anyone else break a promise either.

