
=== Adult

Be sure that all in this class know the facts concerning New Church Day and the Second Coming of the Lord. Then take up the correspondence of the Bible lesson, emphasizing Revelation 22:7 and 14 and their specific meaning for every member of the New Church.

---
As an adult each of us has his or her own life to live from day to day, his own background and abilities, his own tastes and temptations, his own education, his own daily work, his own friends, his own opportunities. Only the Lord knows just what each of us is and how far he is doing the best he can with his life. But wherever we go there are rules which we must observe if we wish to be accepted and liked, rules for the care and conduct of our homes, rules for our offices, jobs, schools, and laboratories, rules for our social activities, rules of the road. Rules are what make all our activities orderly and safe and enjoyable. Should we not expect to have rules for our inner spiritual life which will make our thinking and feeling as well as our actions orderly and safe and enjoyable?

The word "church" has several connotations: a building, a small group of people, a local organization, a national or world organization, religious thought in general, or a particular system of doctrine. But in every connotation the word "church" implies and assumes recognition of God, and churches differ primarily according to the concept of God to which they are dedicated, and this concept is a matter of doctrine, of specific belief. If we have no specific belief about God, about who and what He is and what belief in Him involves we are not really members of any church.

We know from the Word and from history in general as well as from the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg which, as members of the New Church, we professedly accept as authoritative, that every dispensation of the Lord's Church on earth has declined and come to its end because its own people refused to trust and obey the Lord as He had revealed Himself to them, and chose instead to worship "the gods of the nations round about."

Our New Church is still in its beginnings. It is small and not too widely known in the world. How sincere are we? Have we studied its teachings and accepted them freely and intelligently? Do they inspire us? Are we trying daily to live better lives by their help? When we come to church on Sunday, do we come willingly and eagerly to worship the Lord the Savior Jesus Christ as God, the one only God of heaven and earth? When we have a problem to solve, do we study it in the light of the teachings of the Lord in His Second Coming? Do we accept our difficulties and trials as opportunities to learn? Do we listen sympathetically to the troubles of our friends and neighbors and try to find and bring them thoughts from our doctrines which will really apply to their specific problems and help them? Do we refrain from criticizing and condemning others because they do not agree with us or do just as we do? It is the Lord who builds the Church, the church universal, which He sees as one man, and also the church specific, which He declares to be the "heart and lungs" of that man, a specific organ with a specific function. Our Church is the church specific for the new age. We help the Lord build it only as each of us tries continually and steadily to learn and live its teachings.

The New Jerusalem is the city of doctrine in which, as our chapter tells us, is the "pure river of the water of life" and the tree of life whose leaves are "for the healing of the nations." "And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him: And they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads." (Revelation 22:3-4)

