
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Take up with this class the history of the Church among mankind from the beginning, and why each declined and a new one had to be instituted through a new revelation. Then take up the reasons for the breaking up of the first Christian Church as given in their notes, the importance of the new revelation, which we are told is to be the final one, and the duty of each of them to read and study the Word daily in its light throughout their lives, as well as to direct their thought and conduct according to its teachings. Illustrate from the chapter for today how much the new light enables us to find within the cloud of the letter.

---
In n. 791 of The @TCR , one of Swedenborg's last writings, we read: "After this work was finished the Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day He sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that the LORD GOD JESUS CHRIST reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages. ... This took place on the nineteenth day of June, 1770." This is why we call June nineteenth "New Church Day," the birthday of the New Church, which we are told in @TCR 788 "is to follow those that have existed since the beginning of the world, and that it is to endure for ages and ages."

You know that the first Christian Church, which started as a result of the travels of the apostles, has broken up into many sects, some of them having quite different beliefs even about who Jesus Christ really was. There are two reasons for this. One is that there are always people who choose to believe only what it is easy and convenient for them to believe. Such people simply refuse to believe many of the statements they find in the Bible. The second reason is that there are many who want to believe the Lord but have found puzzling statements and apparent contradictions in the literal story and, rather than give up all belief, have accepted explanations which do not agree and often do not even make sense. And as men have learned more and more about this natural world of ours, many have come to believe that it is the only world we can know anything about.

The book of Revelation was a prophecy of the state of the world as it would develop after the days of the apostles, and in its last chapters it gives the promise of a final judgment and the establishment of a New Church to which would be given an understanding of the real inner meaning of the Word of God which would explain both the past and the future history of mankind and enable us to worship and obey the Lord with understanding. We should be very thankful that we today live in this new age of the Church and have been shown these things by the Lord through the writings of His servant Emanuel Swedenborg.

For example, we can know that the river mentioned in the first verse of our chapter for today pictures truth from the Lord, the same river described in the story of the Garden of Eden in the second chapter of Genesis. All men have a "thirst" for knowledge of some sort, and for those who want knowledge of the Lord the Word has always provided this knowledge. The tree of life in our lesson is the same tree which in the beginning was in the midst of the Garden of Eden, the understanding that all good and truth are not our own but are given us day by day by the Lord. Men's first turning away from the Lord to self was pictured by their disobedience in eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil and so putting that tree in the center of their garden in place of the tree of life. We do this ourselves whenever we think we know better than the Lord what is good for us to think and do. Genuine goodness received from the Lord is the fruit of the tree of life, and the leaves of this tree are genuine truths from the Lord which alone can "heal the nations." We need very much to see and think of this in the present state of our world. Peace and happiness cannot come to any one of us or to the world in any other way than by obedience to the Lord. As Revelation 22:7 in our lesson tells us, "blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book."

Another thing which we should notice in our lesson is what the angel said when John fell at his feet to worship him. There is a verse in the Bible, Psalm 8:5, which in the King James and other translations says of man: "For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels." People assumed from this that angels were a higher form of creation than man. But this is not what the Word of God really says at this place. In the original Hebrew language, in which the Old Testament was dictated by the Lord, this verse says: "For thou hast made him a little lower than God" — angels are not even mentioned here. So we should note especially what the angel in our lesson told John. Angels are all men like ourselves, all originally born on our earth or some other earth in the physical universe, who are living in heaven because they chose to obey the Lord.

This is the world in which we make our choices, and we make them from day to day. So if we want to be happy and to become angels and live in heaven, in the holy city New Jerusalem, we need to learn and keep always in mind the last verse of our lesson for today (Revelation 22:14): "Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates in to the city."

