
=== Junior

With this class emphasize the spiritual history of mankind as told in the Bible and the reason why the Lord had to give successive revelations to enable men better to know and understand Him. Tell them what a "dispensation" is and how John was called to be the prophet of the final dispensation described in Revelation by the descent of the New Jerusalem. Stress what Revelation 22:7 and 14 in our chapter should mean to each of us.

---
What is the first book in our Bible?

What is the last book?

By what other name is this last book called?

What does apocalypse mean?

What two things do we find in our reading for today which were found in the story of the Garden of Eden in the second chapter of Genesis?

This fact in itself shows us that the Word of God is one book, teaching us what the Lord intended for mankind from His first creation of them, what they chose to do with all the wonderful things He gave them, how from the beginning He supported the good and tried to teach the evil the folly of their ways, and how our life to eternity after we leave this world is going to depend on whether, while we are here, we choose to learn and obey the laws which He has given us for our happiness, or to turn our backs upon Him and do what we want to do from moment to moment, imagining that we are wise of ourselves.

Even as children growing up today you have an example of this.

You know that when you decide to do something which your parents have forbidden, you either get into immediate trouble or are led into other wrongdoing such as lying or blaming others instead of yourself. What you have done does not make you happy. It was foolish, not wise. And if you do not face this obvious fact and correct your ways, you become worse and worse, more and more foolish, and get into more and more trouble.

Because of the increasing number of foolish people who imagined themselves wiser than the Lord, the world grew worse and worse and mankind more and more unhappy. The Lord did all He could, giving them new instruction from time to time, until finally He came and lived among them Himself to show to their physical sight the good way of life. The first Christian Church was founded on this example and turned the tide of evil in the world, but it was still not enough. Jesus knew that it would not be. He told His apostles (John 16:12): "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now." Men had still much to learn about the things of this world, and He knew that as science and philosophy developed, it would become harder and harder for those whom the world considered "learned" to believe many of the literal statements of the Word. So He promised to come again (Matthew 24:30) "in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory."

The church on earth is man's response to each new revelation from the Lord. As the first Christian Church was their response to His coming in person, the New Church is the response to His Second Coming. The prophecy of this coming was made through the apostle John in the book of Revelation. He did not come again in a physical body. That, as He had said on the cross (John 19:30), was "finished." The Lord does not have to do the same thing twice. His Second Coming was made for us by opening the clouds which are in our minds when we read the Word in its letter, and letting the power and great glory shine through as we begin to see the spiritual meaning which is within the letter.

John describes the New Church that would be formed on the basis of this new knowledge as the holy city New Jerusalem descending from God out of heaven. The new knowledge was given through the agency of a man specially prepared by the Lord to receive it, the famous scientist and philosopher Emanuel Swedenborg, who would be humble and faithful in writing and publishing it. As you grow older, you will read and study more and more of what Swedenborg tells us the Lord permitted him to see and hear, and to understand as he read the Word in this new light. And if you yourselves faithfully read and study the Word in this light and try to live as it teaches, you will not only realize more and more the blessings which the Lord has given you but you will become more and more true and useful members of the Lord's New Church, the Church of the New Jerusalem.

In the @TCR 791, Swedenborg tells us:

"After this work was finished the Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day He sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that the LORD GOD JESUS CHRIST reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages. ... This took place on the nineteenth day of June, 1770." So we call June nineteenth "New Church Day," the birthday of the New Church.

