
=== Primary

This is a good lesson in which to tie the whole Bible together in the minds of the children as a continued story with a beginning and an end, and to show them what our life in this world is for and how important the way we behave from day to day is in determining whether or not we shall become angels. State the simple facts concerning the Second Coming and the New Church. Then go on to the lesson itself, and end with emphasis on Revelation 22:7 and its important meaning for our daily lives.

---
We of the New Church call the nineteenth of June "New Church Day." This is because it is the birthday of our Church, for we are told that on the nineteenth of June in the year 1770 the Lord sent His twelve apostles who had followed Him on earth throughout all the spiritual world to tell everyone that "the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns," and this is the teaching on which our Church is founded and the teaching which everyone in heaven knows and believes.

Our lesson for today is not a long one, but it is a very important one.

Do you remember the name of the first book in the Bible?

What does the word Genesis mean?

What is the last book in the Bible called?

What other word with the same meaning is sometimes used in speaking of it?

What do these words, revelation and apocalypse, mean?

When you were babies you did not understand the words you heard, did you? Now, as you grow, you are able to understand more and more.

And you know that your understanding will grow steadily all your life. Your parents can be wiser than you are, and your grandparents wiser than they.

And our growth in wisdom does not stop when we die.

Death is merely waking up in that beautiful world where we go on learning forever.

But you know also that you may choose to be foolish rather than wise. When you disobey your parents, for example, you are choosing to be foolish. To the end of our lives we have one Father whom we must obey. Who is He? In what book does He teach us the way to wisdom?

At first we understand very little of the Bible.

Its meaning is like a cloud behind which we know the sun is shining.

Do you remember the lesson we had from the second chapter of Genesis, the very first book in the Bible? It was about the Garden of Eden where Adam and Eve lived. That garden had a beautiful river and it had a fruit tree growing in the middle of the garden which was called "the tree of life." Now here in the very last chapter of the last book of the Bible we find that that same river and tree are in heaven, the beautiful land where we shall all go to live forever when we leave this world if the books of our lives here are found to be written as they should be, according to the teachings of the Word of God.

Let us always be looking forward to that day, however long or short our lives here on earth may be. But let us not forget that we cannot ever reach that beautiful land unless from day to day we try faithfully to do what is right instead of just what we happen to want to do. We often think that having our own way will make us happy, but it won't: it will only get us into all kinds of trouble. The Bible word for "happy" is "blessed." And in the Bible the Lord has given us His Word so that we may know how we ought to live in order to be happy forever. As Revelation 22:7 in our lesson tells us:

"Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book."

The Lord has now, as He promised, come again to us "in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory."

This coming was announced to the angels on June 19, 1770.

So we call June nineteenth the "birthday of the New Church" or "New Church Day."

