
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
State briefly the facts concerning New Church Day and concerning the spiritual history of mankind as recorded in the Word and what the Second Coming of the Lord and the descent of the New Jerusalem mean. Then try to be sure that the pupils know what the basic doctrines of the New Church are, encouraging questions and discussion.

---
The nineteenth of June is called "New Church Day," the birthday of the New Church.

All of you young people who read these notes, whether you were "born in the New Church" or not, have been providentially brought in contact with its teachings, for nothing ever happens which is not of the Lord's will or of His permission. This means that in each one of you the Lord sees the potential of understanding the teachings of the New Church and living according to them. This gives each one of you a serious responsibility of thought and conduct. Some people, even some members of the New Church, imagine that if we say that the church of which we are members is the one true Church, the final Church prophesied in Revelation, the New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, we are setting ourselves up as better than other people. But if we do not so proclaim our Church and its teachings, what we are really doing is refusing the particular task to which the Lord in His wisdom has called us. We know that every individual is different from every other and that only the Lord knows each of us through and through.

It is only as we accept whatever of blessing and of trial is given us as a gift from the Lord and use it to the best of our ability in the service of the Lord for our own growth and for helping our neighbor that we can develop spiritually and eventually become angels. Notice how humbly John, even after all that the Lord had permitted him to see and hear in his vision, "fell down to worship at the feet of the angel." John did not set himself up. Yet John realized that it was his particular duty given him by the Lord to proclaim to the world what had been shown him by the Lord.

There are good people in every church and in every religion.

We learn from the Writings of Swedenborg that every person who believes in a God and tries sincerely to live as he believes that God would have him live is a member of the "church universal" and will ultimately get to heaven, because, even if he has not in this world had an opportunity to learn the truth about God and the right way of life, he has desired it and will welcome it when he is told it in the other world; but those who in this world have persistently refused to learn or even try to learn because they preferred to think and do as they pleased will continue in the same desire when they reach the other world and so cannot be taught there. But the Lord has always provided that there be in this world a "church specific" which shall have access to all the genuine truth which the people of that age can understand. So there have been several "dispensations" of the Church in the course of history, all leading to this final one.

The opening of the inner meaning of the Word by the Lord in His Second Coming teaches us certain basic truths upon which no other church in the world is founded. The first and most important of these is that there is one God, the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and that the trinity called Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are not three separate persons but are in the Lord Jesus Christ — divine love, divine wisdom, and divine proceeding or activity — just as will, thought, and act are in each one of us. The second is that certain books of our Bible are the Word of God which, in their original languages, were verbally inspired by God in such a way that they express in earthly form — the forms in which God expressed Himself when He was creating the universe of nature — an internal meaning which we may study to eternity, always learning more about the Lord and what He would have us love and think and do. The third is that each of us is free to choose whether he will serve the Lord or himself, and that on our own free choice in this world will depend our state to eternity.

