
=== Adult

There are several good discussion topics here: the reason why people accept or reject the Lord, the meaning of reformation and regeneration and the necessity for them, the purpose of the Lord's coming, and the reason why people are saved or condemned.

---
Nicodemus was a Pharisee and a ruler of the Jews, yet he believed that the Lord came from God, and he came to Him for instruction. The Pharisees were a sect who adhered very strictly to the literal observance of the religious laws. We know from the Lord's own words that they were for the most part hypocrites (Matthew 23:25-28), keeping the law only externally and caring nothing for its spirit. Nicodemus was evidently altogether ignorant of the meaning of the Scriptures, for he did not understand what the Lord is talking about; yet he wanted to learn. His coming by night pictures his state of ignorance, as well as his fear of the judgment of his worldly associates. His recognition of the Lord's authority was based not upon any understanding of the Lord's character but upon the miracles He had performed. The Lord did not immediately call his attention to his cowardice in coming by night, but explained to him with divine patience just what his state was and what was needful if he was to attain the kingdom of heaven. We should note, however, that His instruction led up to the statement in verse 21, which must have shown Nicodemus his weakness. The Lord did not advise Nicodemus, as He did the rich young man, to leave his wealth and position and follow Him, but He pointed out the necessity of a change in his inner attitudes.

That Nicodemus remained true to the Lord is attested by his attempt to defend Him later (John 7:50) and by the fact that he was one of the two rich men who cared for the Lord's body after the crucifixion (John 19:39). The Lord always recognizes our outward circumstances and the limitations they impose on us. Recall the permission given to Naaman the Syrian by Elisha (2 Kings 5:18-19) and the Lord's prayer for His disciples: "I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil." (John 17:15)

We know that throughout the Word natural birth and development are analogous to regeneration, but the Jews had no such knowledge, although more ancient people had had it (@AC 4904[2]). Regeneration, which means rebirth, does not take place suddenly and all at once, but gradually and progressively, like natural conception, birth, and growth. Nothing could be clearer than Swedenborg's explanation of the Lord's teaching in our lesson: "No one can come into the kingdom of God unless he has been born again, for the reason that man by inheritance from his parents is born into evils of every kind, but with an ability to become spiritual by the removal of those evils; and unless he becomes spiritual, he cannot come into heaven. From being natural to become spiritual is to be born again or regenerated." (@DP 83) "Man is not born of his parents into spiritual life, but into natural life. Spiritual life consists in loving God above all things, and in loving his neighbor as himself, and this according to the precepts of faith, which the Lord has taught in the Word. But natural life consists in loving ourselves and the world more than the neighbor, yea, more than God Himself." (@NJHD 174) See also @NJHD 179 below. A detailed explanation of verses 5 to 8 of our chapter is given in @AC 10240.

We are familiar with the teaching concerning reformation and regeneration, for we had it in the stories of the wilderness wanderings and the conquest of the Holy Land. Reformation is the first part, our first duty, the setting in order of our outward lives in accordance with the truths of the Word. Regeneration begins when we begin to try to recognize and fight our inner foes, the evils and falsities in our hearts and minds, enabling the Lord's spirit to enter as we drive out the things which oppose it. This inflow of the Lord's spirit is compared to the wind. We do not see it but we are conscious of its effects. It may be noted that it is the same word in the Greek which is translated "spirit" in most of the chapter and "wind" in verse 8, the context suggesting the change in translation. The Greek word has both meanings. The same lesson is taught in the brief parable in Mark 4:26-29. Reformation and regeneration are also described in the work of John the Baptist and that of the Lord, and John the Baptist uses words similar to those in our chapter in Matthew 3:11. That only the Lord's spirit has power to raise men into heaven is taught in verses 11 to 15. The brazen serpent lifted up in the wilderness for the healing of the people was a symbol of the Lord's sensual nature which He lifted up by conquering all its temptations, thus showing us the way to heaven. The human which He took on in the world was in the inverted order described above, but in His life in the world He progressively glorified it, that we might see what the true order is and form our lives according to it. By the second birth, the birth of a new character from the Lord's spirit working within us, we become children of our heavenly Father. "But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name: which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God."

Naturally we think of those teachings of the Word which oppose our selfish impulses as hard. The Lord seems to condemn. Yet we have intelligence enough to see that this is not so. In Deuteronomy 6:24 we are told that the Lord commands us to keep His statutes and to fear Him "for our good always." The Lord came into the world in a human which He calls His Son to show us the nature of His love, to show us that He is always ready to give us His love if we will only open the way for it in our souls by putting aside the evils which shut Him out. He wants us to be happy, and He knows that happiness can never come through self-seeking. He teaches us this by every means in His power, by plain instruction, by parable, by miracle, by personal experience, by His own life in the world. If we believe in Him — really believe in Him so that we take His advice — we shall without fail be happy; we shall have "everlasting life." But if we do not believe in Him, we are "condemned," not by Him but by our own choice of worldliness and self-seeking, which are bound to lead us to unhappiness.

To believe in the Lord's "name" is to believe in His character, to believe that the love, humility, meekness, and gentleness which He manifested are truly divine characteristics, virtues to be cultivated. If we do not believe this, we are, as He says, "condemned already." For the love of self and the world which we cultivate instead of His virtues is in itself the fire of hell. Verses 19 to 21 are easily understood. We know that when we are bent upon having our own way, we will not listen to advice; we do not want the light of truth to show us that our way is wrong. This is the fundamental reason for disbelief in the Lord — unwillingness to recognize our evils and to correct our lives according to His teachings. Whenever we are anxious to cover up our deeds, or our thoughts, or our feelings, we may recognize it as a danger signal, for "he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God."

