
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a good opportunity to make sure that the Juniors understand who the scribes and Pharisees were and the reason for their attitude toward the Lord. They can also understand why Nicodemus came by night. The more important lessons in the Lord's words to Nicodemus can at least be suggested. There are several helpful Bible references for them to look up.

---
In Gospel times what two groups were considered the religious leaders?

The scribes were men who made copies of the Scriptures and also interpreted and taught them. The Pharisees were a sect who prided themselves on being more strictly religious than others. The Lord called both the scribes and the Pharisees hypocrites. A hypocrite is a person who pretends to be something he is not.

What had the scribes and Pharisees done to the Scriptures?

In our lesson for today who came to the Lord by night?

What two things do we learn about Nicodemus in the first verse?

A "ruler" of the Jews was a member of the Sanhedrin, the supreme council of seventy members who decided all religious matters. Most of the rulers rejected the claim of Jesus to be the promised Messiah. They wanted and expected a Messiah who would make their nation great again and so increase their own power and glory. When the Lord instead told them they must change their own ways, they tried in every possible way to discredit Him. As they could not deny the fact that He performed miracles, they claimed that His power came from the devil.

But there were at least two members of the Sanhedrin who did not agree with the rest. One was Nicodemus and the other Joseph of Arimathea. Read John 7:45-53 and Luke 23:50-52. Nicodemus was an honest man and could see that the power Jesus exercised must come from God, but he was not quite brave enough to stand openly against the opinions of those with whom he had to associate every day. So he came to the Lord secretly — by night.

Notice that the Lord gave him an answer before he even asked a question. The Lord always knows what is in our minds. Nicodemus was concerned about the way to heaven.

What did the Lord tell him?

What kind of birth did He say was necessary?

Do you remember who baptized with water?

What had John the Baptist said about the Lord's baptism? (John 1:33)

To be "born of water and of the Spirit" means to have both our outward and our inward life — our conduct and our thoughts and feelings — made pure and good by obeying the teachings of the Lord. The Holy Ghost or Holy Spirit is the Lord's Spirit working in us.

The story of the serpent in the wilderness referred to in verses 14 and 15 you will find in Numbers 21:5-9. A serpent, which goes along on the ground, is a symbol of our bodily senses, which are always in contact with the physical world. The Lord showed us what our life in this world is for and how we should use it. He is the example which we should always hold up before us. This is what He means by comparing Himself to the serpent in the wilderness.

The teaching of the Lord in verses 14 to 21 you will understand better when you are older, but you can see a little of its meaning now if you will read John 18:37. The Lord came into the world to teach and to live out the truth so that we may know surely what it is, and be free to do right or wrong by our own choice. Those who reject the Lord do so of their own free will, because they do not want to know and obey the truth. And if we reject the truth and so do wrong, the consequences of our wrong deeds are not from the Lord but of our own making.

The second birth of which the Lord told Nicodemus, which is also called regeneration, is the process of learning the Lord's laws and making ourselves obey them until they have become a part of our very life. Then the love of right can come into our hearts from the Lord, and we can become truly His children.

Nicodemus remained faithful to the Lord all his life. Read John 19:38-42.

