
=== Senior

To the lesson suggested for the Intermediates add especially the suggestion made in the Senior notes on the basis of verse 8. Young people need this sort of weapon with which to meet skepticism and materialism. Swedenborg quotes this verse in @AC 10240 (where it reads "Spirit" in the first part of the verse where "wind" seems more reasonable, since an analogy is involved). [See, however, @AE 130, 183, and @AR 343 where ventus (wind) is used, and also @AC 8246, which says "spirit" (or wind). -Editor]

In @DP 83 Swedenborg tells us: "No one can come into the kingdom of God unless he has been born again, for the reason that man by his inheritance from his parents is born into evils of every kind, but with an ability to become spiritual by the removal of those evils; and unless he becomes spiritual he cannot come into heaven. From being natural to become spiritual is to be born again or regenerated." Elsewhere (New Jerusalem and Its Heavenly Doctrine, n. 174): "Man is not born of his parents into spiritual life, but into natural life. Spiritual life consists in loving God above all things, and in loving his neighbor as himself, and this according to the precepts of faith which the Lord has taught in the Word. But natural life consists in loving ourselves and the world more than the neighbor, yea, more than God Himself."

Nicodemus was a good man. His comments and questions show clearly the obscurity into which even the good had fallen when the Lord came into the world. He knew of no other birth than natural birth, and could not understand what the Lord meant when He said one must be born of water and of the spirit. People today are often handicapped in the same way by the materialism of our times. Verse 8 of our chapter suggests a good answer to those who say, "How can I believe in spiritual things which I cannot see?" We cannot see the wind, but we are sure it exists because we see and feel its effects. We can all likewise — if we use our reason — see and feel the effects of spiritual forces.

We can connect the Lord's words with John the Baptist's statement (Matthew 3:11): "I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire." The baptism with water is the cleansing of the outward life, the baptism with the Holy Ghost (or Holy Spirit) the purification of the thoughts, and the baptism with fire the replacing of self-love by love to the Lord and the neighbor.

The Lord came into the world as divine truth. In the internal sense Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are divine love, divine wisdom, and divine proceeding or operation in the world, a trinity to which will, thought, and act in each of us are analogous. Divine truth is the light of the world. If we recognize and obey it, we walk in the light. If we reject it, we walk in darkness.

The teaching in verses 18 to 21 is very clear and really gives us the whole doctrine concerning judgment. How anyone can read it and believe in predestination is hard to see — or for that matter in punishment as coming from God or in universal salvation or in faith alone.

The Lord as the truth came into the world that men might know the way with certainty. The only reason why men have rejected Him is because they "loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." There are no rational grounds for rejecting the Lord — only selfish grounds. It is wholly a matter of our free choice. From the beginning the Lord has always given men light for their way if they were willing to use it. Jeremiah wrote: "And the Lord hath sent unto you all his servants the prophets, rising early and sending them; but ye have not hearkened, nor inclined your ear to hear."

There is a lesson for us, too, in the fact that Nicodemus came to the Lord by night. It was, of course, a symbol of his ignorance, but it also showed his unwillingness to face the consequences of showing his real opinion in public. Whenever we feel ourselves unwilling to be "open" in our dealing, it is time to take stock of ourselves. We may, like Nicodemus, be thinking rightly but ashamed to stand up for what we think. Or we may be selfish in our thoughts and feelings and trying to pretend that we are not. In either case something needs correction. The Lord knows our weaknesses and deals with us very kindly, trying to lead us to face ourselves honestly. Notice that although he did not charge Nicodemus with his cowardice, His instruction led finally to the statement in verse 21, which clearly pointed out his fault. Read John 7:45-53, which shows that Nicodemus at least made an effort to support the Lord after this, and also John 19:39, which shows us that Nicodemus remained a faithful follower of the Lord.

