
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Adult notes suggest several common questions which this story helps us to answer. These make good discussion topics. The teacher should also call attention to the connection of the story with the events which immediately followed it, especially in its bearing upon the attitude of the multitude on Palm Sunday and upon the determination of the chief priests to dispose of the Lord. Help will be found here in the Older Teen notes.

---
Three instances of the Lord's power to raise the dead are recorded in the Gospels: the raising of the widow's son at Nain (Luke 7:11-16); the raising of the daughter of Jairus (Matthew 9:18-26; Mark 5:22-43; Luke 8:41-56); and the raising of Lazarus, which is recorded only in John. The first two were performed in Galilee, and picture the Lord's power to restore to life the dead thoughts and affections of the external plane of our lives. But Lazarus lived in Bethany, close to Jerusalem, and was a beloved friend of the Lord, the brother of Mary and Martha, at whose house the Lord was often entertained, and this miracle pictures a more internal and spiritual work. In our reading of the story we should note that the scene is laid close to Jerusalem, that the time is near the end of the Lord's earthly life, that those concerned are believers and close friends of the Lord, and that throughout the story the Lord discloses to us the purpose governing the events. We should also note that, although many believed because of this miracle, those who opposed the Lord became even more violent against Him as a result of it. This illustrates the truth of Abraham's statement to the rich man in hell (Luke 16:31): "If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead." The same parable is further linked to our story by the fact that the beggar is called Lazarus, and Swedenborg tells us that the Lord chose the name for the beggar in the parable because of the Lazarus of our story, whom He loved (@AC 9231[3]; @AE 137[2]; @DSS 40[3]).

Throughout the story it is evident that the miracle was performed not in order that Lazarus might enjoy a few more years in this world, but that the disciples might see the Lord's power over death. This is the most obvious and external lesson which we may draw from the miracle. It is a fact that all life is from the Lord, that our times are in His hand (Psalm 31:15), that not a sparrow falls to the ground without our Father (Matthew 10:29). But the life of the body is of relative unimportance in relation to the life of the soul. In fact, the life of the soul scarcely becomes apparent until after the death of the body. So the angels, reading the Word, understand resurrection where we read "death," and death in a good sense always signifies resurrection. There is another kind of death, which is sometimes called in the Word the "second death." This is spiritual death, death to goodness and truth, resulting when evil in the will becomes conjoined to falsity in the understanding. From this death also the Lord wishes to raise us, and has power to raise us if we will believe in Him and obey Him. "For I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth, saith the Lord God: wherefore turn yourselves, and live ye." (Ezekiel 18:32)

When the Lord came into the world, His truth had been so perverted by the religious leaders that even those who wished to do right were threatened with this spiritual death, because they could not find the truth by which to live. This state is pictured in our story. Martha and Mary represent the desire to serve the Lord — Martha an external type and Mary a more internal, spiritual type of affection. Their brother Lazarus pictures such truth as they had, and the fact that he fell sick and died means that even that truth failed and was lost. They sent for the Lord, but He tarried until they thought Lazarus was gone beyond recall. There are many people today brought up in beliefs so mingled with falsity that their beliefs cannot survive the questions of their adult minds. When these people see their faith threatened, they often pray that it may not be taken from them, and feel that somehow the Lord might save it for them if He would, as Martha and Mary both cried, "Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died." But the Lord tarries purposely. He knows our condition, but He waits the fullness of time, until we are convinced that our old beliefs have no life in them. Then, if we continue to look to Him and believe in Him, as Martha and Mary did, He can perform the greater miracle of raising up our faith to new life and freeing it from the prejudices and habits of thought — the grave clothes — which had bound it in the sepulcher. Swedenborg tells us (@AC 2916[4]) that the raising of Lazarus "involves the raising up of a new church from the Gentiles." The ancient Jewish Church era had to be consummated before the first Christian Church could be raised up. The first Christian dispensation had to consummated before the New Church could be raised up. Each new church has developed among those who realized the deadness of the old but still believed in the Lord and turned to Him with trust and obedience.

In connection with the story of Lazarus we are taught why the Lord often does not answer our petitions immediately. It is because He has higher things in store for us than the particular thing we want. He said to the disciples, "And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe." The disciples, as well as Martha and Mary, felt that the Lord could have kept Lazarus from dying, but the Lord wanted to show them that He had even greater power. We must all learn to "rest in the Lord, and wait patiently for him" (Psalm 37:7), and we must learn that there is no bitterness of loss or depth of despair in which He cannot teach us and save us if we will let Him.

Then we have the Lord's answer to those who believe that all are to remain in their graves until some final resurrection day. For He told Martha, "I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." We know that this does not refer to the death of the body, for everyone must lay aside the material body before he can become really conscious of the life of heaven, but that it refers to spiritual death, the shutting out from the soul of the Lord's life, that life which alone can give eternal happiness. Those who live and believe in the Lord, whose hearts and minds are ordered according to His laws, are conscious of no interruption of that heavenly life when they lay aside the material body. For "this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." (John 17:3)

Again, our story suggests the answer to the question, "If Jesus was God, why did He pray to the Father, and why did He appear to suffer?" Our story tells us that Jesus "groaned in the spirit, and was troubled," and that "Jesus wept," and in John 11:41 we are told that he "lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me." But He goes on immediately: "And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me." We know that the Lord, while He was in the world, was clothed with a finite humanity like ours. Bruce$ suggests that such manifestations as His groaning and weeping were the natural reactions of the finite humanity to the working of the Divine within, just as our efforts to live according to what we know of divine love and truth produce struggle and grief in our lower, selfish natures. The Lord, while He was in the world, did humanly grieve over the waywardness and faithlessness and blindness of those He sought to save - this was one of His most severe temptations — and in this story we are allowed to see it outwardly manifested, because we need to understand and recognize that the Lord underwent such a temptation and overcame it, refusing to tamper with the free will which His wisdom had implanted in man. We sometimes feel this temptation to bring people to our way of thinking by force. The Lord shows us His struggle and then immediately the victory and its source by His thanksgiving to the Father.

[*Rev. William Bruce, Commentary on the Gospel of John, pp. 264-265. -Editor]

