
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The young people should be shown how clearly the Lord teaches that the death of the body does not interrupt the life of a person, and that He is always in control. Include the correspondences presented in the Easter lesson and show how they apply here. Call attention to the attitude of the chief priests and Pharisees and show how this lesson leads into the crucifixion of the Lord.

---
The miracle of our lesson for today was performed near the end of the Lord's life on earth. In verse John 11:55 we read, "And the Jews' Passover was nigh at hand," and the next chapter tells of the Lord's coming to Jerusalem for this Passover and entering the city as a king, welcomed by the multitude — our Palm Sunday lesson. In that chapter (chapter 12) we are also told that many of the multitude had come more to see Lazarus than to see the Lord. We can well imagine how widely the miracle was discussed.

The scene of the miracle was Bethany, a little town about two miles from Jerusalem. You may remember this from the story of Mary and Martha (Luke 10:38-42). The Lord was in the habit of lodging at their house when He came to Jerusalem for the feasts, and it was there that He lodged during the last week of His life also. Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus all believed the Lord to be the Messiah. They knew of His miracles of healing, and it was natural that they should send word to Him when Lazarus was taken sick. As we see from our chapter, both the sisters felt sure that the Lord would have healed Lazarus if only He had come in time, but neither of them imagined that He had power to restore their brother to life after he had lain four days in the tomb. They had the same material thoughts that everyone else had, and supposed that life was in the physical body, and that after their brother's body had begun to decay, he could not live again until all men's physical bodies should be raised to life again at the "last day." You will find that, in spite of the Lord's teaching, many people still believe this today.

The Lord tells us that He purposely waited before going to Bethany (John 11:14-15). Twice before He had raised someone from the dead (Luke 7:11-15; Luke 8:41-42, 49-56), but in one of these cases the miracle was performed almost immediately after death and in the other so soon after that the body was not yet buried. The raising of Lazarus was to carry a step further the disciples' understanding of the Lord's power over life. It should have prepared them to expect His own resurrection, but we know that it did not, and this is one of the things which teaches us how hard it is for anyone who has let himself become absorbed in the things of the material world to be brought to understand and believe in spiritual things, which are after all the real things.

Jesus told Martha: "I am the resurrection and the life." The Lord alone is life, as we learned in the first chapter of John (John 1:4); and all our life, and all the apparent life of the physical world comes from Him moment by moment. Before He went to Bethany He said to His disciples: "Our friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go that I may awake him out of sleep"; then He said: "Lazarus is dead." What we call death is really only a short sleep from which we wake to consciousness in the spiritual world instead of in this. None of us should fear it. The Lord knows when each one of us has made all the preparation for eternal life that he is willing and able to make. Every once in a while we read in the papers of someone who has apparently died and then, by massage of the heart or some such treatment, has been restored to life. And we know that often people who have apparently drowned are resuscitated. In all such cases we may think that the Lord is saying, as He said of Lazarus in John 11:4: "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God." The person resuscitated and also those around him have something to learn from the experience.

The Easter lesson contains all the correspondences we need know for our study of the meaning of this miracle: the tomb, the stone, and the grave-clothes. Whenever we are faced with the death of someone we love, we should remember that in the Word death and burial signify resurrection, and we should try to "think as angels think, and feel as angels feel"; that is, think of the person waking to fuller and more beautiful life and rejoice with him, even while we naturally grieve that we ourselves shall not see him for a while.

Read carefully John 11:4, 15, 41, and 42 to see how plainly the Word shows us that the Lord stands guard over all the experiences that come to us and wishes us to learn from them.

But we do not learn if our minds are full of self and of our success in the world. Read John 11:47-53 to see how the Pharisees took the news of the raising of Lazarus, and read John 12:10, 11 to see how far their self-interest led them. The Lord has given every human being two great gifts: freedom and rationality. [Note: Rationality is the ability to distinguish between right and wrong; freedom (or liberty) is the ability to make our own choices between right and wrong as we are confronted by good and evil day by day. -Editor]

Each one of us, if he is to be what he is created to be, must first decide freely to believe the Lord and obey Him instead of letting selfishness rule his life, and then he must study the Word and think about all he reads there, and in this new age he must also study what the Lord in His Second Coming has taught us concerning its true meaning.

