
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The principal lessons to be impressed on the Juniors are that our life here is given us as a time of free choice of God or self, that death is not to be feared, that the Lord decides when it is best for us to leave this world, and that no one can be convinced by miracles who does not want to obey the Lord.

---
Our lesson today is about another miracle — perhaps the most striking one of all. The story is told only in the Gospel of John. It happened very near the end of the Lord's life on earth, for at the end of the chapter we are told that the Passover feast was at hand, and in the beginning of chapter 12 we have the story of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday.

Where did Lazarus live?

Who were his sisters?

To whom did they send when Lazarus became sick?

Bethany was a little town about two miles from Jerusalem, and it was at the home of Mary and Martha and Lazarus that the Lord was in the habit of lodging when He went to Jerusalem. In our lessons from Luke we had a story about Mary and Martha. If you have forgotten it, read it in Luke 10:38-42. Read also John 12:1-8, which explains verse John 11:2.

Did the Lord go at once to Bethany when He heard that Lazarus was sick?

What did He first say to His disciples about Lazarus?

When we die, we do merely go to sleep in this world and wake up in the spiritual world, which we know is our real home and a much more beautiful and happy world than this one. We live in this world for a few years to learn how to live and to make our free choice of the kind of people we want to be. It is right that we should want to stay here as long as we can in the effort to become better and better ourselves and more and more useful to other people. But we should never be afraid of death. In fact we should all, if we are trying to do right, look forward to the day when the Lord can say to us, as He said to the man in the parable (Matthew 25:21): "Well done, thou good and faithful servant ... enter thou into the joy of thy lord." For it is always the Lord who decides just when it is best for us to leave this world.

In the case of Lazarus the Lord knew that this time had not really come. We learn this from John 11:4. Lazarus did die, but the Lord planned to wake him again in this world instead of in the other.

What reason does the Lord give in John 11:4?

When the Lord reached Bethany, how long had Lazarus been in the tomb?

What did Martha say when she met the Lord?

What did the Lord tell her?

When did Martha think Lazarus would rise?

What did the Lord say?

What did Mary say when she came to the Lord?

Both Martha and Mary believed firmly that Jesus was the Messiah and they knew He had performed many miracles. He had twice before brought back to life someone who had been pronounced dead. We have studied one of these stories (Luke 7:11-15). The other is told in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Read it in Luke 8:41-42, 49-56. Martha and Mary may have known of these miracles, but both had been performed very soon after the death of the person. It never occurred to the two sisters that the Lord could restore their brother to them after he had been buried for four days. Martha's words in John 11:39 of our chapter show what their thought was.

How did Lazarus appear when he came out of the tomb?

What did the Lord tell the people to do?

What effect did the miracle have on many who saw it?

You should read the next few verses (John 11:47-53) to see the different effect of this miracle on the chief priests and Pharisees. You can see that they knew that the story was true, but their only thought was of how to preserve their own power with the people and the favor of the Roman governor. Miracles never convince anyone who does not want to obey the Lord.

