
=== Primary

Introduce the characters in the story and then read the lesson from the Word. Talk about what death really is and about the beautiful world which is prepared for us; do not fail to emphasize that we must learn here to be heavenly people if we are to live in heaven when we die. The teacher should try to find out what the children know of death, and let that lead into a discussion of what death really is, the spiritual world, and the purpose of our life here.

Often when the Lord went to Jerusalem for any of the great feasts, He did not sleep in Jerusalem, but at night went out to Bethany, a little town about two miles from Jerusalem, and stayed with some dear friends He had there. These friends were a man named Lazarus and his two sisters, Martha and Mary. They are mentioned several times in the Gospels. Our story today is about something that happened to them and a miracle which the Lord performed.

What had happened to Lazarus?

Why did the Lord wait to go to Bethany until after Lazarus had died?

Who went out to meet Him?

What did Martha say when she met the Lord?

What did she think about the resurrection of the dead?

What did the Lord tell her?

When they came to the grave, what did the Lord tell them to do?

What did the Lord say when they took away the stone?

What happened?

When anyone we love dies, we feel very sad because we know how much we shall miss him and what a change in our lives his going will make. This is a natural feeling and not wrong, but we must be sure that we do not let ourselves feel that the Lord ought not to have let our friend die. The Lord always does what is best for every one of us.

The Lord raised Lazarus from the dead to teach us two things which we must always remember. One is that, as John 11:25 tells us, He is the "resurrection and the life." All life comes from the Lord. The other is that no one ever really dies. When a person is said to die, it just means that he is waking up in the spiritual world instead of here on earth. And the spiritual world is much more beautiful and happy than this one. We live here on earth for just a few years to learn to be the kind of people the Lord wants us to be, and then the Lord can let us wake up in the other world and find the homes where we shall live - always very beautiful homes if we have been good.

