
=== Senior

It is very important that young people form as early as possible the right habit of looking at death. A clear understanding and firm faith will enable them to decide more easily many problems and also to help those who have not had the same spiritual opportunities which they have had.

---
Recall the story of the Lord's healing of the man blind from birth, the effect this miracle had on the man himself and the quite different effect it had on the religious leaders around him. Our story today gives us a still more striking example of the same lesson. It happened very near the end of the Lord's life on earth. In the letter it is closely associated with the Palm Sunday lesson (John 12:9), and in its significance with the Easter lesson. It also gives us (John 11:47-53) the final reason why the chief priests and Pharisees determined that they must destroy the Lord.

As you grow older, if you continue to read the Gospels over and over again, you will be struck with the way in which the Lord's power as well as His consciousness of His divine nature increased with His overcoming of the successive temptations which came to Him through His assumed human. You remember perhaps that when He was twelve years old, He said to Mary and Joseph when they found Him tarrying with the doctors in the temple: "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" (Luke 2:49). Now, just before the final scenes of His earthly life, He can say to Martha: "I am the resurrection and the life," and presently (John 14:9) to Philip: "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father."

Yet we can also see in our chapter that something of the assumed humanity still remained with Him, for He wept and also groaned, and weeping and groaning, although they are often produced by love, are not characteristics of infinity. We learn from this chapter that the Lord permitted Himself to do and say many things because of their effect on those around Him. With this in mind read John 11:4,6, 11-15, 41-42.

The Lord had twice before raised someone from the dead (Luke 7:11-15; Luke 8:49-56), but in neither case had the person been buried. In the minds of the people this would make a great difference in the effect of the miracle, for the people of that day, as we know, were wholly external in their ideas, and believed that life was in the body and could not exist apart from it. Even Martha and Mary — who were friends of the Lord, knew of His miracles, and believed Him to be the Messiah — could not imagine that any power could restore life to a body which had begun to decay. The raising of Lazarus ought to have made the disciples realize that the Lord Himself could not be subject to extinction by death, but we know that it did not. Only His own resurrection finally opened their eyes.

The lesson for us in this story is simple and clear. The Lord spoke the truth equally when He said, "Our friend Lazarus sleepeth," and when He said, "Lazarus is dead." When we die, we merely go to sleep in this world, just as we go to sleep every night, and we wake up refreshed and rested and ready for another day — only instead of waking in this world to go on trying to cope with our earthly problems and fighting temptations, we wake in a far more beautiful and happy world, with our problems and temptations behind us. Death is always a blessing for the one who dies.

The time had not come when the Lord thought best to take Lazarus to his eternal home. There was still work for him to do and progress for him to make in this world. Read John 11:4, which teaches this plainly. Our times are in the Lord's hand (Psalm 31:15). This does not mean, as some people think, that a particular moment for our death is set in advance and that nothing we can do makes any difference. Every choice we make from day to day and also the choices which other people make play a part in determining the time when the Lord sees that it is better for us and for others that we wake in the spiritual world instead of in this. And the death of someone we love always presents us with a new series of choices. We can lament and rebel against what has happened, or we can let it draw us closer to heaven and the Lord. This life is our time of choice and preparation. It is right that we should want it to be long. But we should also trust the Lord to do what is best. We should always think of death as a natural and good step in our lives, for it is only the end of our stay in "kindergarten." In Psalm 90 we read: "So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom ... O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days."

