
=== Intermediate

The meaning of Isaac, and the meaning of Abraham's temptation and the reason for it, should be stressed. The outline of the correspondence of his journey and its conclusion can be given. The thought to leave in the minds of the pupils is that of the true meaning of sacrifice.

The Lord had promised that all the land of Canaan should belong to the descendants of Abraham. Yet Abraham and Sarah were very old and still had no son. Chapter 16 of Genesis tells how Sarah was troubled by this and offered Abraham her handmaid, Hagar, in the hope that Hagar might bear him a son. Abraham had grown up among the corrupt descendants of the Ancient Church and had many false ideas in his mind. One of these was that it was allowable for a man to have more than one wife. This is even today the belief in many of the nations whose religion has come down from that time. Hagar did bear Abraham a son, who was named Ishmael, but the Lord told him that Ishmael should not be his heir; and in their old age Sarah bore Isaac.

Abraham was the beginning of a new church — a church on the natural plane of life. The story of Abraham in general pictures our very early childhood when we look to our parents for everything and know only that it is wrong to disobey them. With Ishmael and Isaac a new period in our lives begins: the period in which we begin to think for ourselves and to reason about right and wrong. At first our reasoning is based only on what Swedenborg calls "appearances" - how things look. If a thing seems pleasant, we judge that it is right. But later we develop a higher kind of reasoning based on what the Lord tells us in the Word. These two are called the "natural" reason and the "spiritual" reason. Ishmael represents the first and Isaac the second. Ishmael mocked Isaac and had to be sent away to live in the wilderness, while Isaac inherited the Holy Land. We have to keep Ishmael in his place and to recognize that it is Isaac through whom the good life must be developed.

Now we come to our lesson for today. When Isaac was still a young boy, it is said that "God did tempt Abraham." We need to know that the Bible is written for the most part in terms of "appearances" of truth — that is, truth as it seems to our limited human minds. Abraham, like many people, believed that God was directly responsible for everything that came to him, both good and evil. You hear people say, "Why did God send this trial to me?" But God does not tempt us. The bad things that come to us, and all our temptations, come from evil either in ourselves or in others. Actually the Lord withholds us from many temptations - from every temptation which He sees we are not strong enough to resist. But we grow by doing hard things; so He lets us feel the consequences of our bad feelings and wrong thoughts as far as we are really able to learn from them. This is temptation. You know that if your mother and father did everything for you and never let you do anything for yourself, you would not grow up to be a very strong person in character.

What really happened with Abraham was this: He wanted to serve the Lord wholly; he had in his mind the idea, which came from the religion in which he had been brought up, that sacrifices of animals and even of human beings were pleasing to God; so the desire to show his devotion to the Lord took the form of the thought that he ought to sacrifice his dearest possession, which was Isaac. The Lord permitted this thought to come to his mind and permitted him to go a long way toward carrying it out, because it was useful for Abraham to prove the sincerity of his devotion to the Lord. Their journey took three days, which is a picture of completeness of any state, and the place to which they went was Mount Moriah, which was later to be the site of Solomon's temple within the city of Jerusalem. That is, Abraham's desire to serve the Lord wholly took him finally to a state which was to become the highest state his people would reach. First he "rose up early in the morning" (the morning picturing the beginning of a new state); then he "saddled his donkey" (got control of his natural ideas — the meaning of the donkey — which otherwise would perhaps have borne him in another direction); then he took the wood (the feeling that he was doing right), and two of his young men (thoughts that he had about the way to do right), and Isaac (his higher reasoning faculty, which was still very young). But when he reached Mount Moriah, he left the donkey and the young men behind him, and in addition to Isaac and the wood, he took fire and a knife, which picture love and truth, up to the top with him, and there he built his altar. When we want to do something good, we often start with very imperfect ideas of how to do it; but if we persevere, gradually our feelings and thoughts become purer, and when we get really to the point of doing the thing, the Lord sometimes shows us suddenly a much better thing to do. Perhaps you have not had such an experience yet, but you will have; and when you do, you will remember how the Lord stopped Abraham just as he had raised the knife to slay his son, and showed him instead the ram which had been caught in the thicket by its horns. To slay Isaac would have been a wrong thing: it would picture destroying our higher rational faculty; that is, ceasing to think and reason about our religion. But the ram pictures a kind of love of truth which is innocent — a reasoning which does not destroy our God—given minds but lifts them up into true service of the Lord. This ram had been caught in a thicket, and Swedenborg tells us that a thicket pictures natural ideas.

Here is an example which will help you to understand what this story means. We have recently read the first eleven chapters of the Bible. Natural ideas about the Bible lead us to question the truth of the stories in those chapters; and if that is all we have, we must either give up our belief in the Bible or refuse to think and reason about it. Our love of truth is "tangled in the thicket," and we are about to "sacrifice Isaac" in order to prove our devotion to the Lord. But with the help of the new knowledge the Lord has given us of the true meaning of the Bible, we can untangle the ram and lift it up on the altar as an offering to the Lord. The word sacrifice means "to make sacred." All our faculties arc given us to use, but to use in the service of the Lord and under his guidance.

