
=== Notes for Parents

The Lord performed a miracle for Abraham and Sarah, enabling Sarah to bear a son when she was ninety years old and Abraham a hundred. By command of the Lord the boy was named Isaac, which means "laughter." (Read Genesis 17:15-19; 21:3,6.) Naturally Isaac was deeply loved by his parents. But when he was still a young boy, a strange idea came into Abraham's mind. He believed it came from God, and so the Bible says, "God did tempt Abraham." We all tend to think that our troubles are "sent" by the Lord. Really they are always the result of evils either in us or in other people, and the Lord saves us from all but those He sees may help us to learn lessons we need.

The people from whom Abraham came and the people living about him in Canaan believed the Lord to be a "jealous" God who needed to be pacified by sacrifices of animals, and sometimes by the sacrifice of their own children. Abraham naturally had many such false ideas in his own mind. So his desire to prove his complete devotion to the Lord took the form of the thought that he ought to sacrifice his dearest possession, which was Isaac. The story of his journey and of how the Lord stopped him at the last moment is our lesson for today. Read again Genesis 22:12 to see why the Lord permitted Abraham to go almost to the point of the actual killing of his son.

We are told in the writings of Swedenborg that the people of the corrupted Ancient Church had the idea of sacrifice so ingrained in their minds that the best the Lord could do for them and for the church which followed was to teach them to sacrifice animals instead of human beings. That is one reason why the letter of the Old Testament is so full of laws regarding the birds and animals to be offered. But we should know that all these animals and birds and all the details of the laws for their offering represent spiritual things, and that even the word sacrifice does not mean to kill or even to "give up," but rather to "make holy." When we live our lives from day to day in love to the Lord and the neighbor, we are making the sacrifices commanded in the Word.

It is interesting to know that Mount Moriah, where Abraham went for his sacrifice, was the hill which long afterward became part of the city of Jerusalem and which was the site on which Solomon built the Temple.

