
=== Adult

Naaman's leprosy and its cure are the best discussion topic. They picture a common state and need in our modern life. Elisha's first treatment of Naaman points up the fact that the Word remains closed until we choose to obey its simplest precepts.

The story of Naaman the Syrian is a striking one. It is explained in some detail in @AE 475[18] (see the quotation below). In Luke 4:27 the Lord Himself refers to this story, suggesting that it was easier for Naaman the Gentile to be healed than for the many lepers that were in Israel; this is a part of His condemnation of the people of Nazareth for not receiving Him. We know that the good Gentiles in the Word represent those who wish to be good but do not know how, from no fault of their own. When Syria is an enemy of Israel it pictures falsification of the knowledges of truth and good through dependence upon human instead of upon divine wisdom.

Naaman was a leper. In @AC 6963 we read that leprosy pictures "the profanation of truth" and that "to believe in truths and to live contrary to them is to profane them." According to that definition, we are all lepers, for not one of us lives up to all the truth he knows and believes in. Yet we may all be like Naaman, desiring to be clean and willing to go to the Word for the means. The "lepers of Israel" picture those who do not wish to amend their lives. Chapters 13 and 14 of Leviticus enumerate many forms of leprosy, some curable and some incurable, and give the laws relating to them in detail. So there are many kinds and degrees of profanation, forms which may be corrected, and deeper forms, even to the "unforgivable sin" (Luke 12:10). @DP 231 gives us a very interesting account of seven types of profanation.

Naaman's leprosy was presumably one of the milder forms, since it apparently did not interfere with his office as captain of the king's army or with his family life. The means of his being led to go to Elisha is interesting — the little maid who had been carried captive out of Israel. When, like the Syrians, we are confident of our own knowledge of what is right and of our ability to direct our own lives, we often attack Israel — that is, we argue against the authority of the teachings of the church — and we feel that we are victorious. Sometimes in the process we acquire some little affection for some of the things of the church which we can make serve our own purposes. And we all have some remains of innocent affection left from our early childhood. The Lord uses these, when we wake to our spiritual need, to direct us to the Word.

Naaman went first to the king of Israel, offering to purchase healing from him. In the same way, people in need are likely to go first to the most obvious representative of religion in their community, with the idea of "getting into church work" without searching out "the prophet" — that is, without trying to find out what the Word really teaches. They are not only disappointed themselves, but they often make trouble for the organization to which they have turned, as Naaman frightened the king by demands which the king could not satisfy.

The Jordan pictures the simple precepts which introduce people into the Holy Land of spiritual living — especially the commandments. We cannot enter this land without obeying the commandments. Naaman expected Elisha to come out and show him some special manifestation of power, but Elisha merely sent him a message. The Word is no respecter of persons. It does not have one method for the rich and another for the poor. It offers no one instantaneous regeneration. It says to every person alike, "Go and wash in Jordan seven times" — that is, "Go, learn the commandments and keep them faithfully until they shall have had time to do their work in your life — until your life is clean in the sight of God." But Naaman was angry and said, "Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean?" We do not like to submit simply to the commandments. We like to think that our own ideas of right and wrong are better. Men think the world has outgrown the commandments, that new conditions demand new standards. Abana and Pharpar picture man-made ideas of right and wrong. But Naaman's servants persuaded him to try the prophet's prescription. So, when we reach the point where we realize that we must have some new knowledge, some new way of life, that we need the help of the Lord, our common sense should tell us at least to try the simple method which has cured men and women for ages. "My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it?" How prone we are to demand some new, startling, heroic mode of life! But steady, persistent obedience to the Lord's laws is the only road to a clean life, the only road to any real life. We simply do not know better than the Lord. "O Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself: it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps."

When Naaman had been healed, he went back to thank the prophet and offered to reward him, but Elisha would accept nothing. This is one of the many passages in the Word which teach that we can never pay our debt to the Lord. Whatever righteousness we may attain is not ours, but the Lord's in us. The Lord gives us His gifts freely and our part is merely to keep ourselves in a state in which we are capable of receiving them and transmitting them to our neighbor. So Naaman went away promising to serve the Lord. But presently Elisha's servant, Gehazi, caught up with him and accepted a reward from him on the pretext that it was needed by someone else. Sometimes we go through a spiritual experience which leaves us in a state of humility and gratitude to the Lord, but when we have gone "a little way," our natural selfishness catches up with us, demanding that we give ourselves some credit for our good behavior and supporting its claim with various pretenses. Naaman "lighted down from the chariot" to meet Gehazi, as we too often are ready to abandon the teaching which is carrying us forward in a new resolution because of the prompting of a selfish thought. But Elisha was not deceived by Gehazi's lies. The Word penetrates the excuses with which we seek to cover our selfishness. "The Lord looketh upon the heart." And then Gehazi was punished with Naaman's leprosy. In the light of the Word self-interest is seen for what it really is, a disease which, if not rooted out, will spread throughout the system until it deprives us of spiritual life.

