
=== Notes for Parents

We all know from our own experience what it is to have a divided mind. Sometimes we mean well but find that we do harm rather than good because we have in our minds wrong ideas of what ought to be done. And still more often perhaps we know in our minds what is right but do not want to do it. When heart and mind, i.e., will and understanding, are at variance in this way, our strength and peace both diminish. This is what is pictured by the division of Solomon's kingdom after he died — the division of the Holy Land of a heavenly character. The warmer southern kingdom represents the heart or will, and the northern kingdom the understanding. The southern kingdom, which was called Judah, remained faithful to the line of Solomon and kept its capital at Jerusalem, with the temple as its center of worship. But in the northern kingdom, which was called Israel, the very first king, Jeroboam, set up two golden calves for the people to worship, and all the succeeding kings continued in this idolatry. Our hearts are likely to cling for a long time to the worship of the Lord in which we have been brought up, but our minds tend to be led astray by worldly and selfish reasoning.

The Lord sent two great prophets to rebuke and warn the kings of Israel — first Elijah and after him Elisha. Our "prophet" is the Word of the Lord, and sometimes unfortunately we pay as little attention to it as the kings of Israel did to Elijah and Elisha. Often people outside the Christian church are more willing to hear the Word than we are. It is these good Gentiles who are pictured by Naaman the Syrian. He wanted very much to be healed of his leprosy, as the good Gentiles long to be spiritually clean. At first he could not believe that a simple thing like washing in the Jordan could cure him, and felt that the rivers of his own land must be just as good. This is a natural first reaction when one is told that faithful keeping of the commandments is the essential, and is better than all worldly reasoning. But once he was healed, he accepted Elisha's God wholeheartedly.

