
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Two parts of this lesson will lead to helpful discussion: the meaning for us of the raising of the widow's son, and the Lord's words concerning John the Baptist. Verses 29 and 30 help to point up His meaning.

---
We are all familiar with the Gospel story of the Lord's life.

Therefore, after following its basic outline in Matthew, we have tried in the other Gospels to pick out, for most of the lessons, stories which are told in only the one Gospel we are studying. It is interesting to look at the lists of the Lord's miracles and parables as given in the reference section of a teacher's Bible. The Gospel of Luke is preeminently noteworthy for its parables, giving us seventeen which are not found in any other Gospel, as well as ten of the more common ones. It is not known whether or not Luke came in direct contact with the Lord, as he is not mentioned in any Gospel narrative. He was one of the early Christians and a companion of Paul on some of his travels, and is generally believed to have been for seven years at least in charge of the group at Philippi in Macedonia, the first Christian Church established in Europe. Paul calls Luke "the beloved physician" (Colossians 4:14). His name indicates that he was not of Jewish descent. He is accepted as the writer of the book of Acts as well as of the third Gospel. His brief introduction to the first chapter of his Gospel (Luke 1:1-4) indicates that his memory-knowledge of the Lord's life and teaching was the result of eager application to all possible sources of information, but we know, of course, that his Gospel as recorded was set down under inspiration like the other three.

The first of the two miracles recorded in our chapter is also recorded in Matthew. From the point of view of healing, it is noteworthy as being a case in which the Lord healed at a distance with no physical contact with the person healed. This miracle is usually remembered, however, because of the Lord's comparison of the faith of the centurion with that of the Jews. The second miracle, the raising of the dead son of the widow of Nain, is one of the seven miracles recorded only in Luke. Both were performed in Galilee. The centurion's message was delivered to the Lord at Capernaum. Nain was a village not far from Nazareth. We remember that Galilee was called "Galilee of the Gentiles" and that it represents the outward life. The Roman conquerors also represent the life of the world, usually in its character of usurper of time and effort which should be devoted to higher things, but in the person of the centurion in its less common character of the friend and benefactor of the spiritual life. So the healing of the centurion's servant represents the restoration of some useful external ability through inspiration from the Lord.

The story of the widow of Nain teaches a similar lesson. Throughout the Scriptures a widow pictures a good desire which is bereft of the truth needed to support and make it productive. A son pictures a derivative truth. People who want to be good but have no true knowledge of the Lord and His purposes are easily deprived of such simple truths as they may have. They are easy to deceive and mislead and become a prey to evils. All of us are in this state so far as we are in ignorance of truth which we need in order to do good.

Swedenborg speaks of two kinds of resurrection: the natural, when a man's body is laid aside and he rises to life in the spiritual world, and the spiritual in which the life of the natural self-hood is put away and a new will is given from the Lord. "He that loseth his life for my sake shall find it." See the passage from @AE 899[11] below.

In the spiritual sense the sequence in the Word is always interesting. We have in the story about John the Baptist which immediately follows an illustration of the sort of distress pictured by the condition of the widow of Nain. John at this time has been cast into prison by Herod. His active preaching was ended, although his disciples still resorted to him in the prison. John is pictured as discouraged at the seeming frustration of his life work, even to the point of allowing himself to wonder if he could have been mistaken. How often when our own efforts for the church and for others seem to come to nought, we allow ourselves to wonder if our work and sacrifice have been worthwhile! John in prison could not see the Lord at work. When we are shut up within the narrow circle of our own accomplishment, we cannot see the Lord at work. The Lord allowed John's messengers to see the miracles His presence was accomplishing, as He will always let us see them if we are willing to face the fact that it is He and not we from whom the good is to come. This is the lesson taught in verse 28.

John the Baptist, like all the prophets, represented the letter of the Word. The letter of the Word is not a reed shaken with the wind, something which may be twisted to suit our passing desires and imaginings. It is not a man clothed in soft raiment; as long as we are in this world it will present to us truths which go harshly against our preferences. It is a prophet: it speaks for the Lord. And when we see it so, it becomes more than a prophet: it becomes the medium through which the Lord enters our minds and hearts.

Of the statement made in verse 28 Swedenborg says in @AC 9372[6]:

"That in the internal sense, or such as it is in heaven, the Word is in a degree above the Word in the external sense, or such as it is in the world, and such as John the Baptist taught, is signified by, 'he that is less in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he'; for as perceived in heaven the Word is of wisdom so great that it transcends all human apprehension."

