
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this class more should be done with the reason why the Lord performed miracles and with the correspondence of the miracles in our lesson, as well as with the meaning of the last part of the assignment.

---
To the messengers sent by John the Baptist the Lord cited His miracles as proof that He was the Messiah. The people of that day were a wholly materialistic and external people. Even those who longed for the coming of the Messiah had to have their faith confirmed by visible miracles. The Lord does not want us to require this external proof. We have a higher sight than that of the body. We know that the body is of secondary importance — only a tool for the soul. We need to keep it in as good condition as possible because of its usefulness, but it should never be of first concern to us. People who are always worrying about their health are not only unhappy but are seldom very useful.

The Lord had the power to perform physical miracles. He still has it and still performs them. It is the Lord's power which heals the body today, whenever He sees that continued life and health in this world will be good for us and for others. Both our life here and our continued life in the spiritual world after the death of the body are from the Lord alone. There is only one who is life.

But the miracles which the Lord performed when He was on earth had a twofold purpose. They did confirm the faith of those Jews and Gentiles who wished to believe in Him, and they also could be recorded in the Word to teach us the deeper lessons which we draw from their correspondence. So the centurion's servant is a picture of some useful faculty of ours which has suddenly failed us. If we have the real faith which the centurion had, we shall turn to the Lord for help, knowing that He has the power to restore us. All that is needed is the humble recognition of our own weakness and the conviction that "with God all things are possible. "

The other miracle in our lesson was performed for a widow.

We remember that in general men picture the understanding and women the affections. So a widow — and there are many widows mentioned in the Word — pictures some good desire which has lost the knowledge of truth which properly belongs with it. When this knowledge is lost, the ideas which spring from our desire have no life in them. People often say, "I wish I could believe in God and the Bible as I did when I was a little child." This merely means that they have allowed worldly thinking and living to kill the truths which were in their minds. In this state, only a realization of the Lord's presence and power in our lives can make the truths live again. The Lord restored to life the son of the widow of Nain to teach us just this lesson. If we realize our own weakness and ignorance and look to Him for help, He will restore our spiritual powers also.

It is not by accident that the verses about John the Baptist follow the story of this miracle. Nothing in the Word is accidental. Naturally, no miracles of the Lord aroused greater wonder and comment than those in which He brought back to life people who had already died. The people knew from the books of Kings (1 Kings 17:8-24 and 2 Kings 4:8-37) that Elijah and Elisha had each raised someone from the dead. But the time had come when they must be shown that the Lord was not a mere prophet but the Messiah Himself whom John had promised them. So the messengers came from John and received the assurance he asked for.

And then the Lord told the people that all John had said to them was true. The truth which the Lord gives us is not a reed shaken by the wind. Reeds, a simple growth on the water's edge, are pictures of the letter of the Word as it comes into our natural memory. They are shaken with the wind when we make the letter of the Word teach whatever we happen to want to believe instead of what the Lord means it to teach. And the Lord's truth is not always easy and pleasing to us in this world. Kings' courts, where soft clothing is worn, are found in heaven after we have overcome our evils. The letter of the Word is a prophet, speaking for the Lord. At first it comes to us like John the Baptist pointing out our evils, telling us to repent, and leading us to try to make our lives clean according to its truth. But when we have done this — this is what verse 28 means — and begin really to feel the Lord's spirit in our hearts, John the Baptist passes away, and we begin to grow in joy and peace from the Lord Himself.

