
=== Junior

The review and introductory material are covered in the questions in the Junior notes. The teacher should see that the pupils know the answers to all these questions. Both miracles in the chapter should be taken up in this class, but the first one with the emphasis on the question of faith. In the discussion of the raising of the widow's son have the children look up and read the three other stories suggested, and stress the Lord's control of life. Point out that it was from the Lord that power came to Elijah and Elisha. Use the last part of the reading for today to reinforce the review of John the Baptist.

Who was sent to fulfill the prophecy of Malachi about Elijah?

Who were John's parents?

By whom was Zacharias told what was to happen?

What sign was given him?

What do we call the first words he spoke after John's birth?

To whom else was the angel Gabriel sent?

What did he promise her?

What other familiar song of praise do we find in this chapter?

Now let us see how much you remember about the early life of the Lord.

Where was He born?

Where was He taken to save Him from Herod?

Where was He brought up?

Where did He appear in public when He was twelve years old?

How old was He when He began His public ministry?

Where did He find John?

What did He ask John to do for Him?

What sign was given from heaven at that time?

Where did the Lord spend forty days after He was baptized?

What happened to Him there?

After His temptations in the wilderness the Lord entered immediately upon His public ministry. He went about the country preaching, teaching, and healing. Today our lesson tells of two miracles. The word miracle means "a wonderful thing." The miracles in the Bible are wonders done by the Lord Himself. If we study them, we find that there are two conditions necessary to the healing of any person: he must recognize that he needs help, and he must believe that the Lord can help him.

A centurion was a Roman soldier who commanded a hundred men. The people hated their Roman conquerors as a rule, but they liked the particular centurion mentioned in our lesson for today.

Why?

What did the centurion ask the Lord to do for him?

How did he show his faith in the Lord?

What did the Lord do for him?

How did He say he was better than the people of Israel?

The other miracle in our lesson is even more wonderful. The widow, grieving for the loss of her only son, longed for help. The Lord has power over life because He is life itself. All our life comes from Him. When we are sick, it is really only the Lord who knows whether or not we shall recover. Many people have recovered after the doctors have given them up, and many people have died whom the doctors expected to recover. We know that what seems to us to be death is only the laying off of the body which we have used in this world, and that we always go right on living. We just go to sleep in this world and wake up in the spiritual world, where our souls have been all the time even though we were not conscious of it. In this miracle the Lord merely waked the widow's son again in the world. There are two similar miracles in the Old Testament and another in the New. Look up 1 Kings 17:8-24, 2 Kings 4:8-37, and Luke 8:41-42; 49-56. Both Elijah and Elisha, because they were faithful prophets, could use the Lord's power.

As we learn from Luke 3:19-20, John the Baptist had been cast into prison by Herod. While he was in prison, it must have seemed to John that he had failed, and he began to doubt his mission, and even whether it was really the Messiah whom he had seen and baptized. So he sent two of his disciples to the Lord.

What did they ask Him?

What did He answer?

What other miracles did He perform so they could give John a sure report?

Even the best of the people in those days, like John, judged everything according to the way it looked outwardly. So they needed to see miracles in order to confirm and strengthen their faith. But we can see with our reason that the Lord was the Messiah, God Himself come into the world. We do not need miracles to convince us, and this is a higher type of belief. For many people who saw the miracles did not believe in the Lord, as we see from the last two verses of our lesson.

What did the Lord tell the people about John?

