
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Follow the outline suggested, drawing as much as possible of the story of the Lord's early life from the children's own memory. Some of the older ones in the class should know most of it. With this class something can be done with the importance of the miracle itself, and with the latter part of the chapter.

---
Our lesson today is about a miracle. A miracle is a wonderful thing done by the Lord.

After the Lord was born in Bethlehem, He was taken down into Egypt for a while because Herod, the wicked king, wanted to kill Him. Then after Herod died, the Lord was brought back and grew up in Nazareth, where Mary and her husband Joseph lived. When He was twelve years old, He was brought to Jerusalem for His first Passover feast. After that He grew up in Nazareth, and no one knew anything more about Him until He was about thirty years old.

Who was sent to prepare the way of the Lord?

Who were John's father and mother?

Who told his father what he was to be?

What sign did Gabriel give Zacharias?

John grew up and began to preach in the wilderness, and many of the good people went out to hear him and believed what he told them about the bad things they had been doing. So they knew that they must change their lives, and John baptized them in the Jordan as a sign that they were going to try to do better. This was the way he prepared them to welcome the Lord.

Then one day the Lord came to the Jordan and asked John to baptize Him, because He came into the world to show us the things we ought to do, and being baptized is one of those things. And after the Lord was baptized, the people saw a dove fly down and light upon Him, and they heard a voice from heaven which told them that He was the promised Lord.

He did not need to be baptized, but He was showing us what we ought to do. Then He began to go about preaching and teaching and working miracles of healing.

The miracles recorded in the Bible are wonderful things done by the Lord. What miracles does our lesson today describe?

You see, the Lord is life itself.

He is the one who gives us our life from day to day.

He raised the widow's son to show us that no one ever really dies.

By this time John had been put in prison by a second Herod. What did John's messengers ask the Lord?

What did He tell them?

What did He tell the people about John?

