
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson for the Older Teens may well be centered on the meaning of the miracle of the widow's son and the power which trust in the Lord instead of in self brings into the life in small things and in great. Whatever the young people are going to do in the world, obedience to the Lord's truth as He has given it to us and trust in His power to accomplish should be their constant support.

---
The New Church teaches that the miracles recorded in the Word are fact. It does not try to explain them away, or imagine that they were made up later by the apostles in order to convince people. Believing that Jesus was actually Immanuel, God with us, who created and maintains every living thing, we have no difficulty in accepting His power to control natural as well as spiritual forces.

But the Lord never performed miracles in order to convince doubters, and His miracles did not convince the doubters who saw them any more than they convince doubters today. The doubters then attributed His power to the devil. He performed miracles to confirm and strengthen the faith of those who, in a wholly worldly and materialistic nation and age, still felt their need of Him and wished to accept Him, and also in order to teach in the Word, through the knowledge of correspondence later to be revealed, lessons of the healing and reviving power of His spirit in the soul.

Since the Incarnation the Lord's spirit working in the world has increased man's power of rational and spiritual sight, and in this latter age through the Second Coming the necessary knowledge has been given to implement the new power. So we should not ask for external miracles. The Lord said to Thomas, "Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed." (John 20:29) Spiritual reason creates a higher type of faith than physical sight. So, although we believe the miracles, and recognize them as evidence of the power exerted by the Lord when He was on earth, their chief interest for us is in their correspondence.

For example, the miracle of the healing of the centurion's servant pictures the Lord's power to revitalize even the activities of our everyday life in the world provided we wish, as did the centurion, to make that life serve our own spiritual development and that of the world. The good centurion is a picture of the well-ordered external life, ministering to the spiritual and looking to the Lord for correction and renewal. The complete submission of this external plane to the will of the Lord is the final test of faith.

The story of the raising of the son of the widow of Nain pictures the Lord's power to revitalize all our powers in times of doubt and discouragement, when we seem to have lost even the power to see what we ought to do. The widow of Nain stands for our good desire, bereft of its proper knowledge of truth, and so inevitably of its ability to produce an effective decision. In such a case we must put aside all thought of our own worldly wisdom and lift our problem into the clear light of the Lord's teaching of love to God and the neighbor.

Every one of us over and over again in our lives is in the position of the widow of Nain. We want, perhaps, to help someone with advice and comfort, but we do not know just how — the right words will not come. Or we want to decide some important question in the right way, but we don't know just what is right. Or we want to show a child or a friend just how some weakness is leading him astray, but we are not sure how to go about it. Or perhaps we want to give some friend an understanding of what our church teaches and stands for, but we find we are too ignorant. When we are in this state, we seem to ourselves to be good for nothing. We seem unable to produce anything that will live. This is pictured by the death of the widow's only son. When we are dwelling on our discouragement, we are like the mourning widow and her friends following the bier out of the city toward the tombs.

But the Lord is always standing at the gate. If we will "stand still" when He touches the bier and look to Him instead of thinking of ourselves, we shall always hear Him say, "Arise!" Do you remember how Joshua, after the first defeat at Ai, "rent his clothes, and fell to his face upon the earth," and how the Lord said to him, "Get thee up; wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face?" and set him to work to find out and correct the sin in Israel? Think what Joshua accomplished after that!

The coming of the messengers from John the Baptist, who was now in prison, expresses the same sort of doubt and discouragement. The Lord answered by pointing to His works. If we study history and look about us in the world, we shall find ample evidence of the Lord's power to save in spite of human weakness. The troubles of the world are man-made. But the Lord also shows us in our lesson that His truth is not something that can be twisted according to our desires — a reed shaken with the wind — nor yet always easy and pleasant this side of heaven. Like John the Baptist it tells us exactly what we must do if the Lord's power is to make itself felt in our lives and through us in the world. Verse 28 tells us, however, that after we have received that life—giving power, all the hard part of the struggle is behind us.

