
=== Adult

Interesting discussion topics are:
(1) the change in Jacob's correspondence as his story progresses;
(2) the necessity of developing an orderly outward life as a basis for any higher development;
(3) the difference between seeking such a life for the sake of self and seeking it from the motive of love to the Lord and the neighbor;
(4) the difference between recognizing an ideal and achieving it;
(5) the general correspondence of the twelve sons of Jacob.

It should not confuse us to find the correspondence of Jacob apparently changing, for it is the story of the beginning of our achievement of the good external life and of its gradual development from apparent to genuine good — that is, from a life which is good in the eyes of our neighbors to one which is good in the sight of the Lord.

With reference to Abraham and Isaac, Jacob represents the time in our lives when we are beginning to direct our own affairs independently of our parents. If we have been developing in an orderly way, the simple, trustful states of our infancy have passed into our subconscious, and we have also judged and put behind us the boastful, self-confident state represented by Ishmael. Isaac, the genuine rational, is head of our house. But Isaac is growing old. This does not mean that we no longer have to think and reason, but that the faculty is adequately developed and the time has come when our primary business is its application to the outward conduct of life.

For the successful pursuit of our new activities we must acquire new truth but — as in the case of Isaac's marriage — this truth must not be sought for mere selfish and worldly purposes. Jacob's wife, like Isaac's, must be found in Haran. She must be an affection of truth springing from the same primary source, our original determination to serve the Lord. This is an important point to keep in mind in helping our children to begin their independent lives rightly. Whatever occupation they may choose, it should be chosen and pursued from a desire to serve the Lord and the neighbor rather than merely to find a secure and remunerative place in this world. In the historical interpretation, the representative church of the Jews had to be established in the line of Terah, who, we remember, signified the third and last Ancient Church.

There are differences between the story of Isaac's marriage and the story of Jacob's which are interesting. Isaac, we recall, was not under any circumstances to go to Haran himself. In the formative years when your higher rational is being developed, it must never be allowed to leave the Holy Land, the spiritual plane. Rebekah had to be brought to Isaac. But Jacob is driven to leave the Holy Land for a time in the search for his true wife. When we come to work out our religion on the plane of outward conduct, we must necessarily be concerned with external as well as with internal truths. Another difference is in the fact that Rebekah came to the well with her pitcher on her shoulder to draw water to be carried home. The emphasis here is on the acquisition of truth from the Word — the well — for later use. Rachel, on the other hand, came to the well bringing her father's flock, of which she was the shepherdess. As the family of Nahor, who left Ur with Terah and Abram but went no farther than Haran, picture simple, uninstructed goodness and obedience, so the flock of Laban, Rachel's father, pictures those who wish to be "led and taught" (@AC 3795). Rachel, therefore, represents a desire for truth for immediate, specific uses.

Swedenborg thus summarizes the meaning of the contents of chapter 29, one of our chapters, in @AC 3758 and 3759: "In the internal sense of this chapter by 'Jacob' is described the Lord's natural — how the good of truth therein was conjoined with kindred good from a Divine origin, which good is 'Laban'; at first through the affection of internal truth, which is 'Rachel.'" And in @AC 3793 he says: "Jacob therefore now puts on the representation of the natural, and Rachel the representation of truth; but as all conjunction of truth with good is wrought by means of affection, it is the affection of truth to be coupled with good that is represented by Rachel. Moreover in the natural, as in the rational, there is an interior and an exterior; Rachel representing the affection of interior truth, and Leah the affection of exterior truth."

The whole story of Jacob's marriages and of the birth of his sons is actually one of the orderly development of the good external life — which must have an internal in order to be good. Rachel is the ideal, glimpsed at first and then labored for long and patiently with inevitable delays and disappointments on the way.

In @AC 6335 occurs one of the simplest statements of the correspondence of the twelve sons as "all truths and goods in one complex." Another helpful definition of them is found in @AC 6448:

"By them are described all states of the church as to goods and truths, thus as to the spiritual life of everyone within the church." Individually their correspondence, like that of everything in the Word, changes slightly with the order and context in which they are mentioned. A very full statement of this variation in order of the twelve is found in @AC 3862 and a briefer one in @AC 6335. The general correspondence of the individual sons is briefly as follows:

Reuben = faith.

Simeon = faith in the will.

Levi = charity.

Judah = the celestial church, or the Lord as to the Divine celestial.

Zebulun = the cohabitation of good and truth.

Issachar = recompense from works.

Dan = those who are in the good of life from truth, but not yet from good.

Gad = works from truth and not yet from good.

Asher = the blessedness of the affections.

Naphtali = temptation and the state after temptation.

Joseph = the spiritual church, the Lord as to the Divine spiritual.

Benjamin = the truth of the good of the spiritual church.

Joseph was the last one born in Haran. Benjamin was born near Bethlehem after the return to the Holy Land, and Rachel died and was buried there. It is interesting also to find that it was Leah and not Rachel who was buried with Jacob in the cave of Machpelah along with Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah. Rachel was Jacob's inspiring ideal, but Leah was apparently his true mate.

