
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The important lessons for this age group are the general meaning of the patriarchs as the three planes of our lives, and that these planes develop in order; then that nothing is really accomplished until will and thought are expressed in act; that the plane of conduct has its internal as well as its external; and finally that the external of the natural must be brought into order before any genuine spiritual affections and thoughts can be produced.

---
Jacob is the third of the men who are called "patriarchs"; Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. In our lesson about Hagar and Ishmael we spoke of the three planes of our lives: will, thought, and act. Everything we do involves all three. We must have some desire before we even think of doing a thing; then we must think about how to do it; and finally we must actually do it, or our desire and thought come to nothing. Again and again in the Bible we find groups of three which picture these three planes in one order or another. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob represent them in the order of their development. Abraham pictures our infancy and little childhood when we are governed by our desires, Isaac our later childhood and early youth when our minds are being developed and trained, and Jacob our later youth when we are beginning to take up active duties in the world. More technical names for these three planes are celestial, spiritual, and natural. So in the development of a good life — the subject of the Bible in its internal sense — we have to pass through these three stages: we first have to want to be good, then we have to learn what is good, and finally we have to do what we have learned to be right. The story of Jacob is the story of the development of this outward or natural plane of goodness.

Jacob was by no means a model character. Like most of us, at the start he had his own interests in view and was willing to serve himself by getting the better of someone else. And even when his wonderful vision of the ladder induced him to decide to serve the Lord, he had his own safety and success in mind. We are all inclined to be selfish to begin with, and the Lord uses our very selfishness as a means of inducing us to lead orderly lives.

The same lesson is repeated in another form in our chapter for today. Jacob did reach Haran safely and stopped outside the city at the same well where Abraham's servant had found Rebekah. The well, you remember, pictures the letter of the Word. When we are trying to live good lives, our first stopping place must always be the Word, for that is where the water of truth from the Lord is found. As our chapter tells us, all the flocks must gather at this well to drink. The sheep represent innocent and trustful affections.

In the Bible husbands represent goods and wives the affection for the kind of truth which belongs with the particular good pictured by their husbands. Isaac had to have a wife from Haran, but Ishmael's wife — like his mother — was from Egypt. Our story has a very interesting meaning which you will probably not find too difficult to understand. Jacob meets Rachel at the well and loves her at sight. He is willing to serve seven years for her, "and they seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her." But when the seven years are over, he is given her sister Leah first and has to serve seven more years for Rachel [although she was given to him after one week (see Genesis 29:27-28).]

Leah and Rachel both picture affection for truth, but for truth of different kinds. Leah, the older, represents "the affection of external truth" and Rachel "the affection of internal truth." Have you ever had beautiful thoughts about growing up to be a wonderfully fine person whom everyone would love? This is Rachel. Perhaps for a whole day you tried to be that kind of person and you were very happy and the day went like the wind. But somehow your beautiful ideal slipped away from you, and you began to find doing right much less beautiful and desirable because it involved so much everyday, plodding study and work. That is Leah, the "tender" (weak) eyed. Before we can attain the constant joy in serving the Lord, we have to form the habit of doing what is right even when we can't see clearly what it all leads to.

And this brings us to the sons of Jacob. In the Bible the birth of children pictures the producing of truth and good. As Jacob represents genuine goodness in the natural or outward plane of life, his twelve sons represent all the different goods and truths which can be produced in our souls by a good outward life, lived from the desire to serve the Lord. The sons of Leah are born first — faith and love and good deeds and good will of an external kind. Next are the sons of the two handmaids — lesser truths and goods which serve the higher ones. Last of all are born the sons of Rachel — true interior love and understanding, which are the means of our salvation and regeneration or rebirth as spiritual instead of merely worldly people. It is a long process, but that is just what our life in the world is for.

Study carefully the chart which shows the sons of Jacob with their mothers, and remember where it is for reference, because the twelve sons are the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel. Israel is another later name for Jacob (read Genesis 32:24-28). The names and correspondence of the twelve sons play a constant part in the Bible story, the last mention of them being in Revelation 21:12, where we find them written on the gates of the New Jerusalem. We cannot take them up individually now, but we shall study some of them in connection with later lessons. The order in which they are born is the order in which they develop in our lives if we are progressing spiritually, and when we are discouraged with our progress it may help us to remember that the highest goods and truths were the very last to be born. We shall have more to say about Joseph in our next lesson. He was the last one born in Haran. Benjamin was born after they returned to the Holy Land.

