
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Get as much of the review as possible from the children themselves. Then cover rapidly the whole story of Jacob's sojourn in Haran, of his wives and sons, and of his return to the Holy Land. Have the children look up Genesis 32:24-28 so that they will learn that Jacob and Israel are the same person. It is important to fix this fact in their minds. They should also be told of Benjamin's birth and Rachel's death near Bethlehem, and about the cave of Machpelah where the three patriarchs and their wives were buried. Two simple lessons should be stressed: Jacob's tendency to think of himself in everything he did, and its long-lasting results; and the fact that we have to work long and patiently to attain anything that is really worthwhile, and that our work should always be done from the desire to be useful to the Lord and the neighbor.

---
Our lesson today takes us to Haran again. You will remember that Isaac and Rebekah had twin sons, Esau and Jacob; that Esau, who was the firstborn and so should have been his father's heir, sold his birthright to Jacob; and that afterward Jacob, with his mother's help, deceived his father and stole Esau's blessing, and so had to be sent away to escape Esau's wrath. You will remember, too, about the dream Jacob had at Bethel on his way to Haran, and about the promise he made to serve the Lord if the Lord would prosper him and bring him safely home again.

We find now that Rebekah's brother Laban has become the head of the family in Haran.

Where did Jacob stop first when he came to Haran?

What did he find at the well?

What did the shepherds tell him?

Who came to the well with Laban's flock? How did Laban receive Jacob?

What other daughter did Laban have?

Which one did Jacob love?

How many years did he first serve for her?

At the end of the seven years how did Laban deceive him?

What excuse did Laban give?

How much longer did Jacob have to serve for Rachel?

Things do not always turn out just as we expect. Jacob had to learn this. He had made a bargain with the Lord and he had made one with Laban. When we do our work just for what we expect to get out of it for ourselves, we are often disappointed in the result. We need to learn to work for the love of being useful to others and to the Lord. Then our enjoyment in our work is a constant and lasting thing.

The people of this period had no feeling that it was wrong to have more than one wife at a time. So Jacob had two wives and two "concubines" — servants who also bore him children. He had in all twelve sons. You need not learn all their names at once, but you should read the list over often and become familiar with the names, for they appear constantly in the Bible story from this point on, since they became the heads of the twelve tribes of Israel.

Israel is another name for Jacob. El is one of the Hebrew words for God. Israel means "one who prevails with God." In the Bible story, Jacob is sometimes called Jacob and sometimes Israel, and when you are older, you will learn why this is so; for nothing in the Word is ever accidental. All through their history in the Bible the Jews are commonly called the "children of Israel."

Of Jacob's twelve sons six were the children of Leah: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun; and Leah also had a daughter, whose name was Dinah. Two of Jacob's sons, Dan and Naphtali, were the children of Rachel's handmaid Bilhah; and two, Gad and Asher, were the children of Leah's handmaid Zilpah. The two youngest sons, Joseph and Benjamin, were Rachel's children. Joseph was the last one born in Haran. After serving Laban fourteen years for Leah and Rachel, Jacob served him six years more for wages, which he received in sheep and cattle, and then he returned to the Holy Land. Benjamin was born in the Holy Land not far from Bethlehem. The story of his birth is found in Genesis 35:16-20.

The few verses from chapter 35 which we have as part of our lesson give the full list of Jacob's twelve sons. It is good to remember where you may find them. Padan-aram (Genesis 35:26) is a name for the plain in which Haran is situated. This part of the country was afterward Syria, and Aram is another name for Syria. It is also called Mesopotamia, a word which means "between the rivers," because it lies in the triangle between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.

Jacob stayed with Laban at Haran for twenty years altogether, and yet when he returned home he was still very much afraid that Esau would try to kill him. When we have done harm to someone, one of our punishments is that we have to live with a sense of fear. But Esau, who was the one wronged, had long since forgiven Jacob and welcomed him with open arms. Jacob got back to Hebron in time to see his father Isaac again before he died. We are not told in the Bible just when Rebekah died, but in connection with the story of Jacob's own death in Genesis 49:28-33, we learn that Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, Jacob and Leah were all buried in the cave of Machpelah, which Abraham had bought from the Hittites for a family burial place when Sarah died. Rachel died when Benjamin was born, and was buried near Bethlehem.

