
=== Notes for Parents

Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are called the "patriarchs." The Jews looked to them as the fathers of their race. They were also regularly called in the Bible the "children of Israel." Israel is another name for Jacob. The story of how Jacob came by this name is found in Genesis 32:24-28.

You will remember that Jacob had to be sent away to visit his uncle Laban at Haran because he had taken away from his twin brother Esau — who was the firstborn — both the birthright and the blessing which Esau should have had, and Esau had threatened to kill him. Does it seem strange that the Lord should have allowed one who would do such things to become his father's heir and head of the family? If it does, we should think whether our lives have always been such that we deserve the blessings which the Lord has given us. There is only one perfect character in the Bible and that is the Lord Jesus. All the others are men and women like ourselves, with faults as well as virtues. The Psalmist writes: "If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?"

And yet Jacob's sins were not without consequences to him.

He was the home—loving one of the twins, and he had to leave his home and spend twenty years serving his uncle Laban in Haran. He carried his fear of Esau all that time, as we learn from the story of his return in Genesis 32 and 33. If we repent, the Lord forgives our sins, but no sin is ever without consequences.

The story of Jacob's meeting and loving Rachel, of his long service for her, of his being given Leah first, and of the birth of his twelve sons is a true story, but it is also a parable. It teaches us how a young person, as he starts out in life, catches a glimpse of an ideal and begins to work eagerly for its achievement, and then finds the way unexpectedly long and hard, beset by difficulties and disappointments. Yet if he is faithful and patient, he will finally reach his goal. We should remember this lesson as we try to help our children choose their life work, and we should also remember that they will find lasting happiness in their work only if they undertake it with the motive of service to the Lord and the neighbor in their hearts. Work done for self never brings happiness or spiritual growth.

