
=== Senior

The three planes of life and the order of their development should be stressed and then the fact that after these are developed, the natural plane must be brought into order before regeneration can proceed to higher planes. The difference between seeing an ideal and achieving it is an important point. But most important for this age is the point that our occupations should be chosen and pursued from the motive of service to the Lord and the neighbor rather than from the motive of self-advancement.

---
Each new development in our lives — both in our general progress and in every particular achievement — follows the same pattern. There must first be a desire in our will. We never do anything without some motive, good or bad. Then the desire must take form in our thought, and the means to accomplish it must be worked out by our reasoning powers. Finally, the desire and the thought must find expression in action if they are to accomplish anything. These three stages, with reference to our spiritual development and progress, are pictured by the three patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Jacob represents the outward or natural plane of achievement. We ought to "want to be good." We ought to learn from the Word what is right and to think about how we should live in order to fulfill the Lord's purposes for us. But the desire and thought get us nowhere spiritually except as we actually do from day to day what we have found is right. And we all know from experience that it is not always an easy matter to carry out in our outward conduct our highest intentions and thoughts. Making the outward life heavenly is a long, slow process.

Jacob, as you may remember, was not an exemplary character.

He deceived his father and stole his brother's blessing and left home under a cloud, in fear of Esau's vengeance, a fear which stayed with him through his whole twenty-year sojourn in Haran.

The promise he made to serve the Lord, following the wonderful dream which he had at Bethel near the beginning of his journey, was given on condition that the Lord would make his journey successful and bring him safely home again. And in our lesson today we find that his service to his uncle Laban is a series of bargains. It is his own interest which he obviously has first in mind.

This is a characteristic of the external life of every one of us before we are regenerated. We are born with tendencies to selfishness, and in our first contacts with the world our efforts are centered on our external comfort and success. What happens to us in this world seems to us the essential thing.

And yet the Lord sees to it that we all have glimpses of something higher. The innocent, trustful states of our infancy and the instruction from the Word — direct or indirect — which we receive as children, are stored up by Him in our subconscious mind as the "remains" through which He can speak to us and help us. These stay with us as Jacob's vision must have stayed with him, always holding up an ideal which is higher than mere worldly success.

This fact is brought out by the story of Leah and Rachel, the two daughters of Laban whom Jacob married. We remember that daughters picture affections. Leah, the elder daughter, pictures the affection for truth on the external plane of life. She is the elder because this affection in us develops first, even when we know that there is a higher one. We saw this fact in our study of Ishmael and Isaac. This first affection does not see very far. Leah was "tender" (weak) eyed. Rachel, who was beautiful and well favored, is the affection for interior truth.

When Jacob stops at the well outside of Haran — which we remember pictures the Word in its letter — it is Rachel who comes with her father's sheep, and with whom Jacob immediately falls in love. When, with the intention of serving the Lord, we read the Word, our innocent "remains," like the sheep, are brought to our minds by the Lord and with them a delight in learning spiritual truth, which we immediately accept as our ideal. But Jacob, we remember, is goodness on the natural plane. He agrees to work seven years for Rachel; the years pass quickly, but then he finds that Leah is given him instead of Rachel, and he has to work seven years more for Rachel. Isn't this just like our own experience? We catch sight of a vision of a noble life and set out to attain it, but when we think we deserve to have achieved our goal, we find it still ahead of us.

Now comes the further lesson. Rachel was at first barren, and it was Leah who bore Jacob's first four sons and two more later. And each of the two handmaids also bore him two sons before Rachel was able to have a child. We have already seen that the birth of children pictures the bringing forth of truths and goods. Rachel, the affection for interior truths, must be our ideal from the beginning, but for a long time it is the affection of external truth and affections for the lesser knowledges that serve our progress in understanding which are productive in our lives. An example may help: Suppose a boy, through his early associations in home and church, catches a vision of the ministry as the work to which he really wants to give his life. He starts out eagerly to work toward that goal, but presently he finds that he must learn a great many other things before he can even begin his theological studies, and even after he becomes a minister, much of his work seems to be of an external and routine character, and it is only after years of patient service that he sees that he is beginning to accomplish the spiritual uses to which he looked forward in the beginning. In the choice of any life work, the ideal of service to the Lord and the neighbor should always be present from the start, but the achievement of the ideal is the work of a lifetime.

The twelve sons of Jacob represent "all truths and goods in the complex." Complex is from a Latin word meaning to "braid together." We sometimes speak of our modern life as being complex. But we seldom stop to think how truly complex, how interwoven, are all our thoughts and affections, how different each person's mind is from every other, and how our own minds vary from hour to hour in respect to what motive and what thoughts are uppermost and governing all the others. The twelve sons of Jacob are mentioned again and again in the Bible, and Swedenborg tells us that the order in which they are mentioned in any given place is very important in the interpretation of the events being narrated. We cannot take them up individually in any one lesson, but one or another of them will come up from time to time as we go on with our course.

As we should expect, Rachel's two sons, Joseph and Benjamin, who were the last to be born, represent spiritual good and truth. We shall follow this thought further when we study about Joseph. Joseph was the last one born in Haran. Benjamin was born near Bethlehem after Jacob and his family returned to the Holy Land.

