
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What is a parable? a story with a hidden meaning

Intermediate: How many parables are there in the Word? see footnote* in Intermediate section

Intermediate: Why does the Lord teach us in parables? we can see truth better if it doesn't seem at first to apply to us

Intermediate: What are three of the parables in our lesson about? seed

Intermediate: What is the seed? truth from God's Word

Intermediate: What are the different kinds of ground? different kinds of minds

Primary: What does the Lord say about a lamp? should be put on a stand

Intermediate: What does light symbolize? truth which enlightens

Senior: How should we use the truth? to help see our own faults

Intermediate: What happens if we do not use it? we lose it (lamp goes out)

Intermediate: By what degrees does grain develop? first blade, then ear, then full grain

Primary: Who makes it grow? God

Primary: What does the Lord say of a grain of mustard seed? smallest of seeds

Intermediate: What does it become? great bush or tree

Senior: How is this like the development of the truths we learn from the Word? at first some truths don't mean much to us, but later we may see real meaning

== MIRACLES — Mark 5

With all the younger children the emphasis in this lesson may well be on the Lord's statement, "The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth." The fact that all our life is from the Lord, that it does not depend on our bodies, but goes on forever, no matter what happens to the body, should be impressed upon a child as early as he is able to think about death at all. In all the miracles of our lesson also it is very clear that the one for whom the miracle was performed had full faith in the Lord's power to heal. In one case it was an outcast, in another a rich and powerful man who had this faith; in the third it was a poor woman. So belief in the Lord is not a matter of outward conditions, and it was not the miracle which produced faith. This applies to all our efforts to overcome our faults. We must believe that with the Lord's help we can overcome them, or we shall not make the necessary effort. Parents find even very young children falling back on "I can't" when they are asked to pick up their toys or do some other orderly or helpful thing.

