
=== Adult

The difference in meaning between Egypt under Joseph and Egypt under a Pharaoh "which knew not Joseph" should be clearly pointed out. Then give the correspondence of Moses and, with this as a basis of interpretation, take up the general outline of the life of Moses and its meaning.

---
When Jacob and his family came down into Egypt and were given the best of the land to live in because of Pharaoh's gratitude to Joseph and confidence in him, we have the picture of an orderly learning period, when the Lord is supreme in our thoughts and recognition of Him directs our acquisition and ordering of facts. It is a peaceful, happy, profitable state. We are in such a state not only in our childhood but also in adult life when we read the Word daily, when we study the writings of the church, when we attend Sunday school and church, and also when for the sake of our use to the Lord and the neighbor we study or refresh our minds on subjects other than the Word which we feel will help us.

This learning state is essential to progress, but it is not to be our constant state. The Lord had promised Jacob that He would bring the children of Israel out of Egypt again. Joseph before he died had exacted a promise from them that when they returned to the Holy Land they would take his bones with them — a promise which they fulfilled (Exodus 13:19 and Joshua 24:32). The land of Canaan was their true home. The Lord, when He called Abraham to leave Ur and go to the land of Canaan, had promised it to him and his seed forever, and had repeated this promise to Isaac and to Jacob.

Canaan has always been called "the promised land," and recognized as a symbol of heaven. Heaven is the inheritance the Lord wishes to give each one of us. But the Lord tells us, "The kingdom of God is within you." We do not go to heaven when we die unless heaven is within us when we die. So our Canaan is a heavenly character, and that is the object of our whole journey through life.

When the Israelites settled in Egypt, they prospered and increased greatly in numbers and possessions and, as we are all apt to do when everything goes well with us, they presently forgot that they were merely sojourners in Egypt and made no effort to return to Canaan. Then Joseph died, and his body was embalmed and put in a coffin in Egypt. So when we become wholly satisfied with our worldly prosperity, our higher spiritual perceptions are laid away out of sight in the memory, and we become more and more absorbed in the pursuit of the things of this world. The Israelites eventually became slaves to the monarchs who succeeded those who had originally befriended them, the later Pharaohs, who as time went on "knew not Joseph." They themselves at last forgot even the name of their own God — Moses had to be told the name Jehovah by the Lord when He spoke to him at the burning bush. So if we fall in love with knowledge for its own sake or for the sake of what it can do for us in a worldly way and forget that it is given us by the Lord as a means to help us to serve Him and the neighbor, we come under the rule of a selfish and worldly principle and become slaves to it; our higher natures are made to serve worldly ends. But the Israelitish people had been chosen by the Lord to serve as a representative of His church on earth, and their history was so regulated by Him that it should represent the course of a person whose mind is not wholly closed to spiritual lessons. So they began to groan under their bondage and to long for deliverance from it. Every person who really intends to lead a good life eventually becomes restless and dissatisfied with his bondage to the world.

The command of Pharaoh that all the male infants of the Hebrews should be killed may be compared with Herod's slaying of all the babes in Bethlehem. It is the effort of the worldly nature into which all of us are born to destroy every seed of spiritual truth which might grow up to threaten our selfish interests. But the Lord sees to it that a saving element is preserved — knowledge of his law. Moses represents divine law. There are two elements necessary to the preservation of this knowledge. One is a genuine affection for it, represented by the mother of Moses, which is part of the "remains" implanted in us during infancy and early childhood. The other is an affection for the material rewards of keeping the law, self-esteem and the esteem of others, represented by Pharaoh's daughter. The ark of bulrushes, covered with pitch like Noah's ark, portrays a knowledge of the mere letter of the law - the rudiments of understanding it — preserved by love of self, since ignorance of the law gets one into trouble. The timing — which brings Pharaoh's daughter down to bathe just when Moses in the ark has been left at the water's edge — is the Lord's. So our opportunities are always timed by divine providence to give us the best possibility of correcting our mistakes. Moses grew up as the foster son of Pharaoh's daughter. We might think here of the rich young man who had kept all the commandments from his youth up and came to the Lord feeling that his orderly life should be sufficient. But Moses had his own mother always in the background, and was not allowed to lose sight of his birth and allegiance.

The life of Moses is divided into three periods of forty years each:

(1) The first period was spent in Egypt. It begins with his birth and preservation in the ark of bulrushes. We may see that this ark represents the simplest knowledge of what is right and fitting held together and kept afloat by the sense that one must observe the standards of his community if he is to succeed. Moses was brought up — as many of us are — in the learning of the Egyptians but in the tradition of the Hebrews; that is, in worldly knowledge but with some knowledge of the Word also. This period closes with the flight of Moses after he slew an Egyptian whom he saw smiting a Hebrew — our first impulsive attempt to preserve what we feel is important to our spiritual life.

(2) The second period was spent in the land of Midian, tending the flocks of Jethro, a priest of Midian, who became Moses' father-in-law. Midian was the son of Abraham by Keturah, whom he married after Sarah's death. In a good sense Midian represents a state of simple good, a thought which is further carried out by Moses' occupation there. A temporary return to the simple belief and resolution of our childhood is a necessary part of our preparation for the escape from bondage. This period closes with the call of Moses at the burning bush.

(3) The third period Moses spent in the actual deliverance of his people and in leading them from Egypt to Canaan through the wilderness.

We may think of the story of the Hebrews from the time of the Exodus as the story of our attempt to attain a heavenly state of character, once we have realized that we cannot stay in mere memory-knowledge of what is good and true but must really apply it to our own personal life. This story proceeds under a series of great leaders of whom Moses is the first. The wilderness journey pictures the period of reformation when we are trying to bring our external lives into order from a principle of simple obedience to the ten commandments.

