
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this age group it may be well to discuss the fact that we each have a higher and a lower nature which are constantly at variance with each other. At this age children have their serious and thoughtful times, but they are liable to be swept away quickly by claims of exercise and play. They need to understand that their everyday pleasures and activities are good in their place but that they should lead to and not away from the establishment of a genuinely good character. Any activity of which in their better moments they are ashamed is questionable. The commandments are the test, the only laws which can be trusted to lead to a good and happy life here and in heaven. A helpful thought to give them is that if they cannot say "no" to temptation, they are really slaves.

---
Exodus 12:40 says that the Israelites were in Egypt four hundred and thirty years, and four hundred is the number given in Genesis 15:13 and in Acts 7:6. Scholars have estimated that the actual time was something over two hundred years. Swedenborg says in the @AC 1502 that the years "were not reckoned from Jacob's going down into Egypt, but from the sojourning of Abram in Egypt, counting from which the years were four hundred and thirty." However, in the Word numbers are important for their correspondence rather than for their historical accuracy.

The Pharaoh who set Joseph over the land had urged him to bring his father and his brothers and their flocks down to Egypt and had given them the best of the land to live in, the fertile delta of the Nile. But after Joseph's death, as the Hebrews increased in numbers (during the time they were in Egypt their numbers increased from seventy persons to more than six hundred thousand), the Pharaohs began to be afraid of these strangers in their midst, and in the time of our lesson for today the Pharaoh took drastic steps to limit their increase, especially the increase of fighting men.

The history of the Israelites in the Word was so recorded by inspiration from the Lord that it might throughout represent the history of the church in man, a man's relation to the Lord. The Israelites came down to Egypt in time of famine to be nourished and cared for by Joseph. The Pharaoh who made Joseph ruler of his land is a picture of our external memory when it is orderly and used in the service of the Lord. [although it may not be so used by us consciously or deliberately. -Editor] So the coming down of the Hebrews to Egypt at that time pictures an orderly state of acquiring knowledge under the protection of a true spiritual affection. But Joseph died and was embalmed and put in a coffin in Egypt. Sometimes we become absorbed in the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake and forget its spiritual purpose. We come under the domination of a principle which recognizes only worldly aims. This is the Pharaoh "which knew not Joseph." Then, although we may seem to ourselves to be leading an independent life, doing as we please, we are really servants under a hard master, working very hard to build up wealth and power, and driven by ambition and greed. People often work themselves to death to acquire things which at death they have to leave behind them. Swedenborg says, "To be led by the Lord is freedom."

In the Word the birth of sons pictures the development of new truth. Pharaoh's ordering all the male children killed at birth pictures the fact that worldly ambition in the end seeks to destroy every spiritual thought which may come to us. But Moses was saved. Moses, because he was to lead the people out of Egyptian bondage and be the Lord's instrument in the giving of the commandments, pictures divine law. Most of us in our childhood become at least somewhat familiar with the ten commandments. Those who are not taught them directly from the Bible get many of them indirectly, because they are implied in all the laws which we have to observe in order to keep out of trouble even in a worldly sense. This knowledge of the commandments is what leads us out of our Egyptian bondage. Moses had an Israelitish mother and an Egyptian foster mother. That is, the divine law really comes from the Lord, but even our affection for getting along in the world makes us see that it is desirable and to be preserved. This is pictured, too, by the fact that the ark of bulrushes was daubed with slime and pitch to keep it afloat. The ark which Noah built was daubed with pitch also. Pitch represents selfishness. We are often saved from doing something wrong by our selfish fear of consequences. The rushes which grow at the river's edge, which in this case were probably the papyrus plant, represent the simplest ideas of what is right and fitting.

In a more particular sense the ark of bulrushes pictures the letter of the Word, and in this sense Pharaoh's daughter stands for the natural love of knowing about everything, which sometimes leads people to read the Bible even before they see any higher use in it than to be able to talk about it. But the little infant is nourished and cared for by his own mother. Divine truth is fed and cherished in us by means of love for the Lord and His truth which is a part of our inheritance from our heavenly Father, the "remains" planted in us in infancy and early childhood.

Moses growing up in the court of Pharaoh pictures the letter of the Word growing up in us as a part of our worldly education, but fostered under the Lord's providence by a deeper feeling of which we are hardly conscious.

