
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Children are old enough to be interested in the fact that the Hebrew people increased in Egypt until the Pharaoh became afraid of them and tried to prevent them from producing any more fighting men. Stress the Lord's protection of the infant Moses. Also show them how important the double education of Moses — (1) in the learning of the Egyptians, and (2) in the traditions of the Hebrews — would be when it came time for him to deliver his people from the Egyptian bondage.

---
Joseph at first had had a very hard time in Egypt, but the Lord was with him and helped him to rise until he became a very great man, ruler of the whole land, subject only to the Pharaoh, as the king of Egypt was called. In time of famine Joseph's brothers came to Egypt to buy food and were very much afraid when they discovered that the ruler they had to deal with was actually the brother they had wronged. But Joseph forgave them and, with Pharaoh's consent, invited his whole family to move down into Egypt for the duration of the famine.

Who before this in the Bible story had come to Egypt because of famine?

Pharaoh gave Jacob and his family the best of the land to live in and they liked it so well that they did not go back, as they should have, after the famine was over. They lived in Egypt a great many years — long enough to multiply into a numerous people. We read in Genesis 46:26-27 that sixty-six men in all came down to Egypt at Joseph's invitation, and in Exodus 12:37-40 we read that when they finally left there were about six hundred thousand men, besides children.

During this long time a great change had taken place in the condition of the Hebrews in Egypt. Our chapter says, "There arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph." This was really a whole new line of kings. They did not see the Hebrews as friends, but as possible enemies because they were an alien people — not Egyptians. So the new Pharaohs tried to hold the Hebrews down and made slaves of them. You know that the Egyptians built great temples and tombs, such as the pyramids. They used the Hebrews as laborers in these works. They did not have building machinery such as we have. Men had to do all the heavy lifting and building.

What cruel command did Pharaoh give?

The people naturally tried in every way to save their baby boys, and the Lord helped them. The Lord even made use of Pharaoh's harsh command when He wanted a man trained to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt.

Who was this man?

How did his mother try to save him?

An ark is a container made for the safekeeping of something precious. There are three famous arks in the Bible, of which the ark of Moses is the second.

What was the first?

Do you know what the third ark was?

The ark which held the baby Moses was made of bulrushes.

The bulrushes of Egypt were the stalks of the papyrus plant, from which paper also was made. Notice that this little ark, just like Noah's ark, was covered with pitch to keep it afloat. The sister of Moses, who was set to watch and see what happened to him, was probably Miriam, of whom we learn later.

Who came to the river and found Moses?

What did she decide to do?

Whom did his sister bring to nurse him?

So you see that Moses, when he grew up, would have the knowledge of his Hebrew birth and all the Hebrew traditions from his mother, and he would also have the advantage of the best schooling in the world, which at that time was to be had in Egypt, and would also know at first hand a great deal about government. So the Lord prepared him to lead the Hebrews out of Egypt, organize them into a nation, and lead them back to their true home in Canaan.

