
=== Senior

The young people should be impressed by the spiritual meaning of the bondage in Egypt. They know people who are slaves to their appetites, to their business, to their housework, to their intellectual pursuits, and even to their bridge parties. We spoke recently of higher and lower values. This is a good thought to keep constantly before them. In this lesson show them that when our "Joseph" dies in us, we easily become slaves to external considerations.

---
The word Genesis means "beginning." We can think of the whole book of Genesis as treating of the beginning of our lives. Swedenborg tells us that as infants we are surrounded and protected by celestial angels, angels of the third or highest heaven. So at that time we are in the sphere of the celestial plane of life. As we grow and become conscious of ourselves as individuals and begin to think and reason, the celestial angels recede and spiritual angels surround us. And finally, as we begin to try to act for ourselves, independently from our parents, we are associated with angels of the natural heavens, for that is then the plane of thought and feeling in which we are most interested.

So when we reach the point of being really grown up, our thoughts and feelings are centered about our external activities and uses. Spiritually we are in Egypt. But within us are stored up, like the body of Joseph in its coffin (Genesis 50:26), what Swedenborg calls the "remains" — all the states and knowledges of a celestial and spiritual character which we have acquired from our earlier heavenly surroundings.

Joseph had told the children of Israel that they would someday go back to the land of Canaan. No man can be permanently satisfied with merely worldly living because as a human being instead of an animal he has higher possibilities within him. The old hymn which begins "I'm but a stranger here; heaven is my home" is based on a fundamental truth. The Hebrews were strangers in Egypt to the very last of their stay there. Sooner or later the man who has immersed himself in the business or pleasures of the world wakes up to find himself a slave, and looks for a deliverer.

Moses is the deliverer provided by the Lord to break the bonds and lead the soul back to its true home. Moses represents divine law. But this law does not come to us at first full—fledged. The person seeking a way out of his bondage is conscious first only of a small stirring of life in the recollection of the simple truths concerning what is right and fitting which are stored up in his memory from his innocent childhood — pictured by Moses in his little basket of rushes at the river's edge. Pharaoh's daughter symbolizes the desire to examine this new awakening, but the new life must be nourished by a deeper and more genuine affection. The Lord sees to it that the sister and the mother of Moses are at hand.

In the literal story Moses received providentially everything necessary to his preparation for his great task — the instruction from his Hebrew mother and the learning of the Egyptians. The Lord sees to it that when any young man or woman wakes to the realization that a merely worldly and selfish life is bondage and longs for the freedom of the spiritual life, the first stirrings of thought deep down in his mind are fed and protected and supplied with the necessary knowledge until they become strong enough to attempt the actual work of reformation.

Spiritual character is not developed overnight. It comes in clear stages, called by Swedenborg repentance, reformation, and regeneration. Repentance is the acknowledgment that we have been wrong, together with the sincere effort to change ourselves. Reformation is the actual correction of our external lives according to the teachings of the Word. Regeneration is a new birth, the birth of a new will which is in accord with the Lord's will. This is something we do not create ourselves. It flows in from the Lord as we make the necessary preparation for it by repentance and reformation. Repentance and reformation are our part; regeneration is the Lord's. So the Israelites had to groan under their bondage until they were ready to make the effort to escape, to accept Moses as their leader, and to make the long, hard journey through the wilderness to the land of Canaan, the Holy Land which was their true home.

