
=== Adult

Possible discussion topics are the nature of the Lord's post—resurrection body, the opening of the Scriptures, and the charge to "tarry in Jerusalem." This charge and the promise of the Holy Spirit were literally fulfilled for the apostles. They should be spiritually fulfilled for us.

---
Our lesson today is a portion of the Gospel of Luke which we all need to study and make part of our equipment as New Churchmen, as well as to ponder for its personal meaning for us. There have been differences of opinion in the church as to the nature of the Lord's post—resurrection body, and our chapter puts this problem squarely before us. The body was gone from the tomb, but the linen cloths in which it had been wrapped were left. The two disciples on the way to Emmaus walked and talked with the Lord for some time without recognizing Him. As soon as they did recognize Him in the breaking of bread, He vanished from their sight. He appeared suddenly standing in the midst of the apostles. The body in which the Lord appeared after the resurrection was obviously not the finite physical body which He had worn before the crucifixion. Yet it was more than the spiritual body in which each of us lives after death. He told the apostles to handle Him, and said, "A spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have." And He also ate in their presence. Swedenborg tells us that the Lord, by the process of glorification, made the very "ultimates" divine and so rose with the whole body. But the divine body is necessarily infinite, and matter is finite. There we have our problem — a challenging one — about which we may and do come to different conclusions in this world. But without solving it we may be sure that the facts by which it is presented are all true, and these facts give us the assurance that the Lord is present in the world actually, as He says in Matthew: "Lo, I am with you always." By His life in the world He not only overcame the hells, but He established a direct, permanent, personal contact with men on earth which He had not had before.

The two on the way to Emmaus did not at first recognize the Lord, but as He explained the Scriptures to them, their hearts burned within them, and later they knew Him in breaking of bread. The fact that they urged Him to abide with them pictures their desire to preserve the truth which they were receiving, and their sitting and eating with Him their desire to apply it to life, and thus they received good from Him and so recognized Him. Swedenborg tells us that to break bread and give it to the disciples signifies "to instruct in the good and truth of faith, by which the Lord appears" (@AC 9412).

The New Church accepts this story and the incidents which follow as the Lord's own testimony to the fact that the Word has an internal meaning, and that the whole of the Word of the Old Testament treats inmostly of Him. He said that He came to fulfill the Law and the Prophets, and now we are told that, "Beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself," and later: "These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures." We think what a wonderful privilege it must have been to hear the Lord Himself expound the Scriptures; but today we have that same privilege, if we will make the preparation necessary to enjoy it, for the Lord in His Second Coming has opened the Scriptures so that all who will may understand them.

In Acts 1:3 we are told that forty days elapsed between the resurrection and the ascension. The Gospel of John records several appearances of the Lord not mentioned in the other Gospels. The instruction given the disciples during these days was of a more interior character than before and was designed to strengthen them for their mission. Then the Lord led them out as far as Bethany, and was parted from them and carried up to heaven. The faith of His disciples had now reached a point where His visible presence was no longer necessary to them. Indeed, He did not want them to depend upon His visible presence. He tells Thomas, "Blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed." And John adds, "And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of His disciples, which are not written in this book: but these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name." (John 20:29-31) The Lord must ascend in our minds. We must not cling to the thought of His earthly life as something that happened long ago, to the thought of His infancy, childhood, miracles, and suffering on the cross as the reason for our loyalty to Him. These all have their place in preparing us for His service, and in the internal sense they describe the stages through which our concept of the Lord must pass if we make orderly progress in the Christian life. But our thought of the Lord should rise above the merely natural phenomena of His life and center in His glorified human, of which we have a correspondential picture in the first chapter of Revelation. The Lord is not only our personal friend and savior; He is our heavenly king. As Isaiah tells us (Isaiah 9:6): "His name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace." The Bible story does not leave the Lord hanging on the cross. It goes on through the resurrection to the ascension. The Christian thought and the Christian appeal should never leave the Lord on the cross. We should not give the Lord pity; we should give Him worship.

The last promise of the Lord to His apostles was the promise of the gift of the Holy Spirit. They were told to tarry in Jerusalem until they should be endued with power from on high. Jerusalem represents doctrine. We must all tarry in the study and practice of doctrine until the Lord's power can come to us through it. Divine love works always in accordance with divine wisdom. We can do no more good than we know how to do. If we go forth with our own ideas, merely using such passages from the Word and from the writings as we think support what we have decided to believe, we may do more harm than good. The truth is not always what we wish to believe, and we do not arrive at the truth by our own observation and reasoning. We too may go forth "in the power of the Spirit," but the spirit comes to us only through the Word, and in this new age through the Word as opened for us with the help of the writings. Some scholars today try to change the Word or discount certain passages in it so that it will mean what they think it ought to mean. And the same destructive method may be used with regard to the writings of Swedenborg. But we should see clearly that these attempts spring from the pride of self-intelligence and are falsifications of the truth.

We may read in Acts 2 of the literal fulfillment of the promise to the apostles made in our chapter. The crown of Christian discipleship is the ability to bring the Lord's truth to others, to bring others to the recognition of the Lord and to acquaintance with the means of learning of Him. To have this power we must put self aside. Our hearts and minds must be "continually in the temple, praising and blessing God."

