
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
From this lesson the Intermediates should get at least the thought that the Lord is always present with us and that it is very important for us to study the Word and believe it — to want to know what the Lord is saying to us. The Scriptural proof of the existence of the internal sense of the Word should be stressed.

---
When the women reported to the apostles that they had been told that the Lord had risen, the apostles did not believe them. And even after Peter himself had been to the tomb and found that the body of the Lord was really gone, the disciples were still only puzzled. They still thought of death as the end of everything.

So in our lesson we find the two disciples on the way to Emmaus talking over the events of the day but still sad — without any real belief. This was why, when the Lord came and walked beside them, "their eyes were holden that they should not know him." And when they told Him why they were sad, He said: "O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken." He was pointing out that if they had chosen to believe the prophets instead of just what their own eyes had seen, they would not have been discouraged by the crucifixion.

Then the Lord began to remind them of what the Scriptures prophesied concerning the Messiah and also to explain to them some of the things which the Scriptures taught of Him. That it was the inner meaning which He gave them we know, because they said, "he opened to us the scriptures." And later in our chapter we read that He did the same for the apostles when He appeared to them all. From our lessons on the book of Psalms you will remember that one of the important things we learn from this chapter in Luke is that the Psalms are a part of the fully inspired Word, although the ancient Jewish canon did not recognize them as such.

From this chapter in Luke as well as from the traditions they received from the apostles the people of the early Christian Church knew that the Law and the Prophets and the Psalms had an inner meaning, and during the first few centuries of the church many efforts were made to discover or to work out such a meaning. But the Lord knew that man was not ready to use the knowledge of the inner meaning properly and so He had not given the apostles any specific principles by which it could be obtained. The attempts of the early Christian "fathers" resulted in some fantastic explanations which turned many people against what they called "allegorizing." In John 16:12 we read that one of the things the Lord said in His long talk with the apostles at the last supper was, "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now." It was to be many hundreds of years before the world reached the point in its development when the Lord could open the inner meaning of the Word in such a way that everyone who wished might have access to it. We know now that this opening of the Word was what was meant by His promised Second Coming, and that it was accomplished in the middle of the eighteenth century, when Emanuel Swedenborg was chosen and prepared by the Lord to receive and write down for us the basic principles by which the Word may be understood.

The four Gospels give us four different accounts of the appearances of the Lord after His resurrection. The account in John is the fullest. From our chapter for today we might think that the ascension took place almost immediately after the resurrection, but we must remember that in all the accounts of the Lord's life lapses of time between one event and another are often unnoted. From the book of Acts 1:3 we learn that the Lord was seen on earth for forty days after the resurrection. In that book also (Acts 1:1-14) Luke gives us a fuller account of the ascension than he was inspired to give in his Gospel. But it is in the Gospel that we learn that the ascension took place at Bethany, which you remember was the home of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus.

We should note something else which we learn from our chapter.

The Lord satisfied His apostles that He was not merely a ghost by showing them His hands and His feet, telling them to "handle" Him, and eating food in their presence, and He said, "A spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have." When we die, we leave behind us with our physical bodies our ability to see and hear the things which go on in this outer world. The bodies we have in the other world are made of spiritual substance. But the Lord, we are told by Swedenborg, made even the "ultimates" which He took on by birth in this world divine, so that He continues always to be in direct touch with this world. And yet we must not think that the Lord appeared after the resurrection in the finite physical body which He received through Mary, for that was a human, not a divine body. If He had risen in that body, the two disciples on the way to Emmaus would have known Him immediately, and also He could not have appeared and disappeared at will as He did. The best way for us to think of the Lord when we pray to Him and when we are trying to understand His teaching is as He appeared to John in Revelation 1:12-16. This gives us the thought of Him as a person and yet as one very different from any mere finite human being.

We have not tried to take up the correspondences in this chapter because the general lessons give us so much to think about. But we might notice that the Lord made Himself known to the two disciples in the breaking of bread, which is a picture of conjunction by means of good, and that the food which the apostles gave Him was broiled fish and honeycomb, the broiled fish representing their natural knowledges made serviceable through love and the honeycomb natural delights. Swedenborg tells us that here the broiled fish and honeycomb mean the letter of the Word and its pleasantness. This was what the Lord was able to share with His apostles.

