
=== Junior

With this class much should be done with the importance of this chapter to the New Church. Show the children what a privilege we have in being able to learn the very things the Lord told the disciples about the real meaning of the Word and even much more than He could tell them.

What event did we celebrate on Easter Sunday?

Who were the first to learn of the Lord's resurrection?

Why had the women come to the sepulcher?

What did they find?

Who told them the Lord had risen?

What did the apostles think of the women's story?

The two disciples of our story for today were not apostles, but they had evidently been devoted followers of the Lord. They were talking of all that had happened and they were sad, even though they had heard about the women's report. They could not really believe what they had been told. That was why, when the Lord came and walked beside them, "their eyes were holden that they should not know him." Before they could believe, He had to remind them of all that the prophets had said would happen to Him and show them that His resurrection was just what they should have expected, and He also had to show them some of the deeper meaning of the Scriptures.

By the time they reached Emmaus, which was over six miles from Jerusalem (a furlong is a little over six hundred feet), they were ready to believe, and so the Lord could open their eyes to recognize Him as they were eating together. This story means a great deal to New Church people, because in it the Lord Himself tells us that there is a deeper meaning behind the literal story of the Old Testament, a meaning which tells about Him. He opened the understanding of the two disciples and later of all the apostles to see this meaning. The disciples were simple men. Their hearts burned within them while He opened the Scriptures to them, but afterward they did not remember or write down what He told them. People of that time were not ready for this deeper knowledge.

But hundreds of years later, after men's minds had outgrown the simple ideas of those early times, the Lord again opened the understanding of a man to see the deeper meaning of the Scriptures, and this time He commanded the man to write down what he had learned so that all who wished could study the Word in its inner meaning. This man was Emanuel Swedenborg. The opening of the Word in this way for all mankind was the promised Second Coming of the Lord.

What did the two disciples do as soon as the Lord left them?

When did the Lord first appear to the eleven apostles?

What did they think at first?

How did He reassure them?

What final event took place at Bethany?

We learn in Acts 1:3 that the ascension did not take place until forty days after the resurrection, and the other Gospels tell us of some of the Lord's other appearances.

