
=== Notes for Parents

The Gospel of Luke does not tell us that the women who went to the sepulcher on the first Easter morning saw the risen Lord, but we learn from the other Gospels that Mary Magdalene was actually the first to see Him. The men who had followed Him because they were preoccupied with their own blighted hopes could not immediately see Him. The story of how He gradually made His presence known to them is told in our lesson for today.

We are all very much like the two disciples on the way to Emmaus.

We have the Scriptures. We ought to know what was prophesied about the Lord, and we ought to believe His promises. But we are likely to be so absorbed in what is happening to us right now that we do not look either back or forward. The Lord said to the two: "O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken." Are we not all too often "slow of heart to believe"? Our hearts are fixed on the things of this world.

The Lord did a wonderful thing for the two disciples and later for all the apostles. He "opened unto them the Scriptures." We all know how many different ideas people have of the Bible and that quite opposite teachings are drawn from it by various groups. This is because people do not pay attention to this teaching of the Lord that the Word needs to be "opened" if we are to understand it, and that in reality it teaches throughout of Him — not of the history of the Jews and other external happenings. If we insist on thinking that the literal sense of the Bible is all there is to it, we shall never know what it really means, for the letter of the Bible is full of apparent contradictions. Some sects, for example, just take certain statements which they want to believe and ignore the statements which contradict their chosen beliefs. Paul recognized this when he wrote, "The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life." (2 Corinthians 3:6)

We all know what parables are — we have studied some of them.

We can see that there is a deeper meaning within a parable. In our lesson for today the Lord teaches us plainly that the Old Testament as a whole — Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms — is a parable, with a deeper meaning which is about Himself.

The post—resurrection appearances of the Lord, and His ascension, which took place at Bethany forty days after the resurrection, taught the apostles two things: that He was always near them, whether they could see Him or not, and that He was God Himself. In that belief they went forth and founded the Christian Church.

