
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson should center in the nature and purpose of the Lord's post—resurrection appearances and the importance of this chapter for the New Church. Finish with emphasis on the need of constant study of the Word and of the writings.

---
The Gospels give us four different accounts of the post—resurrection appearances of the Lord. It is interesting to sit down and read them one after another — in the last chapter of each Gospel — and even to list the facts mentioned. We notice that the Lord appeared and disappeared. Sometimes, as in our chapter in Luke, He was not at first recognized. Yet He was able to show Thomas the prints of the nails in His hands and the wound in His side, and at least twice He appeared to eat food with His disciples. And the physical body which had been placed in the tomb disappeared, although the linen cloths in which it had been wrapped were left. All this adds up to what the Lord says in our chapter: "A spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have." He rose differently from the way in which we rise after death. When we leave our physical bodies behind us, we leave with them all conscious contact with the outer life of the natural world. But the Lord, as Swedenborg tells us, had in the gradual process of glorification made even the "ultimates" divine, and so lives with us always, even in our outward lives in the world.

In the two appearances which are described in our chapter His purpose was to impress upon the apostles — and upon us — the importance of studying and believing the Scriptures, and also to give the assurance that within the letter of Scripture is divine truth. He "opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures." There is no record of what He told them at that time, but the glimpse they had added depth to their later preaching. We have infinitely more than they had, for in these latter days the Lord has come again and not only opened the Word to the understanding of Swedenborg but caused, through him, the publication of the basic principles of its interpretation together with sufficient examples so that all who wish to make the effort may study it with assurance. We should all ask ourselves how far we are taking advantage of this wonderful thing which the Lord has done for mankind. Do our hearts "burn within us" as we read the Word in the light of the Second Coming?

The Lord said through Isaiah, "What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it?" The Lord speaks to us today through His Word and opens our understanding by means of the writings of Swedenborg. If we really love Him and want to be taught by Him, we can see Him rise from the sepulcher and walk with us by the way. When we doubt and fear, He says to us, as He said to the disciples: "O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken," and "Why are ye troubled?"

The Lord, forty days after the resurrection (Acts 1:3), ascended to heaven in the sight of His disciples. He ascends for us when we see that He is our Father in heaven as well as our savior, the only God of heaven and earth, from whom alone truth and goodness flow.

And He says to us, as He said to the apostles, "Ye are witnesses of these things," and promises to be with us always if we will tarry in Jerusalem until we have been endued with power from on high. To tarry in Jerusalem is to study faithfully the Word and the doctrines until we are so sure they come from God that we can give them to others without letting ourselves get into the picture.

In preparing for our occupations in the world, we know that we need to learn all we can in order to be effective. We should realize that this is equally true of our occupation as "witnesses" for the Lord. It is not our ideas but the Lord's truth in which is the power to enlighten and to save men.

