
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What happened on the first Easter Sunday? Jesus rose from death

Primary: Who first learned of the Lord's resurrection? the women

Junior: What did the apostles think of the women's story? idle tales

Primary: What were the two disciples talking about later the same day on the way to Emmaus? all that had happened

Primary: Who came and walked with them? Jesus

Junior: Why did they not recognize Him? their eyes were "held"

Junior: What did He say when they told Him why they were sad? "ought not Christ ... ?"

Junior: What did He teach them? about Himself in the Scriptures

Primary: What happened as they were eating together? they recognized Him; He vanished

Primary: How did they say they felt when the Lord was talking to them? heart burned within

Primary: What happened later as they told their story to the apostles? Jesus appeared

Junior: What did the apostles think? He was a ghost

Junior: How did the Lord reassure them? let them touch Him; ate some food

Junior: What did He eat? fish, honey

Junior: What did He then teach them? inner meaning of Scriptures

Junior: What did He tell them to do? wait in Jerusalem for power

Junior: What promise did He make to them? I am with you always

Primary: How was the Lord finally separated from them? ascended into heaven

Primary: Where did the ascension take place? Bethany

Intermediate: What does "breaking bread" represent? sharing in love

Senior: How can we now know many of the things in the Word which the Lord revealed to the disciples? the heavenly doctrines

Senior: How did the Lord's post—resurrection body differ from the one He took on from Mary? glorified, divine substantial

== THE WORD MADE FLESH — John 1

Remind the children of Jonah's attitude toward the Ninevites, since it was that attitude among the people which finally necessitated the Lord's coming. The Christmas stories should be mentioned and the fact noted that no actual account of the external circumstances of the Lord's birth is given in the Gospel of John. The first verse of the chapter may be used in all classes as the basis on which to build the lesson.

