
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
After a brief statement concerning the Minor Prophets as a whole and Amos in particular, the class time may well be spent in discussing the means the Lord has given us for understanding all parts of the Word and the importance to us of learning to use those means. The chapter from Amos may be discussed as an example, and the teacher may find it helpful at some point to read the passage from @AE 386[11] printed with this lesson. Too many New Church people today take their Scripture and their doctrines secondhand. Consequently much of the truth which is taken into their minds never becomes their own or does them any lasting good.

---
The twelve books from Hosea through Malachi, with which the Old Testament ends, are called the Minor Prophets. Most of us are not very familiar with them, although we all know a few verses from them by heart and we know at least part of the story of Jonah. Perhaps because the books are so short we do not easily identify them individually as we do the four Major Prophets. The study of scholars has been principally devoted to the effort to place the twelve historically, and one rather widely held conclusion is that with the possible exception of Obadiah the order in our Bible, which is the order established by the Israelites, is chronologically substantially correct. Some of the books place themselves. Others are judged on the basis of their references to known historical or natural events. For the New Churchman, however, it is the inner message which is of interest and importance, and this message is timeless. The chapter we have chosen from Amos offers a good example of the problems connected with the study of the meaning of the Minor Prophets, as well as of the general tenor of their prophecies and the practical lessons they contain for us.

Amos is one of those who gives us in the letter some information about himself. In the first verse of the book he says that he was among the herdsmen of Tekoa and received his call to prophesy during the reign of Uzziah of Judah and Jeroboam 2 of Israel. This places him as an early contemporary of Isaiah as well as of Hosea, and as an inhabitant of Judah, since Tekoa was a village about six miles south of Bethlehem, although the greater part of his message was directed against Israel. In verses 14 and 15 of the seventh chapter he tells us: "I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son; but I was an herdsman, and a gatherer of sycomore fruit: and the Lord took me as I followed the flock." In the same chapter there is also a brief passage telling how Amaziah the priest of Bethel tried to discredit him with king Jeroboam. On the basis of these few statements a commercial film for the use of Sunday schools has been developed. While such films are no doubt prepared with the sincere intention of interesting children in the Bible, we should realize that, in common with most Bible story books as well as with the more pretentious religious movies which are shown in theaters, such films introduce so much purely imaginary material that the mind is completely confused as to what is actually in the Bible. We are sometimes so glad to see anything of a religious nature offered in the entertainment field that we may not stop to estimate whether its effect is actually good or bad. The Lord Himself in His divine love and wisdom gave the Word. It does not need bolstering by our very limited understanding and imagination. The personal data given us in the letter are not there for the purpose of helping us construct a picture of the individual through whom the prophetic message was given, but, like all the rest of the book, for their spiritual meaning.

In His Second Coming the Lord gave us sufficient means for the study of the Word, so that with sincere effort we can receive some spiritual enlightenment even from the most obscure passages in the Prophets. An example of this is the vision recorded in the first verse of our chapter. The effort to find a meaning in this vision without the help of Swedenborg has been made. For example, a note on this verse in the International Bible Commentary reads: "summer fruit, i.e. fruit fully ripe, which soon rots; representing Israel as ripe for judgment", cf. Revelation 14:15, 18. This is perhaps as good and faithful an inference as the finite imagination could make from the verse in its letter. But in Prophets and Psalms Swedenborg summarizes the verse for us as follows: "A new thing of the church comes into existence," and relates the verse to the general topic, "A new church in place of the former." So we see that the vision has a good correspondence instead of a bad one, and although Swedenborg does not make any comment on the verse anywhere else, we can follow through with the help of the Arcana. From the story of Joseph and the dream of the chief baker we learn that a basket, as a container for food, represents the will or voluntary part. From the interpretation of the Lord's promise to Noah in Genesis 8:22 we learn that summer represents a state of charity. So we see the basket of summer fruit as picturing a new church in which the will would produce good works done in charity. The contrast between this true church and the state of the Israelitish Church as described in verses 4 to 6 makes clear why the end of that church was inevitable.

Throughout the Prophets, denunciations of evil are always accompanied sooner or later by promises of salvation for the good. These promises are not actually expressed by Amos until the latter part of the ninth chapter, but the condition which necessitates the coming of a new church with salvation is described in verses 11 to 13 of chapter 8. We should compare these verses with some of the Lord's statements when He came into the world, notably Matthew 23:13, 16. Verse 11 of our chapter is one of those passages in which the spiritual sense appears clearly in the letter and so helps to enlighten the sincere Bible reader as to the meaning of many other passages, such as the Lord's statement to the woman of Samaria in John 4:14. We recall Swedenborg's statement that the Word is like a man clothed but with his face and hands bare.

There are many quotations from Amos 8 in the writings. For example, we learn from @AC 3693 that in verse 9 "'to cause the sun to go down at noon' denotes obscurity as to truth with those who are in the knowledges of good and truth," and from @AC 4779 that in verse 10 "to bring up sackcloth upon all loins" signifies "mourning over destroyed goods." In several places, notably @AE 386[11], verses 11 to 13 are interpreted, and @AC 3923[6] gives the meaning of verse 14.

The Prophets are not beyond our understanding if we are willing to study and avail ourselves of the means the Lord has provided. And we know that the states of heart and mind to which the Lord addresses His message in the Prophets are not only states of churches and of nations but of individuals — of any one of us at one time or another. We need to read and understand the Prophets as we do all other parts of the Word. Remembering that the neck is the link between the head and the body, through which all the nerves pass which connect the two, let us take to ourselves the Lord's rebuke (Jeremiah 7:25-26): "Unto this day I have even sent unto you all my servants the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them: Yet they hearkened not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened their neck: they did worse than their fathers."

