
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the basket of summer fruit and the nature of the evils which were destroying the church are the principal lessons for this class, but the Intermediates should be impressed by verse 11 as an example of the places in the Word where the spiritual sense is stated in the letter. As other examples the teacher may read to them Revelation 5:8 and 19:8.

---
When we remember that a prophet is one who speaks for the Lord, we realize that there are things we need to know hidden within all the messages given to the Prophets to speak to the children of Israel, as well as within the visions they saw and recorded. There were, of course, things in the letter which had meaning for the Jews of long ago, but since the spiritual message was always meant to be for all people, there was much which they did not understand. The Prophets themselves had at best only the most external idea of what their visions and words meant — they knew merely that they were given them by the Lord and that they must be spoken and recorded. We ourselves often cannot get more than a glimpse of the inner meaning of the Prophets without a great deal of study, but in all of them there are some clear statements which apply to our spiritual states and needs as well as to our outward conduct, and in the writings of Swedenborg the Lord in His Second Coming has given us the means of studying further and finding as much of the inner truth as we are prepared to use.

In this lesson we are studying a chapter from Amos as an example. Amos is the third of the Minor Prophets as they appear in our Bible. He lived and prophesied in the time of Uzziah king of Judah (Amos 1:1), who was the third king before Hezekiah. We learn from Isaiah 1:1 that Isaiah also began to prophesy in the days of Uzziah, and the same is said of Hosea in Hosea 1:1. It is thought that Joel and probably Jonah belong to the same period. There is one thing which distinguishes Amos from many of the prophets. He was neither a priest nor one of those brought up in the "schools" of the prophets — called the "sons of the prophets" - but was a herdsman or shepherd (Amos 7:14-15) living, at the time when he was called by the Lord, in the village of Tekoa which was about six miles south of Bethlehem. He was given visions and messages for the people of both Judah and Israel, as well as concerning Edom, Ammon, and Moab. Like all the prophets, he pointed out the evils into which the people had fallen and prophesied the destruction which these evils would bring upon the nation, and he also encouraged the faithful with promises of eventual restoration and happiness.

This last promise comes at the close of the book (Amos 9:11-15), but it is foreshadowed by the vision described in the first verse of chapter 8, which we have for today. Swedenborg tells us that this vision of a basket of summer fruit means that "a new thing of the church comes into existence," and that the next two verses mean that "the old church comes to an end." A basket — which was a regular kind of container for bread and fruit — pictures our will part, which is the part in which we are to hold good. Fruit pictures good works. Summer represents the times when our hearts are warm with charity or love for the neighbor. This vision of the basket of summer fruit is given to show us what the true church is, so that we may understand how completely the Israelites had perverted their religion and why they could not be allowed to continue as the representative of the Lord's church in the world.

If we study the things said about them in verses 4 to 6, we find that, while they still observed the sabbath and some of the other religious statutes, they were impatient under them and that their hearts were given to greed and oppression. Our worship does us no good if our hearts and minds are not in it and if we do not try in our everyday affairs to act in the spirit of love to the Lord and the neighbor.

Verse 11 of our chapter is one of the places where the spiritual sense comes out in the letter. In giving the Word the Lord saw to it that those who really wanted to understand and do His will would have glimpses of the deeper meaning within the letter. So here He tells us plainly that there is a spiritual hunger and thirst which can be satisfied only by "hearing the words of the Lord." Hearing represents obedience. When your mother says, "Do you hear me?" she means "I expect you to obey." The spiritual famine and thirst were for the means of learning and obeying the truths of the Word. You remember that one of the Blessings is "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled." Anyone who keeps this verse from Amos in mind can understand something of the deeper meaning in every passage in the Word in which hunger, thirst, food, and drink are mentioned. We know, too, that the people of the Ancient Church, because they understood the spiritual correspondence of natural things, spoke and wrote to a great extent in the language of correspondence in which the Word is written. That is why so many correspondential expressions have come down into the common speech of all peoples. We all say so naturally "I see," "He has high ideals," "She has a warm heart," "He has a thirst for knowledge," and such things that it does not even occur to us that we are actually using correspondences.

This little study of just one chapter of the book of Amos shows us how much we can get by a little effort with the help of Swedenborg from the books of the Prophets, which may seem to us at first strange and hard to understand.

