
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors may be given much more general information, but the lesson from Amos is also a useful one, both as an example of the prophetic mission and for the basis which verse 11 affords for the presentation of the principle of correspondence. Be sure the children look up all the Bible references in their notes.

---
Let us look at the prophet Amos as an example of the so—called Minor Prophets. Amos, as we learn from Amos 1:1, lived in the time of king Uzziah of Judah, the third king before Hezekiah (see Isaiah 1:1). Amos came from Tekoa, a village about six miles south of Bethlehem, and he was a shepherd and not one of those men brought up in the schools of the prophets (Amos 7:14-15). But the Lord called him, and gave him words to say to the people of Israel and of Judah and also to the Edomites, Ammonites, and Moabites.

Most of the prophets were given visions as well as messages.

They did not know what they meant, but they did know that they were to write down just what they saw. The chapter we have for today begins with a vision.

What did Amos see?

What prophecy is in verse 2?

Then the Lord pointed out through Amos several of the sins which the people of Israel were committing.

See how many of these sins you can write down.

Notice that the first part of verse 5 shows that the people still observed outwardly some of the laws given through Moses for their worship. Look up the laws about the beginning of the months — the new moon — in Numbers 10:10 and 28:11. You know, of course, what the law of the sabbath was. But they were observing these laws unwillingly and with their minds full of thoughts of their dishonest plans, like people who go to church on Sunday because it makes them appear respectable, but think about their business or their social plans instead of about the service and the sermon, and during the week pay no attention to the commandments. In verse 5 the ephah is the name of a dry measure, somewhere between two and three pecks as we measure today. The shekel was a weight used for weighing uncoined money. So you can see just how they managed to falsify the balances or scales. Dishonest storekeepers sometimes do the same thing today.

There is one especially interesting verse in our chapter, and that is verse 11. You have been told that all of the Word of God has a "spiritual sense," that is, an inside meaning relating to our souls. Sometimes this meaning is showed us even in the letter, as it is in this verse. You know that a famine is a great and widespread scarcity of food, and we all know what thirst is. But here we read that the Lord is not speaking of physical hunger and thirst, but of another kind. Look up Matthew 5:6 and John 4:13-14 and see how this verse from Amos helps us to understand them. Did you ever stop to think why we speak of being "hungry for love" or of a "thirst for knowledge"? It is a form of speech which has come down to us and to people of other languages all over the world from the earliest times, when people knew that everything we see in the world about us is just a working out or expression in nature of things which go on in men's souls. When a nation — like the Israelites, for example — becomes so selfish and disobedient to the Lord that its religion is a mere sham, the few good people who are left have no way of finding out what the Lord really wants them to do. This is the famine that is not "of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord." Read Matthew 15:1-6 and see how the Lord describes what had happened to Judaism by the time He came into the world. But we know from the Gospel story that even then there were good people left — the ones who welcomed the Lord because they wanted to know how to live.

