
=== Notes for Parents

The last twelve books in the Old Testament are called the Minor Prophets. They are called "Minor" only because they are very short books, for their message is just as important as any other part of the Word. All the prophets were sent by the Lord to point out to the people the evils into which they had fallen and to warn them what the results would be, and also to encourage the faithful and assure them of salvation. The visions given to some of the prophets were to be written down, even though the prophets themselves did not understand fully what they saw. The words the prophets spoke were chosen by the Lord. They did not speak from themselves. This all the prophets tell us again and again. And what the Lord speaks is meant for all people in all times. So the messages of the prophets are messages from the Lord to each one of us.

Sometimes these messages are clear to us and sometimes we have to study hard to understand them. There are two clear messages in our chapter from the prophet Amos. One is the condemnation of the things the Israelites were doing, which are all things which people today are still doing. They were oppressing the poor, they were cheating in their business, and they were thinking about their worldly schemes even while they were pretending to worship the Lord. The prophet tells us that all these things are evil and will lead to the destruction of our souls.

The other clear lesson is that there is a kind of hunger and thirst which has nothing to do with material food and drink. It is hunger and thirst of the soul and it is even more demanding than that of the body. And the only thing which can satisfy this spiritual hunger and thirst is "hearing the words of the Lord." Hearing in the Bible — and even with us — means more than just receiving sounds by means of our ears. When you say to one of the children, "Do you hear me?" what you really mean is, "I expect you to mind!" Hearing always involves obedience. If you remember this verse from Amos, you can understand why the Lord tells us, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled," and why He said to the woman of Samaria, "Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life."

Let us remember how often the Lord said, when He had been talking to the multitude, "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear."

