
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The final lesson for the Seniors should be the possibility of understanding the Prophets if one is willing to study, and the practical value to us of such study.

---
We are taking Amos as an example of what can be found in the Minor Prophets which is of immediate practical value for our daily lives. We know that the books of the twelve Minor Prophets are all short, that with the exception of the book of Jonah there is very little "story" in them, and that they seem to be for the most part denunciations of the Israelites and others, with a sprinkling of prophecies of the Advent of the Lord. The study of many scholars has been largely an effort to place the books historically by trying to relate their statements to known historical events. But we know that the message of the Lord in the Word is not primarily a message to any one nation or time and is concerned with spiritual rather than with natural events.

The fact, for example, that Amos prophesied in the time of king Uzziah of Judah (Amos 1:1) is included in the text of the Word not for the purpose of identifying the man Amos but to show us that his prophecy relates to the particular stage in the decline of a church or an individual represented by the events and conditions of Uzziah's reign. The fact that he was originally neither a prophet nor a prophet's son, but a "herdsman, and a gatherer of sycomore fruit" (Amos 7:14) shows us the states of heart and mind which, in such a degenerating period, are open to receive the Word. In such a period the prophets and sons of the prophets are the official spokesmen for the perverted church who, as we read in Isaiah 30:10 (and we note that Isaiah was a contemporary of Amos), are called upon to "speak unto us smooth things, prophesy deceits," but a herdsman and gatherer of sycamore fruit represents one who is trying to preserve what goodness he has and to do right in his daily life.

In our chapter Amos is first given a vision of a basket of summer fruit. The rest of the chapter, with its denunciation of the people of Israel and the prophecy of their destruction, is such a contrast to this simple, lovely vision that we may not see in the letter any reason for the vision itself at first. Swedenborg in his summary interpretation of the chapter in Prophets and Psalms says of verse 1: "A new thing of the church comes into existence," and relates this verse to the general topic "A new church in place of the former." Of verses 2 and 3 he says: "The old church comes to an end," and this is related to the topic "The church totally devastated, and its destruction." The person who is trying to be a true servant of the Lord is first shown the bright promise of what is to come which may support him through the dark days ahead, just as we are given a knowledge of the spiritual world to sustain us when our lives here are difficult. The basket of summer fruit pictures a heart full of charity leading to good works. This is what the true church in a person is.

The evil practices of the Israelites were in direct contrast to this.

They oppressed the poor, were dishonest in their business practices, and even while observing the forms of worship they were not thinking of the Lord but inwardly planning evil. Such a life leads to spiritual destruction and death. In the Gospels the Lord tells us the same thing when He says of the scribes and Pharisees (Matthew 23:25) that they "make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess."

In the same chapter of Matthew the Lord calls the scribes and Pharisees "blind guides" and says to them, "Ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in." This is a description of the time foretold in Amos 8:11, when the good would be spiritually hungry and thirsty because they had no access to the Word of the Lord. Those who possessed and could read it and were supposed to teach it made it "of none effect through their tradition." Each of the successive churches ended in this way, and each time the Lord raised up among the remnant of good people a new church. We saw this at the end of the Most Ancient Church in the story of the flood and the preservation of Noah, and at the end of the Ancient Church in the story of the Tower of Babel and the call of Abram. The Prophets give us in much greater detail the account of the vastation of the ancient Jewish Church, which was followed by the Advent of the Lord. And the book of Revelation describes the decline of the first Christian Church, the final judgment, and the establishment of the New Jerusalem.

You young people, like Amos, have been given to see the vision of the basket of summer fruit. As you go out into the world, be on your guard against being drawn into the selfish and profane practices of the world, and keep your hearts pure and your minds open to hear the Word of the Lord.

