
=== Notes for Parents

Our story for today tells us many things which will help us all through our lives, if only we are willing to believe them. One thing it shows us is that belief is a matter of our free choice. Sometimes we hear people say, "I wish I could believe that death is not the end." They could believe if they were really willing. Mary and Martha and Lazarus were willing; the chief priests and the Pharisees were not. Belief involves changing our lives and we tend to put off making such an important decision.

The Lord tells us plainly that all are raised up after death, not on some distant judgment day but immediately. He told His disciples first, "Our friend Lazarus sleepeth" and then "Lazarus is dead." Both statements were true. For death is nothing more than going to sleep in this world and waking up in a much more beautiful and happy one.

You notice that when the Lord was first told that His dear friend Lazarus was sick, He said: "This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God." He knew that the work of Lazarus in this world was not finished, and that He would reawaken him here. This life is our school. We all have work to do here — work for others and also the work of forming our own souls into the image and likeness of God. It is right that we should hope for a long life here, so that we may do all the good and make all the progress we can. But still this is just our beginning, and we should trust the Lord to decide when it will be best for us to be transferred to our eternal homes, and we should look forward to that time. Death is always a blessing for the person who dies, however we may feel the loss here. The only death we should fear is the death of goodness in our hearts. This is the death which is meant in John 11:26 of our chapter. If we do not make up our minds here to believe in the Lord and try to obey Him, we are in danger of letting our own selfish and worldly desires kill out in us all possibility of becoming the kind of people who live in heaven.

