
=== Notes for Parents

The ark, we remember, was a chest made to hold the two tables of stone on which the Lord wrote the ten commandments on Mount Sinai. It was the only article of furniture in the Holy of Holies of the tabernacle, and from between the two golden cherubim on the mercy seat — which was the cover of the ark — the Lord spoke to the high priest, we are told, "by a living voice" (Numbers 7:89). And we remember the wonderful things the ark had accomplished for the children of Israel: the parting of the waters of Jordan and the bringing down of the walls of Jericho.

All the stories in the Bible about the ark are given us by the Lord to teach us about the place the commandments should have in our lives and about the effect which our regard for the commandments has upon everything we think or do. They belong in our Holy of Holies: they should be "written on our hearts." We should keep them from love to the Lord and because we love to do what the Lord wants us to do. But in our story for today the Israelites took the ark out of the tabernacle and brought it down to the battlefield to give them victory over their enemies, the Philistines. And instead of winning the battle, they were defeated, and the ark was captured and carried off into the Philistine country. When we try to use the commandments to judge other people but are not keeping them ourselves, the Lord cannot give us the victory. Instead, we ourselves are judged.

The Philistines, in the story of the children of Israel, picture a certain kind of temptation. They worshiped the idol Dagon, which had the head and hands of a man but the body of a fish. We know what we mean when we say, "That sounds fishy to me." We mean that the thing is not what it professes to be. When we claim to be good people and talk about being good but are not trying to keep the commandments, the "Philistines" have carried off our "ark."

But the ark immediately began to show its power. When they put it in their temple beside the image of Dagon, Dagon fell down and its head and hands broke off, leaving it nothing but a fish. So the commandments show our professed righteousness to be nothing but a sham. And then a plague broke out among the people and mice began to destroy their crops, just as all our secret evils appear when we begin to compare our lives with what the commandments tell us they ought to be.

So the Philistines sent the ark back to its own country with a trespass offering. When we see that we have been only pretending to be good people, the thing to do is to put the commandments back where they belong, at the heart of everything we do. The trespass offering is our sincere repentance and intention to become really good, to be unselfish instead of selfish in our conduct.

