
=== Adult

Since this lesson on the Ancient Church will be centered on the end rather than on the beginning of that church, it will be better to point out the difference between the two "churches" in this lesson. Discussion should also bring out the fact that "faith alone" is a doctrine still common in some churches and that as individuals we are all believers in that doctrine to the extent that we take it for granted that we shall get to heaven just because we go to church.

---
We have seen that the seventh day of creation — in addition to its meaning for our individual lives — pictured the celestial state of the people of the Most Ancient Church, a state in which, because they loved the Lord and trusted Him wholly, they could be instructed in His truth by an inner way. This beautiful state is further pictured by the description of the Garden of Eden.

But we remember that men were not content to remain in this state. Self-consciousness developed in them — represented by the creation of Eve — and through it the temptation to reason from the evidence of their physical senses — the serpent — instead of trusting the inner dictate of truth from the Lord. So they were driven out of the garden. Man, once he begins to develop self-consciousness and to assert himself, loses the innocent, trustful state of his early infancy and comes into the hard necessity of learning from experience. We think of the development of a child as an advance from infancy to maturity, and on the external plane it is; but spiritually it is a decline, a progression downward from the celestial to the natural state.

In the internal historical sense of the Word we see this decline clearly in the description of the character of the successive churches. The story of the birth of Cain and Abel and the slaying of Abel by Cain is the basis of our understanding of this decline. Swedenborg says of it: "As this chapter treats of the degeneration of the Most Ancient Church, or the falsification of its doctrine, and consequently of its heresies and sects, under the names of Cain and his descendants, it is to be observed that there is no possibility of understanding how doctrine was falsified, or what was the nature of the heresies and sects of that church, unless the nature of the true church be rightly understood. Enough has been said above concerning the Most Ancient Church, showing that it was a celestial man, and that it acknowledged no other faith than that which was of love to the Lord and toward the neighbor. Through this love they had faith from the Lord, or a perception of all the things that belonged to faith ... But the case is far different at this day, for now faith takes precedence of charity, but still through faith charity is given by the Lord, and then charity becomes the principal. It follows from this that in the most ancient time doctrine was falsified when they made confession of faith, and thus separated it from love. Those who falsified doctrine in this way, or separated faith from love, or made confession of faith alone, were then called 'Cain.'"

The name Cain means "possession." Cain represents faith, a faith of the mind, believed to be self-derived and so separated from charity. Abel represents charity, love to the Lord and the neighbor in the heart. Abel was a keeper of sheep. Sheep, we know, represent innocent affections. Cain was a tiller of the ground. The ground is the mind in its natural state. We are told (@AC 345) that "Those were said to 'till the ground' who look to bodily and earthly things." Both Cain and Abel brought offerings to the Lord, the offerings representing worship. Of Cain's offering Swedenborg says: "That by the 'fruit of the ground' are meant the works of faith without charity, appears also from what follows; for the works of faith devoid of charity are works of no faith, being in themselves dead, for they are solely of the external man" (@AC 348). Abel's offering of the firstlings of the flock and of the fat thereof represents love and the faith thence derived, the fat representing "the celestial itself."

Even in the letter we are not left in doubt as to the reason why Cain's offering was not accepted. The Lord looks upon the heart, and in the Lord's sight Cain did not "do well." The state of his heart became evident when he slew his brother. Of this, as it applies to the later state of the church, Swedenborg says (@AC 369): " ... while both faith and charity were from the doctrine of faith, yet faith separate from love could not but disregard and thereby extinguish charity; as is the case at the present day with those who maintain that faith alone saves, without any work of charity, for in this very supposition they extinguish charity." Cain's attitude is also clearly expressed in his question, "Am I my brother's keeper?"

Nevertheless, the Lord does not permit Cain to be destroyed.

The killing of Abel represented the destruction of the innocent love in the heart through which, up to that time, the Lord had been able to instruct and guide mankind. The Lord had foreseen that man would develop in this direction and was providing a new means of reaching him and saving him from himself. Of the successive churches on the earth only the Most Ancient Church was of the celestial type. In @AC 393 we read: "The Most Ancient Church was of such a character as to acknowledge no faith except that which is of love, insomuch that they were unwilling even to mention faith, for through love from the Lord they perceived all things that belong to faith. Such also are the celestial angels of whom we have spoken above. But as it was foreseen that the human race could not continue to be of this character, but would separate faith from love to the Lord, and would make faith a doctrine by itself, it was provided that they should indeed be separated, but in such a way that through faith — that is, through the knowledges of faith — men might receive from the Lord charity, so that knowledge or hearing should come first, and then through knowledge or hearing, charity — that is, love toward the neighbor, and mercy — might be given by the Lord, which charity should not only be inseparable from faith, but should also constitute the principal of faith. And then instead of the perception they had in the Most Ancient Church, there succeeded conscience, acquired through faith joined to charity, which dictated not what is true, but that it is true, and this because the Lord has so said in the Word." Faith — even faith without charity — is better than no faith at all. So long as a man recognizes God with his mind there is a possibility that something in the Word may strike home to his heart and that he may "come to himself," as we read of the prodigal son (Luke 15:17-19): "And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants."

