
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The emphasis should be on the use the people of the Most Ancient Church made of their freedom of choice, and on its direct result in the separation of faith and charity. Clear instruction should be given as to the meaning of faith and charity and the necessity of both in our lives.

---
We are all familiar with the story of the Garden of Eden, and you have perhaps learned that it is an allegory given us by the Lord to hold in our minds as a picture of the peaceful, happy state in which the man lives who is in genuine love to the Lord, trusting the Lord completely and looking to Him for guidance and support in all things. This was the state of the people of the Most Ancient Church and is the state of the celestial angels. The picture given us of the Garden of Eden is a more detailed development of the state described by the seventh day — the goal of creation.

But we know that the people of the Most Ancient Church did not remain in this happy state. They were men and women — not mere automatic recipients of the Lord's blessings. They had their own reasoning faculty and they had freedom of choice, just as we have today. In time they became restless under the Lord's direction and wanted to lead themselves. This is represented in the story of the temptation of Eve by the serpent and the eating of the forbidden fruit. Then they were driven out of the garden to "till the ground" from which they were taken. They had chosen to lead themselves, and the happy, innocent, peaceful state was gone. From that time on they had to work for their spiritual bread.

Now in the story Adam and Eve have two sons. All through the Word the birth of children pictures new developments of goodness and truth or of evil and falsity — depending on the spiritual state of the parents. When the first people were driven out of the garden, they had taken a downward step spiritually, but they were by no means evil. They still recognized the Lord and intended to serve Him. But their desire to decide for themselves led to a divided mind, because they were resisting the Lord's guidance. In the Word when two sons are born, one always represents truth or faith, and the other goodness or charity. Faith is belief in the Lord in our minds. Charity is love for the Lord in our hearts. Both are necessary, because we have to learn what is right and we have to want to do it. The two "brothers" should always be each other's "keepers."

But we know that sometimes people have good intentions but do not make the effort to learn what is right, and also that sometimes people who know the truth and acknowledge it with their minds do not want to live according to it. In our story Cain represents faith. He was a tiller of the ground, and the ground represents the mind. Abel represents charity. He was a keeper of sheep, and sheep represent innocent good affections.

Each brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of his own toil and the Lord accepted Abel's offering and rejected Cain's. Does this mean that the Lord wants our hearts but not our minds? That He wants us to love Him without trying to understand Him? The Lord said, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment." In our religion we must use our minds as well as our hearts. And in the story the Lord says to Cain, "If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted?" It was not Cain's offering that was at fault but what was behind it in Cain's heart. For the Lord knows our hearts. Do people ever profess to believe in God, go to church, and support the church because it will make them better pleased with themselves and more respected in the community in which they live?

When people try to appear religious for selfish reasons, charity — true love of the Lord and the neighbor — is killed. Cain's jealous rage in the story is repeated again and again with all self-centered people. His question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" is answered by the Lord Himself in John 13:34, an answer which is incorporated in our own Statement of Faith. We should all know this verse, for it is a bulwark against selfish passions.

When faith is separated from charity — that is, when people think it is enough to know what is right without doing it — their minds have no firm foundation. A good, kindly life is the true home of the soul. Selfish people are driven from this home and wander about from one disappointment to another, a prey to falsity and evil. So Cain became a fugitive and a vagabond. But the Lord protected Cain so that he should not be killed. Faith — the study and acceptance of the truth — is absolutely necessary to us, for without it we have only our own ideas to guide us. So the Lord always preserves faith in the world somewhere.

