
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This class should have a thorough review of the story of the Garden of Eden. They should have the details of the story fixed in their minds, but should also understand that it is a Divine allegory which teaches us about the spiritual history of mankind and about developments in our own souls.

---
In how many days or stages was the world created?

What was the final creation?

How does man differ from the animals?

What is his proper relation to the other things in the world?

What did the Lord do on the seventh day?

How did He set the seventh day apart?

When the Lord was in the world, what did He do on the sabbath day? What simple rule did He give for it?

You all know the story of Adam and Eve and the Garden of Eden which follows the story of creation. Let us see how many of the details we remember.

How was the Garden of Eden watered?

Into how many branches did the river divide?

What tree was in the midst of the garden?

What other tree is mentioned?

What were Adam and Eve told about this second tree?

What did the Lord say would happen if they ate of its fruit? Who persuaded them to disobey the Lord?

How were they punished?

We know that this story is an allegory, a kind of parable, in which the Lord is describing for us — under the figure of the beautiful, fruitful garden and the man Adam and his wife Eve — the happy, peaceful state of the people of the Most Ancient Church, the first church formed among men after they had been instructed and developed by the Lord. Over and over again in the Bible the Lord tells us that if we will only learn the true way of life from Him and follow it, He will give us freely everything we need and will make us happy. The trouble with us — just as with Adam and Eve in the story — is that we think we know better than the Lord what is good for us. So we disobey first our parents and teachers and afterward the Lord Himself, and then we have to learn "the hard way."

And our story goes on to show us that one disobedience leads to others. After they were driven out of the garden we learn that Adam and Eve had two sons.

What were their names?

Which was the older?

What was his occupation? What was Abel's occupation?

What offering did Cain bring to the Lord?

What offering did Abel bring?

Which offering did the Lord accept?

When we first read this story, we sometimes think the Lord was unfair. The two offerings were different but apparently each man brought the best he had. When you are a little older, you will learn what each of these offerings really represents, but even in the literal story you can find the explanation of the Lord's rejection of Cain's offering if you look for it. Read verse 7 and remember what kind of person Cain afterward showed himself to be.

You know that we sometimes pretend to be good when we are not, but the Lord always sees our hearts. Cain pretended to be worshiping the Lord when he brought his offering, but his heart was selfish. He was really just trying to buy the Lord's favor. People today may do the same thing. They may pretend to believe in the Lord and may go to church regularly and give money to the church and for charity when there is no love for the Lord or the neighbor in their hearts. Like Cain, they are just trying to win favor and honor, and when they do not get what they want, they become angry and try to hurt other people, just as Cain in the story rose up and slew his brother Abel. Cain's character was just a further development of the wrong turning which Adam and Eve took when they chose to follow their own judgment instead of obeying the Lord. Cain did not want to acknowledge his obligation to love the Lord and cherish his brother. If we obey the Lord, each one of us sees that he must be his brother's keeper, helping those about him in every possible way.

You can see how this story pictures for us the difference between genuine love for the Lord and a declaration of belief in Him which has no real love in it. Love and faith are two brothers who must live and work together. When either one is destroyed, unhappiness follows. Cain became "a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth." He would always have to live in fear and he would never have a settled home. Selfish and evil people are always in this unhappy state inside, even when they seem to be prosperous outwardly.

The Lord did not permit Cain to be killed. Cain represents faith, and faith is necessary. For as long as we even profess to believe in the Lord, there is always a chance that we may see our selfishness and turn from it and begin to do better. Read Ezekiel 18:23.

