
=== Notes for Parents

When the first people created upon the earth had reached the stage of development pictured by the seventh day, they became the first great "church," the Most Ancient Church. They were very different from people today. They cared little for the things of this world and lived in close touch with heaven, trusting the Lord and depending upon Him for guidance and care, just as a little baby depends on his parents. In the Bible the beautiful state in which they lived is pictured as a garden — the Garden of Eden. Mythology calls this the Golden Age.

But we all remember that there was one tree in the garden of whose fruit the Lord had commanded them not to eat, and that the serpent tempted them to doubt the Lord's wisdom and to try the forbidden fruit. The tree of knowledge of good and evil pictures the belief that we ourselves are able to decide what is right and wrong, and the serpent is our five natural senses, which show us only the things of this material world.

When Adam and Eve listened to the serpent instead of to the Lord and ate of the forbidden fruit, they were driven out of the garden. As soon as a child yields to the promptings of his physical nature and his natural inheritance and begins to think that he knows better than his parents, he loses the happy, trustful state of infancy. As soon as a man decides that this world is all-important and that he does not need the Lord to tell him how to live, he has started on the downward path away from heavenly happiness.

After Adam and Eve were driven out of the garden, two sons were born to them. Cain and Abel represent faith and charity. Faith is recognition of the Lord in the mind and charity is love of the Lord and the neighbor in the heart. They are brothers, meant to work together and help each other in the service of the Lord. But when men think that they can guide themselves, these two brothers are separated. Then faith in the Lord becomes mere "lip service" — Cain's offering — and all genuine love is killed; for true, unselfish love comes only from the Lord as we learn of Him and obey Him.

The Lord did not allow Cain to be destroyed even after he had killed his brother, because as long as we even say we believe in the Lord and go through the outward forms of worship, there is hope that we may read or hear something which will make us stop to think and change our ways.

