
=== Primary

The notes suggest a simple approach to the lesson and a practical way of connecting it with the children's experience. Stress the point of willful disobedience and its results rather than going into detail about the garden and the serpent. Cain's disposition can then be discussed as one of the consequences of the original turning to self-will.

In the Bible, after the story of the creation of the earth and everything on it, the Lord tells us a story about the beautiful Garden of Eden which He gave to men to live in. They had everything they could possibly want. There was only one thing He told them not to do, and that was to eat of the fruit of one particular tree, the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

But the first people, who in the story are called Adam and Eve, wanted to try this fruit and so they disobeyed the Lord, just as you sometimes make up your mind to do the very thing your father and mother have told you not to do, even though you have been told plainly that something bad will happen if you do it. Adam and Eve, because they wanted to have their own way instead of obeying the Lord, had to leave the beautiful garden and go out and work very hard for their living.

After a while Adam and Eve had two sons. Let us read the story about them. [Read Genesis 4:1-15.]

Who was the first son of Adam and Eve?

Who was the second?

What was Cain's occupation? What was Abel's?

What offerings did they bring to the Lord? Why did the Lord not accept Cain's offering?

The Lord is never deceived when we only pretend to be good. He knows our hearts.

How did Cain show that the Lord had judged him correctly?

What did he say when the Lord asked him where Abel was? Really each one of us is his brother's keeper.

Each of us should do all he can to help others.

When we listen to the first part of this story, it seems to us, doesn't it, that both brothers were trying to please the Lord, and that Cain's offering was just as good as Abel's. But the Lord knows what is in our hearts, and He saw that Cain was only pretending to be good. Cain did not really love the Lord. The kind of feelings he had in his heart were the kind which led him to kill his brother. If there is love in our hearts, we will show it by trying never to hurt other people but instead always to help them and make them happy.

