
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The young people should be led to think seriously of the practical effects of the separation of faith and charity in the individual and in the history of the church and the world. The quotation from @AC 362 at the end of the lesson should be read and discussed, as it describes a tendency to which we all are subject and which is the cause of many conflicts.

---
Cain and Abel are the first of several pairs of brothers in the Bible. When our desire and our thought unite — which all marriages in the Word picture — they produce results in our hearts and in our minds. These are the children. Usually new desires are pictured by daughters and new thoughts by sons. But as our desires come to our consciousness in our minds, things of the will may also be pictured by sons. So two brothers always picture the will and the thought side of a new development.

We say that Cain and Abel picture faith and charity: mental acceptance of a truth and the will to do it. The two are brothers. They belong together. For truth is of no use to us if we do not live according to it, and the desire to do right comes to nothing if we do not know what is right.

Cain, who represents faith, is born first because every new step in our progress through life comes to us first through some new knowledge or idea entering the mind. But Swedenborg tells us that into each truth that we learn the Lord insinuates the feeling that we ought to live according to it. This is the birth of Abel, or charity. And it is the basis of what we call conscience.

Cain's offering of the fruit of the ground is our acceptance of truth with our minds. This is necessary and right, but it is worthless unless our will is to live according to the truth. Abel's offering represents this acceptance by the will. The Lord said to Cain, "If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted?" Goodness is nothing else than living according to the truth from a desire to serve the Lord. When we see the truth but do not try to live according to it, the Cain in us kills his "brother" Abel. His punishment is that he becomes a fugitive and a vagabond. When we do not apply to our conduct the truths that we learn, we live in constant fear of disgrace or punishment and our minds have no settled abiding place.

One common idea of faith is that it is blind belief in something we cannot understand, and a widespread idea of charity is that it is giving to the poor. The New Church regards them quite differently. Faith is belief in what we have found to be true, belief which actually directs our thought and action. And charity is the desire of the will to serve the Lord and the neighbor instead of self. Faith is not really faith unless we act according to it, and charity is not really charity unless it looks to the Lord for guidance and recognizes Him as the giver of all good.

From our lesson for today we learn that the separation of faith and charity — which is something we find in ourselves as well as in the life of the world about us — began long ago in the Most Ancient Church. You may remember from our last lesson that the serpent's words to Eve (Genesis 3:1-5) picture the first inclination of men to question the truth as it came to them from the Lord and to rely on their own judgment based on what they saw about them in the world, and that this was the beginning of the decline of the Most Ancient Church. The separation of faith and charity is the inevitable result of the choice of self as a guide in place of the Lord. The quotations at the end of this lesson show how this separation affected all later history.

