
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: Where did the Lord place the first people? Garden of Eden

Primary: What were they to do there? dress it and keep it

Primary: How was the Garden of Eden watered? four rivers

Junior: What tree was in the middle of the garden? tree of life

Junior: What other tree is mentioned? the tree of the knowledge of good and evil

Primary: What were the people told not to do? eat of tree of knowledge of good and evil

Junior: What did the Lord take out of Adam while he slept? a rib

Junior: Into what did He make it? a woman

Primary: How did the first people disobey the Lord? ate forbidden fruit

Primary: What was their punishment? driven from the garden

Junior: Did they repent? no

Primary: What did the Lord finally decide to do? destroy man

Junior: Why did He save Noah and his family? they were good

Primary: What did He tell Noah to build? ark

Junior: Can you describe the ark? gopher wood, coated with pitch, three stories, rooms, a window, a door

Primary: Who went into the ark with Noah? wife, sons, their wives

Junior: What were the names of Noah's three sons? Shem, Ham, Japheth

Primary: What else did Noah take into the ark? pairs of all creatures

Senior: What is meant by eating of the tree of knowledge of good and evil? looking to self for truth

Intermediate: What is pictured by the flood? truth falsified and made destructive

Senior: What is the symbolic meaning of the ark? good character formed by obeying the Lord

== THE END OF THE FLOOD — Genesis 8

Every teacher should read for background the chapters which have been omitted, Genesis 5 and 7, and should study the brief explanations of this transition period in the notes for the various age levels. From the Junior level up, emphasis should be placed on the difference between the Most Ancient Church and the Ancient Church as to the nature of the people. Throughout our study of the Bible there will be many references to these two churches and to the "celestial" and "spiritual" types, and the children should become familiar with them. The simplest illustrations come from their knowledge of the difference between a baby and an older child.

