
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
A little more has been done in the Adult notes with the personal application of the lesson than in the notes for the other classes. The teacher should study all the notes from the Older Children up and be prepared to discuss whichever application seems to interest the class most. In any event, he should first make sure that the class is familiar with the historical events involved before proceeding to the meaning of the prophecies.

---
We may recall that in our lesson on the story of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, Korah and the two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly who were jealous of Moses and Aaron were slain by fire from the Lord as they offered their incense before the door of the tabernacle, and that this is a picture of how love from the Lord is turned into hatred in the hearts of those who seek to exalt themselves. In @HH 570 we read: "As infernal fire is the love of self and of the world it is also every lust of these loves, since lust is love in its continuity, for what a man loves he continually lusts after. Infernal fire is also delight, since what a man loves and lusts after he perceives, when he obtains it, to be delightful. Man's delight of heart is of no other source. Infernal fire, therefore, is the lust and delight, that spring from these two loves as their origins. The evils flowing from these loves are contempt of others, enmity, and hostility against those who do not favor them, envy, hatred, and revenge, and from this fierceness and cruelty; and in respect to the Divine they are denial and consequent contempt, derision, and detraction of the holy things of the church; and after death, when man becomes a spirit, these evils are changed into anger and hatred against these holy things." Malachi 4:1 is one of several passages quoted in support of this interpretation.

That the people by and large were in this spiritually destructive self-love in the time of Malachi is evident from the charges made against them in the first two chapters of the book and in verses 5 to 15 of chapter 3. And that they were still in that state for the most part four hundred years later when the Lord was on earth is evident from many passages in the Gospels.

Malachi and the two Prophets whose books precede his in the Bible prophesied after the return from captivity in Babylon. Even in the time of Haggai, the first of these three, less than twenty years after the return, the people were already pursuing their own worldly affairs instead of completing the rebuilding of the temple, and were beginning again to intermarry with the idolatrous nations of the land. They refused to heed the warnings of the Lord or to learn the lessons taught by experience. So Malachi was the last prophet sent to them until the appearance of John the Baptist as the herald of the Lord. Their attitude toward their religion is well summed up in Malachi 3:14: "It is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the Lord of hosts?"

Yet throughout the two chapters of our lesson we see that there were good people in Malachi's time. Malachi 3:16 in its letter is a picture of the quiet drawing together of the good in times when evil forces seem to be in control, and the beautiful promise given them in verse 17 is one which every sincere worshiper of the Lord may cherish. The amazing thing is that the remnant of good people persisted throughout the four hundred years in which there was no new voice from heaven, but we learn from the writings that when a church is being vastated, the Lord always preserves a remnant out of which a new church may be built; as we read in Isaiah 17:7: "Yet gleaning grapes shall be left in it, as the shaking of an olive tree, two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough, four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof, saith the Lord God of Israel." That during this long period the promises of the Messiah made through the Prophets were the support of this remnant we learn from many statements in the Gospels, notably from the stories of Simeon and Anna in Luke 2:25-38.

In Malachi 4:1-2 the effect which the Lord's coming would have on the evil and on the good is told in the vivid contrast of the consuming fire and the rising sun. The only ones who do not welcome the sun — either natural or spiritual — are those who have "loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." To all the good its light and warmth are welcome, and the sun of righteousness — the Lord Jesus Christ — also brings "healing in his wings." @AE 283[9] tells us that in this verse the sun of righteousness is the celestial divine and the wings of Jehovah the spiritual divine or the one is the good of love and the other truth from that good. Wings in general represent spiritual truths which have the power to lift our thoughts above the plane of worldly living to heights from which we can see life in its true proportions and relationships, and it is this higher view which enables us to cleanse our minds of many afflictions and limitations. And it is said that we shall become "as calves of the stall." The Lord's coming makes our outward affections wholesome and productive and, as verses 3 and 4 teach us, makes it possible for us to overcome our temptations and to live freely according to the commandments.

Later we shall take up the fulfillment of the prophecy in Malachi 4:5-6, the prophecy with which the Old Testament leaves us, but there are one or two things in verse 6 which we may consider here as preparation. We might note that the word commonly translated "children" in both the King James and the Revised Standard Version is actually sons, and Swedenborg consistently uses the more literal translation, which is important to the spiritual interpretation, since sons represent truths. In @AE 724 Swedenborg quotes this verse (using the word sons instead of children) and gives us this interpretation: "From this it may be concluded what 'turning the heart of the fathers to the sons and the heart of the sons to the fathers' signifies, namely, that it means inducing a representation of the conjunction of spiritual goods with truths and truths with goods, thus of regeneration by the Lord by means of the Word. For regeneration is the conjunction of goods with truths and of truths with goods, and it is the Lord who regenerates, and the Word that teaches."

We may perhaps understand a little of what is meant by the last words of this verse - "lest I come and smite the earth with a curse" — by thinking again of the Lord as the sun and of how dangerous it would be for a physical eye from which a cataract had just been removed to be suddenly exposed to the full sunlight. We know that one of the objects of the Lord in the Advent was "to open the blind eyes." The simple good of that day were spiritually blind, because the knowledge of the Lord's teaching in the Word had been obscured by the traditions of the elders. The full light of truth coming to them suddenly would have plunged them into despair and self-destruction. So a messenger was sent to prepare the way.

