
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of a number of verses from the lesson has been suggested in the Intermediate notes, but the principal lesson this time is the historical position of Malachi as the last prophet sent to the ancient Jewish Church and the general meaning of his prophecies in relation to the end of that church era.

---
We have come to our last lesson in the Old Testament. The last three of the Minor Prophets prophesied after the return from captivity in Babylon. In Malachi's time Jerusalem and the temple had been rebuilt and worship was being conducted according to the rites prescribed through Moses. But most of the people had not really changed at heart. They had come back not from any real desire to serve the Lord but in the hope of re—establishing their nation and becoming rich and powerful again. And they had been disappointed. They were neither rich nor great. They were not even really an independent nation. So they had begun to "rob God" by bringing unfit offerings (Malachi 1:7-8) and were asking what was the use of serving God at all; they were also beginning again to put away their Hebrew wives and marry wives from the other nations.

So for the last time they were accused by the Lord, their evils pointed out, and they were warned to turn from them if they wished the Lord to protect and prosper them. They did not heed the warning. The nation continued for four hundred years after Malachi before the Lord finally came, most of the time under foreign control, but no more prophets were sent to it. And the same charges against it which Malachi makes are made by the Lord in the Gospels against the people of that later time.

But there were good people among them in Malachi's day, and Malachi's chief message was a message of encouragement and hope for them — a message which, with others of the same kind in the other Prophets, supported the good and kept them faithful throughout the four hundred years, for we know that there were good people when the Lord came who, like Simeon (Luke 2:25), were "just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel." These people are especially described in verses 16 to 18 of chapter 3, and are promised that they shall be among the Lord's special possessions or "jewels." Swedenborg says in one place that precious stones represent "truths translucent from the love Divine," and we are told that angels love to feel that all the good they do and the wisdom they seem to have are the Lord's love and wisdom acting through them. So we may think of the Lord's jewels as angels, and we may all be angels insofar as we receive and transmit love and truth from the Lord. You remember that an "angel" is a messenger. The name Malachi means "my messenger."

Two messengers are spoken of in our lesson. One is the Lord, who is called "the messenger of the covenant." The word testament means a covenant or agreement. The Old Testament describes the working out of the covenant made through Moses that if the people would faithfully observe the laws and statutes given them at Sinai, the Lord would protect and prosper them. This covenant, as we have been learning, the nation repeatedly broke and finally completely violated. The Lord had foreseen that they would, and so again and again throughout the Old Testament we find promises that the Lord Himself would one day come into the world to establish a new covenant with the good people that should be left. The prophecies of our lesson are the last of these promises. They tell us plainly that the day of the Lord's coming was to be a terrible day for the wicked. Read Malachi 4:1. Thinking of this lesson as it relates to the history of the world rather than of the individual soul, we realize that this prophecy was historically fulfilled. But we should keep in mind that these chapters have also their application to us as individuals.

The effect of the Lord's coming upon good people is described in Malachi 4:2. In the Word the Lord is often likened to the sun, and we remember that in the Creation story, the appearance of the sun on the fourth day pictures the development of love to the Lord in the heart. Wings picture interior or spiritual truths, which have the power to lift our thoughts above worldly things. This is what the Lord brought to men when He came into the world, and what the good needed to enable them to distinguish between right and wrong and to overcome their evils; so the Lord brought "healing in his wings."

But when the Lord came, even the good people would need to be prepared before they could receive Him. There have been actual cases of people who with good intentions have through ignorance done something which resulted in great harm and have committed suicide in despair when they suddenly realized what their deeds had caused. People need to be shown their faults one by one and led to correct them before the deep evils in their hearts are revealed to them. That is the wise and gentle way of the Lord in dealing with each one of us, and it was the way in which He dealt with the good remnant when He came into the world.

Malachi 4:2 tells us that they shall "grow up as calves of the stall." Calves represent exterior goods. Then verse 3 says that they shall tread down the wicked, and this means that they shall begin to overcome the evils in themselves. And in verse 4 they are told to remember the law of Moses. This order is a picture of the way in which all who sincerely want to be good are reformed, first by learning to do right according to the commandments and then by fighting and overcoming the selfish desires that prompt them to do wrong. You remember that the whole wilderness journey of the Israelites was a picture of the period of reformation.

Now that the church had become completely perverted, good individuals were not able to learn from their church just what they ought to do and to be. But they were promised that the Lord would come and establish a new covenant with them and that Elijah the prophet would be sent to them first to prepare them to receive the Lord. What this promise meant and how it was fulfilled is the subject of a later lesson.

