
=== Junior

This is a good lesson in which to bring out the meaning of Testament and the difference between the Old and the New. The Juniors should get as definite an idea as possible of the structure of the Bible. The difference between willful wrongdoing and wrongdoing from ignorance is another important lesson; also that evil lies in putting self-interest above the desire to do what the Lord says is right. Stress the prophecy in regard to Elijah as a preparation for beginning study of the New Testament.

---
You remember that after seventy years of captivity in Babylon the people were allowed to return to the Holy Land. They did not all return. Some had become satisfied with their life in Babylon and did not want to go back. They helped the others, however, with money and supplies, and the king restored part of the vessels and treasures of the temple which had been carried to Babylon. After some delays and difficulties Jerusalem and the temple were rebuilt, but there is no mention that the ark was ever restored. No one ever knew what became of it.

After the return three prophets were raised up among them: Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi. The word Malachi means "my messenger." Almost all the prophets foretell the coming of the Lord, but the prophecies in the last two chapters of Malachi are those which most directly connect the Old Testament with the New.

In the first verse of chapter 3 Malachi speaks of a messenger who shall prepare the way before the Lord, and then he speaks of the Lord Himself as the "messenger of the covenant." So you see there are two different messages to be given. The first is only a preparation for the second. The Lord Himself will make a new covenant or agreement with men. To see what this covenant was to be, look up John 13:34-35 and then Matthew 5:17-18. The covenant which the Lord Himself made with men when He came into the world in person was based on the keeping of the commandments just as the Old Testament covenant had been, but the commandments were to be kept in a new spirit of unselfish love. More than mere obedience is required of those who want to be disciples of the Lord.

Two kinds of people are described in our lesson: the people whose first interest is in their own worldly prosperity and the people who want more than anything else to do right in the Lord's sight. The Lord through Malachi for the last time warned those who were of the selfish kind and told them that if they would only change their ways and return to the keeping of the law, He would still spare them and prosper them. But His words had no effect on the worldly and selfish. The nation continued for four hundred years after Malachi before the Lord came, but no more prophets were sent to it. The people observed the outward forms of their worship, but their hearts were unchanged; we learn this from many things the Lord says in the Gospels.

Yet there were good people among them in Malachi's time and there were still good people among them when the Lord came, as we shall see when we begin the study of the New Testament.

In our lesson how does the Lord say His coming will affect the evil?

How will it affect the good?

In Malachi 4:2 to what does the Lord compare His coming?

In the Word the Lord is often compared to the sun, because He gives warmth and light — love and truth — to our souls just as the sun gives warmth and light to our bodies.

Now read the last two verses of chapter 4, the very last verses of the Old Testament.

Who is to be the messenger who will prepare the way of the Lord?

What is he to do?

Why is this preparation necessary?

All of you come from homes in which you are taught what is right and wrong, and you go to Sunday school and learn about the Lord and what He wants you to do and to be. But you know that there are some children who do not have these advantages. They have just as good intentions as you have, but they grow up doing many very wrong things because they do not know any better. Do you remember how badly king Josiah felt when he found the book of the law and realized how many wrong things the people had been doing, partly because they didn't know any better? If people were to be brought too suddenly to see just how bad their lives were, it would be something like a stroke of lightning. They would feel that they were beyond all hope. They need to be shown first some of the wrong things they are doing and encouraged to give them up, and then when they find it is possible and that they are happier in right ways, they are ready to learn about the deeper things which the Lord requires of them.

That was the way it was with the good people when the Lord came. Their priests and the scribes and Pharisees had not been teaching them what the Lord really wanted them to do, but only things which would make these selfish leaders richer and more powerful. Read Matthew 15:1-9. So even the good people were doing many very wrong things from ignorance, and the messenger had to be sent to them to prepare them before they could receive the Lord.

