
=== Senior

The Seniors should know the general history of the return and its results and have a clear idea of the state of the ancient Jewish Church in its last centuries and the reason why it would reject the Messiah to whose coming it nominally looked forward. More will be done later with the personal application of Malachi's last prophecy.

---
The word Malachi means "my messenger." Because it is so appropriate to the content of the book, some students have thought that it was not the name of a person at all. But we know that all the names in the Word have meanings related to the spiritual sense and were providentially given for that purpose. Every prophet is a messenger of the Lord, each with a particular message. The message of Malachi, the last of the twelve Minor Prophets, like all parts of the Word, has its deepest application with reference to the Lord's life, its secondary application to us as individuals, and its third application to the history of the Lord's church in the world, as well as its literal meaning. In general, in our Sunday school lessons we study the personal application of the Bible story, because as children and young people we must learn how the Lord wants us to live. But since this lesson marks the end of our Old Testament series and gives us the connecting links which join the Old to the New, we shall think rather of the literal story and of the internal historical application.

After seventy years of captivity in Babylon the people had been allowed and even helped by Cyrus to return to the Holy Land and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple. This story is told in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah. From them we learn that all the people did not return — not because they could not, but because they did not want to. And we also learn that those who came back were more interested after they arrived in reclaiming the land and rebuilding their homes than they were in completing the temple and restoring their worship, and that they easily fell back into their old evils of seeking worldly objectives and of intermarrying with the idolatrous people of the land. In these early days of the return the prophet Haggai was sent to spur them on to the completion of the temple. Zechariah followed Haggai, and finally Malachi was sent with a last warning. After Malachi, for four hundred years — until the appearance of John the Baptist — no prophet was sent to the nation. Most of our Bibles do not contain the books grouped under the name "Apocrypha" which tell the history of this period. During the greater part of it the nation was under the control of foreign powers, and when the Gospel story opens, we find them, as you know, under the dominion of a Roman governor, although they also have their own nominal king. This is the external history.

In our chapters from Malachi we find the key to the internal states of the people in his time and during the rest of the nation's history. Verses 5 to 15 of chapter 3 give a general picture of the evils into which the nation had already fallen, and others are described in the two preceding chapters. Notice particularly verses 14 and 15, which show that most of the people who returned from Babylon did not return because of devotion to the Lord but because they hoped to become rich and prosperous again. In other words, the motive in their worship was selfishness.

Another class of people, however, is described in verses 16 to 18 of chapter 3. You remember that all through the Bible story, as the successive churches declined, there has always been a "remnant" who remained God—fearing and faithful — even after they no longer knew the truth — out of whom a new church could be built up. This remnant continued to exist in the nation throughout the next four hundred years, as we learn from the Gospels. The shepherds at Bethlehem, Zacharias and Elisabeth, Mary and Joseph, Simeon and Anna could be told immediately of the Lord's birth. In Luke 2:25, for example, we read of the aged Simeon that he was "just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel," and when the Lord, an infant eight days old, was brought into the temple, Simeon was given to know that this was the promised "consolation," the Messiah, and he took the Lord in his arms and spoke the beautiful words which we know as the Nunc Dimittis.

Malachi's message foretells the effect which the Lord's Advent was to have upon the evil and upon the good. The evil would reject Him and so would judge themselves. The good would receive Him gladly and submit willingly to the process of purifying which the fire of direct contact with His divine love would begin in their lives. His coming is likened to the rising sun. The light of truth will bring joy and healing to the good, but the evil will be tormented by it because, as we read in John 3:19, they have "loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." The great majority rejected the Lord when He came.

In the good remnant, however, there were only a few when the Lord came, in whose hearts and minds there was still the innocence which could receive the Lord immediately. Most of them had been led, through the misrepresentations of their priests and leaders, into evils which would have thrown them into utter despair if the new light had come too suddenly into their darkness. So the last two verses of the Old Testament are a promise that a prophet will be sent to prepare them to receive the Lord when He comes, and Elijah is named as this prophet. The meaning and fulfillment of this prophecy will be the substance of a later lesson.

