
=== Notes for Parents

On the very night on which the children of Israel celebrated the Passover feast, they started on their journey out of Egypt. The Lord showed them the way they were to go. All through their journey, which was to take a much longer time than they thought, He went before them in a pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night.

We all know the story of how Pharaoh changed his mind and sent an army after them which caught up with them at the Red Sea, and how the Red Sea parted before them and, after they had crossed, closed in upon the Egyptians who tried to follow. Then the pillar led the Israelites into the wilderness.

We start on our journey from Egypt to the Holy Land when we realize that living for self and the world is slavery, and determine to obey the Lord and find our way to the kind of living which the Lord calls "blessed." In the beginning of our journey we are eager and enthusiastic, and the way opens before us. But it is not long before we meet difficulties which discourage us, for there are many bad things in us which have to be recognized and overcome one by one. The wilderness journey, with all its trials and disappointments, is still before us.

Our chapter for today tells of two of these trials. The children of Israel are on their way to Sinai and are being led through a dry valley called Rephidim, and they are very thirsty. At the well in Samaria our Lord said, "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst: but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." The water which gushed from the rock of Horeb when Moses struck it with his rod is this same living water, truth for our daily use coming from the Word of God. You remember that the Lord is called in the Bible both the Rock and the Word.

Immediately after their thirst was satisfied, the Israelites had to fight their first battle. When we learn some new truth, it is not really ours until we have used it to overcome some evil within ourselves. But in order to win we must lift our minds above the low valley in which we are and look steadily to the Lord for help; and just as Aaron and Hur held up Moses' hands, so all our good resolutions and principles must be used to steady and support us.

