
=== Senior

The Seniors are on the verge of adult life and are about to leave Egypt and begin the wilderness journey. All the stories of the wilderness wandering have, therefore, a very practical value in preparing them for the temptations they should recognize, and showing them the technique to be followed in fighting them.

We sometimes think that if we had been in the place of the Israelites — had seen the pillar of cloud and fire continually before us, had seen the Red Sea part for our passage and then close in over our enemies, had tasted the water of Marah before and after its miraculous sweetening, had eaten the quails and gathered the daily manna — we could never have complained or doubted again. Yet all these stories are symbolic pictures of our own common experience. The Word is our pillar of cloud and fire, always before us to lead us in the right way. The Lord has protected us and fed us throughout our lives. And yet, when hardship or temptation comes, time after time we complain and falter and doubt.

In our lesson for today the children of Israel, who have been traveling southward along the Red Sea, have turned inland on their way to Sinai and are going up a narrow, dry valley, or wadi, called Rephidim. And again they are complaining of thirst. We recognize thirst as picturing a lack of truth. Have you ever heard a good church member — perhaps you yourself — say in the face of some impending trouble, "I just don't know what to do; why should I have this hardship?" This is the Israelites complaining to Moses almost to the point of stoning him. And the Lord answers, "Take with thee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest the river, take in thine hand, and go." This means: take some of the principles to which you have been assenting in church, and your knowledge of all that the Lord has done for you in the past, and apply it to your present problem. Go to the rock in Horeb — to the truth as you find it in the Word — and strike the rock with your rod. Go to the Word with the real intention of using what you find there, and you will be given the truth you need in the present — the water of life.

The Lord knows the enemy which is lurking in ambush when a person is in this state. And He knows that we shall not make any further progress until we recognize and fight this enemy. The enemy is Amalek. Amalek, whose name means "valley dweller," was a grandson of Esau, one of those degenerate offshoots of the line of Abraham which represent in us the persistent effects of our early self-will and self-interest. As we learn from Deuteronomy 25:17-18, Amalek waited in ambush and attacked Israel from behind, falling on the weak stragglers. So when we are tired and discouraged, it often seems that all our old bad habits spring out to attack us.

Joshua, first mentioned here as the leader in the battle, was later to take the place of Moses. He represents the truth fighting. The Israelites are not yet well enough organized, however, to conquer by his leadership alone. For example, in our early battles, when we try to use the truth in argument — whether with other people or with our own selfish feelings — we are often overcome became we are not yet experienced in its use. But the Lord shows us in this story how we can conquer even the most insidious temptations. We still have Moses, the principle of simple obedience to the commandments. This obedience brings the Lord's power into our lives. Moses went up on a hill and lifted up his hands to the Lord. We must persist in our obedience to the commandments, lift up our minds above the low state in which we are fighting, and look to the Lord for power to overcome. We should always remember that we do not really believe in the Lord if we do not trust in Him.

When Moses grew tired, he sat down on a rock, just as we must "rest in the Lord," and Aaron and Hur held up his hands. Moses, Aaron, and Hur in the story picture the three means by which the Lord sustains us through the temptations which attack us when we are tired and discouraged. Moses stands for truth directly from the Word; Aaron, the doctrines of the church; and Hur, all the things we have learned in church and Sunday school which help us to understand and apply the truth. A little later (Exodus 24:13-14) when Moses was about to go up into the mount to receive the commandments, he told the people to go to Aaron and Hur if they needed guidance while he was gone. Steadfast reliance upon the truth as it has come to us in all these three ways will enable us to hold out until the temptation is over — until the "sun" of our immediate selfish desire goes down.

And when we conquer, we should not take the credit to ourselves but should, like Moses, build an altar to the Lord to mark the place of victory so that we may remember that the Lord will always be at hand to give us strength if we look to Him.

