
=== Notes for Parents

The kingdom of Israel was conquered by Assyria and all its people were carried away captive, never to return. Foreigners were brought in to take their places, and the descendants of these people were the Samaritans of Gospel days. We shall hear more about them later when we study the Gospel.

The king of Assyria tried to conquer the kingdom of Judah also and besieged Jerusalem, but the good king Hezekiah asked the Lord's help, and the Lord by a miracle destroyed a large part of the besieging army and caused the rest to go back to their own land. But Hezekiah afterward made a serious mistake. He received some emissaries of the king of Babylon and showed them all his treasures. The prophet Isaiah was then sent to tell him that the king of Babylon would eventually carry off all these treasures and that Hezekiah's own descendants would some day be servants in the court of Babylon.

Our lesson for today tells us about the fulfillment over a hundred years later of this prophecy. Babylon had increased in power and had absorbed Assyria and extended its control even to Egypt. Only one of the kings who descended from Hezekiah — Josiah — was a good king. The others were idolatrous and evil, and so the Lord could no longer save Judah. The Lord will not force us to serve Him, and He cannot save us if we refuse to heed His Word and to obey the commandments.

The great prophet Jeremiah lived in the last days of Judah, and Zedekiah, the last king, even went so far as to consult him, but Jeremiah told him that the end of Judah was at hand. There always is an end to our opportunity to reform, although many people do not like to think so. The results of a bad life cannot be wiped out in a moment, and when we go into the other world, we remain what we have made ourselves by our daily choices here.

Judah was conquered by Babylon, and its royal household and all its able men were carried away, and Jerusalem and the temple were destroyed. But the "poor of the land" — who represent those who are humble in heart and recognize their own weakness and need of the Lord — were allowed to remain in their homes in the Holy Land.

