
=== No. VI. - CRITICAL EXAMINATION OF JEPHTHAH'S VOW. Judges xi. 31

As some modern writers have thought thej' have succeeded in clearly establishing the more pleasing view of the fate of Jephthah's daughter from the very words of the vow; and I have nevertheless stated, that I think that the most unforced inference from the language of the original, and from the history in general, is, that the sacrifice took place; it seems necessary to give a view of the progress and present state of opinion upon the subject, and critically to examine the various renderings which have been proposed.

Four different senses, in ages distant from each other, have been given to the words of the Hebrew original.

1. The first is this: "Whosoever cometh out of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Amnion, shall be the
Lord's, and I will offer him up for a burnt-offering."
2. The second is that adopted in the text of the common English Bible:
" Whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house, &c. -- shall be the Lord's,
and I will offer it up for a burnt-offering."

3. The third is that given in the margin of the English Bible: "Whatsoever cometh out of the doors of my house, &c. --  shall be the Lord's, or I
will offer it up for a burnt-offering."

4. The fourth was proposed about sixty years ago by Dr. Randolph, and is this: "Whosoever cometh out from the doors of my house, &c. -- shall be the Lord's; and I will offer (to) Him [naniehy, the Lord,] a burnt-offering."
These shall be called, in the following remarks, the first second, third, and fourth renderings or translations.

I. How the transaction was understood by the Jews while Hebrew was their vernacular language, it is impossible to determine; but certain it is, that, in the most remote period to which our means of ascertaining their sentiments extend, they understood the vow in the first of the above senses: they believed that a human sacrifice was intended by Jephthah from the beginning,
and that his daughter was actually put to death.
Thus the Greek version commonly called that of the Septuagint, which was made by the Jews between two and three hundred years before the Christian era, gives the pronouns in the masculine gender: o (Kiropeuo^vos os av e^e\8r] cktuu dvpwv rov qikov fxov,
 -- €stci rov Kvpiov, kcu avoicw avrou o\oKaviwfj.a: of which the first renderWith this, also, the ing given above is an exact translation in English.
Latin Vulgate, supposed to have been made from the Septuagint in the first century, and corrected by Jerome from the Hebrew in the fourth, completely coincides.

Josephus, the next ancient Jewish testimony, gives a sense agreeable to our

second rendering, or that of the text of the English Bible: he makes
Jephthah promise "to offer in sacrifice what living creature soever should first meet him", and he affirms that the vow, in that sense, was executed by him;
" he sacrificed his daughter as a burnt-offering, offering such an oblation as
The same sense was neither conformable to the law nor acceptable to God."*
One is given in the Targum, or Chaldee Paraphrase, which was written later.
or the other of these two renderings, was received, for many ages, by all who read the Scriptures, both Jews and Christians.

The celebrated Rabbi, David Kimchi, who flourished in the twelfth century,
seems to have been the first who proposed the third translation, or that
This has been since adopted by given in the margin of the English Bible.
many commentators and translators: and the discussions on the subject were for a long time confined to the question, which of the two renderings, (our
The arguments pro and con, may be second and third,') should be preferred.
£een at large in Poole's Synopsis, and in many other works: but as a specimen of the nature of the discussions which are included in this inquiry, and as a remarkable instance of the great obscurity which hangs over the whole question,
we give some observations of Noldius on the subject.

because it

This learned writer, in bis Concordantice Particularum Ebrao-Chaldaicarum, among the instances in which the Hebrew particle 1, which commonly signifies and, bears the sense of or, adduces this vow of Jephthah: on
Kimchi in hoc loco, &c. --  "Kimchi on the place,
which he adds this note.
and in his Michlol, says, n*m &c
It shall be sacred to Jehovah, if it be not litfor sacrifice; or / will offer it as a sacrifice, if it be jit for sacrifice.
This is a right distinction: for many things might be consecrated to God, (Lev. xxvii.
2 to 9, 11, 14, 16;) but only these five might be sacrificed; viz. oxen, sheep,
(Lev. i. 2, 10, 14.) The meaning then is, that the goats, doves, and pigeons.
daughter of Jephthah, as she could not lawfully be sacrificed, was consecrated to the peculiar worship of God. -- -Whether or not she was put to death, is, howCapellus, in his Diatribe on Jephthah's ever, a question of great difficulty.
vow, contends for the affirmative:
is said, (Lev. xxvii. 29,)
"Every thing devoted (Cherem) shall surely be put to death:" from which he gathers, because (ver. 28) men, as well as other things in our power are mentioned as liable to be devoted by Cherem, that children might lawfully be devoted and put to death by their parents, and servants by their masters. A
harsh and unreasonable assertion ! nor is it much softened by Hachspan and
Maimonides, who only allow this right to be possessed by the Israelites over
For though the servitude of these was perpetual,
their Canaanitish slaves.
and they were not, like Hebrew servants, to be emancipated in the seventh
; yet they were under the common protection of year or in the year of jubilee the laws, which provided that they should not be ill-treated, (Ex. xxii. 21,
and xxiii. 9, Lev. xix. 33, Deut. x. 19, Zech. vii. 10;) and even pronounced a curse against those who should oppress them: (Deut. xxvii. 19; comp.
Mai. iii. 5, and Num. xv. 16, 29:) hence the Jews could not assume over them, much less over their own children, the right of life and death: and the
As to the passage, Lev. xxvii.
Scriptures afford no example of their doing so.
28, 29, by which Capellus defends his opinion, Maimonides rightly distinguishes between the Cherem of God and the Cherem of the priests, (Num.
xviii. 14,) which Leusden more clearly designates as the destructive and the
* Ant. B. v. Ch, vii. § 10.



1 Ks. xx. 42;

1 Sam. xv. 3;

common Cherem.
The former hind includes such things as were either to be put to death in honour of God, as clean animals for sacrifice, (Lev. xxvii. 28,)
or to be destroyed as abominable, (Num. xxi. 2, 3; Deut. vii. 26; Jos. vi. 7,
18, and vii. 12, 13;
Is. xxxiv. 5 & 43; Zech.
xiy. 11; Mai. iv. 6; Ezr. x. 18: This is called Anathema, Rom. ix. 3; 1 Cor,
The latter hind includes whatever was destined to xii. 3; Rev. xxii. 3.)
sacred uses, never more to return to its former owner, (Lev. xxvii. 28; Num.
xviii. 4; 1 Sam. ii. &c.)
It is in vain that Capellus adduces the words,
Every Cherem, [Lev. xxvii. 29,] to support his opinion; what is meant is,
Evert destructive Cherem.
Thus it is said [Num. xviii. 14,] "Every
Cherem shall be given to the priests;" and yet that which was killed must be excepted; viz. that which was anathema, --  the hostile and the sacrificial
Cherem, &c. -- for this, being taken out of existence, cannot be said to be given to the priests.*
Universal propositions are not always absolute, but the subject must always be such as suits the predicate.
The execution of Jephthah's vow was postponed for two months: and who can believe, in all this time, even if the people did not interfere, as they did in the similar cases of
Saul and Jonathan; (1 Sam. xiv. 44, 35;) that the priests would not have prevented the perpetration of such a parricide? which they might have done
Having offered these by a simple statement of the law upon the subject."
arguments, with so much appearance of conviction, against the idea of the execution, our learned author here pauses, and then proceeds thus: "These were our first thoughts upon this question; but upon re-examining them, I am almost brought to follow the reasons advanced on the other side, and to acFor beside that this is steadily affirmed by knowledge the actual immolation.
so many Fathers, Rabbins, and Divines; I do not see how Jephthah, who was a pious and prudent man, could have been so deeply moved (ver. 35,) for the mere consecration of his daughter to the service of God, if she was to suffer
But further: we never read of any such custom among the nothing worse.
Jews, as that of vowing perpetual virginity: on the contrary, to be childless was esteemed by them a reproach (1 Sam. i. 10, 11, Luke i. 25,) wherefore
Nor do we read this was what the daughter of Jephthah lamented (ver. 37).
that females ever undertook the Nazariteship; and yet even the Nazarites were not restricted to celibacy f; as may be seen in the cases of Samson and
Samuel, [who were dedicated to God from their birth.]
Finally, the long continued custom of an annual assembly and lamentation of the virgins in all
Israel, seems to demand more serious origin than a young woman's remaining unmarried. And suppose Jephthah's wife, or some other married person of his family, had come out to meet him; how would the devotion to celibacy then
Such instances of living single for a pious purpose as are have taken place?
mentioned Luke ii. 37 and 1 Cor. vii. 5, were either not enforced by a vow, or were for a time only: but we no where read of vows of virginity; much less of parents making such vows for their children. And the separation of
David's concubines (2 Sam. xx. 3,) was not made in pursuance of any vow,

* These two kinds of Cherem are better illustrated iu Dr. Randolph's discussion on the subject.

f This argument is met by Dr. Randolph with an observation which is certainly of considerable weight: He remarks, that devotemcnt of females, differently from that of males,
must have included abstinence from marriage, because the latter engagement would abrogate the former, and the domestic duties of the wife and mother would be incompatible with h constant attendance on the sanctuary.

but on account of the incest by which they had been defiled, and independently
From all which it will of their own will; whereas all vows must be free.
follow, that Jephthah's daughter was sacrificed."

These are the reasons which led Noldius to relinquish his first sentiments but whoever wishes to see a very strong defence of the opinion that Jephthah's daughter was actually immolated, by a recent author, should consult the celebrated Michaelis's Commentaries on the Laws of Moses, by Dr. Smith,
For the best modern defence of the vol. ii. p. 276 to 279 and 286 to 290.
contrary opinion, see Dr. Randolph's Sermon, entitled Jephthah's Vow Considered: in which he proposes our fourth translation: which we are now to notice.

Dr. Randolph makes Jephthah's vow to include two things; first, the consecration to the peculiar service of the Lord of some person; and, secondly,
The foundation the offering to Him, as a burnt-sacrifice, of some clean animal.
of his translation is a remark of Buxtorf's in his Thesau. Gram. L. ii. c. 17;
where, having explained the construction of the Verb with the affixed Pro-
" This construction often gives rise to a connoun, he adds, Denique, &c.
tracted and elliptical form of speech; the affixed pronoun serving instead of a
Dr. Randolph dative, accusative, or ablative, with a preposition prefixed."
therefore supposes the affix, in, which is joined to the verb of offering,
CirVfi^tf m) to be here used instead of the regular pronoun and preposition i
?,
and construes it accordingly as a dative, referring it, as its antecedent, to
Jehovah, not to whatsoever or whosoever; which gives the sense stated above.
This thought so pleased Bishop Lowth, that, in his Isaiah, he speaks of it thus: "A late happy application of this grammatical remark to that much disputed passage, has perfectly cleared up this difficulty, which for two thousand years had puzzled all the translators and expositors, had given occasion to dissertations without number, and caused endless disputes among the learned, on the question, whether Jephthah sacrificed his daughter, or not: in which both parties have beeen equally ignorant of the meaning of the place, of the state of the fact, and of the very terms of the vow: which now at last has been cleared up beyond all doubt by my very learned friend Dr. Randolph,
Margaret Professor of Divinity at Oxford, in his Sermon*," &c.

1

II. Such being the history of the four renderings, what is the present state of opinion on the subject?

After such a commendation, by such a judge, in a book so well known, of
Dr. Randolph's explanation: and after this had been adopted also in another well known work, Parkhurst's Heb. Lexicon; one would have expected to find it received into all later comments on the Scriptures published in this country yet this is far from being the fact. Even Home, who, in the Appendix to the first Volume of his "Introduction", offers short answers to the principal infidel objections, though he mentions Dr. Randolph's Sermon in a note, takes no notice of his solution of the difficulty, but gives an extract from Dr. Hales, who follows the third interpretation; being one of those which are so contemptuously spoken of by Dr. Lowth. Among the modern British annotators on the
Bible, D'Oyley and Mant, Brown (last edition by Raffles,) and Reeve, also adScott honestly rejects this as not supported by the vocate the third rendering.
natural meaning of the words, and strenuously contends for the second rendering and the actual sacrifice. Dr. A. Clarke, after appearing to favour the thirdt
* Note on Ch. xlii. IG.



abides, without naming Dr. Randolph) by his, or the fourth translation: but as he gives it, it is adapted to have but little weight; since he does not notice the grammatical argument afforded by Buxtorf, which is its chief support;
and, provided the Hebrew pronoun may be translated by the English him, he seems to think it of no consequence, whether that him answer to a dative or an
Indeed, he here exhibits a strange hallucination, but little in acaccusative.
cordance with the high attainments in Biblical literature, for which some give
Randolph's, or our fourth rendering, is expressly given by Hewhim credit.*
lett alone. What is remarkable enough, D'Oyley and Mant give the practical reflections with which Randolph concludes his sermon, but take no notice of
Altogether, it is evident, either that Dr. Randolph's view is his explanation.
hitherto but very partially known, or that it has met with but very partial approbation: I have not, however, seen any thing urged expressly against it.

III. Having stated the four renderings, their history, and the present state of opinion respecting them, we will give a brief estimate of the probability of each, as favoured or otherwise by the grammatical construction of the vow,
and by the thoughts which Jephthah must have bad in his mind when he uttered it.

The first and most ancient rendering, or that of the Septuagint and the
Vulgate, which gives it, "Whosoever cometh out of the doors of my house,
&c. --  shall be the Lord's and I will offer him up for a burnt offering;" is liable to no grammatical objection whatever, but is that which the words, if they alone be considered, most naturally present: yet as it is attended with the insurmountable objection of supposing that Jephthah had a human sacrifice in his thoughts when he made the vow, it has now, I believe, no advocates: it found one, however, not much more than a century ago, in Seb. Schmidt, who,
in his Latin Translation of the Bible, gives the passage thus: "Exiens, qui exibit extra januas domus rnese, &c. --  erit Jehovae, et offeram illum (in) holo-

caustum."

The second rendering, which may be called that of the translators of the
English Bible, being adopted by them in their text, -- "Whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house, &c. -- shall be the Lord's, and I will offer it for a burnt offering;" is in like manner liable to no grammatical objection: but it supposes Jephthah 's thoughts, when he made the vow, to have been such as it
It makes him intend to offer was scarcely possible that they could have been.
in sacrifice the first living creature that came out of his house to meet him when he returned in peace from the children of Ammon: but what living creature could he conceive most likely to come to congratulate him on his victory?
a human being or an animal?
Could he have thought of any but a human being? and, among human beings, who so likely as the one he best loved?
Or if, by some strange fatality, this never entered his head, could he think it probable that any animal that could be lawfully sacrificed would come forth to
Had he a sheep, a goat, or an ox, so tame, attached, and intelligent, as him?
to run to fawn upon him with joy on his return?
As has been remarked by others, the only animal likely to do this, would be a dog: but this was an animal that could not be offered in sacrifice.

* He supposes that, instead of the affix in. it; might originally have been K1H: -- that &,
the nominative instead of the accusative! But for this, he says, there is no absolute need,
n» in the above verse, may with as much propriety be translated
"because the pronoun him, as it." True: but {OH, understood of a person, must be translated he!


H
The THIRD rendering, or that of Kimchi, -- "Whatsoever corneth forth of the doors of my house, &c. -- shall be the Lord's, or I will offer it for a burnt-

that the particle )

offering;" is liable to a very important grammatical objection.

It is certain is never nsed to disjoin things so completely as this transIt might, indeed, easily be shewn, that the particle always lation supposes.
retains its proper meaning as a copulative; and that, even when used disjunctively, it still connects the words to which it is joined with some common affirmation; quite the contrary of which would be the case if it were used dis-
(See Gusset. Coram. Ling. Ebr.y Most critics have therefore junctively here.
felt that this rendering is extremely forced an! harsh, and bave only acquiesced in it to get rid of what they esteemed a greater difficulty.
It also makes the second clause of the vow entirely unnecessary; for if Jephthah meant to say,
that whatsoever came out of his house should be consecrated to the Lord in such manner as was suitable to its nature, this is fully conveyed in the first clause; and the addition of the second, separated from the former by an or, instead of helping to determine his meaning, is of no use but to perplex it.

Finally, the fourth, or Dr. Randolph's rendering, "Whosoever corneth out of the doors of my house, &c. -- shall be the Lord's, and I will offer (to)
him a burnt-offering;" seems to come within the rules of grammar, and it supposes nothing that must necessarily have been foreign to Jephthah's thoughts:
it meets the expectation he must naturally have had, that a human being would be the first to come to meet him; and when he resolved to consecrate that person to the Lord, it is not unlikely that he should propose to accompany the ceremony with a burnt-sacrifice.
Dr. R.'s version is, nevertheless, attended with considerable difficulties; and as I have nowhere seen any critical remarks upon it, I will offer the following.

Although Dr. R.'s translation appears to be justified by the usage of the sacred writers, it certainly does not follow their common usage; nor, though probably the true rendering, is it one which any Hebraist would have thought of, if not driven, by the necessity of the ease, to seek for a meaning different from that first presented by the words.
He, accordingly, candidly acknowledges that it is not without difficulties; and he chiefly relies upon moral
These, of course, lend equal support to the considerations for its support.
third or Kimchi's rendering, and are much the same as the advocates of that rendering usually offer: but against that, the grammatical objections are so great, that (for this reason, I suppose,) Dr. R. has thought it unworthy of the
For his own, he offers, in addition to his moral arguments, two least notice.
philological ones; the value of which I will endeavour to estimate.

The first, as already noticed, is founded upon an observation of Buxtorf's.
But it is to be observed, that this is given, not as a grammatical rule, but as
The Rule is, "Affixed Pronouns belong properly to an occasional exception.
none but active Verbs; and they denote the person of the patient, which those
Verbs express by the accusative case." They are, in fact, precisely in the same predicament, as an accusative case governed by an active verb in Latin. As then the construction is a deviation from the regular rule, Buxtorf, after giving some instances of it, guards it with this caution: "These and similar instances,
Kimchi observes in his Michlol, are to be observed and noted by use; but all verbs, promiscuously, are not to be drawn to this construction. The Hebrew language does h*Aov& frequently use this concise and contracted mode of ex-



pression, where the sense, notwithstanding, remains dear: but great care must be taken lest the style be rendered harsh, or ambiguous, and lest any violence
It must only be resorted to where the language be offered to the meaning.
loses by it nothing of its clearness and elegance."
Here the irregularity is itself limited by a rule; and if the rule be accurate, -- if the affixed pronoun is never used for the regular dative where it would create harshness or ambiguity then, certainly, it cannot be so used in the words of Jephthah; where, if it is,
the ambiguity it occasions is such, that this acute grammarian himself, who first explained this construction, never suspected its existence here.
It is remarkable, also, that among the instances of this construction collected by
Buxtorf and Parkhurst, are none in which it attends verbs of offering or
Such verbs often have the pronoun affixed to denote the thing sacrificing.
offered, but not another example can be found, in which it is used for the Being to whom the offering is made.

The second philological argument urged by Dr. Randolph in favour of his translation, and much insisted on by Parkhurst and A. Clarke, is, the omission of the preposition b before the word for burnt- offering, --  nVlJJ.
" If Jephthah had meant", says Mr. Parkhurst, "as translated, I will offer it for a burntoffering, h, for, ought to have been prefixed to rhty, as in Gen. xxii. 2, 13."
It is extraordinary that the author of a Hebrew Lexicon, who must have been familiar with every word in the Bible, should say that there ought to be a *?
in this place, when there are many similar instances of its absence.
In the writings of Moses, indeed, it seems to be commonly, perhaps always, used; but
Thus (1 Sam. vi. 14,) we read,
seldom in the other books; I believe, never.
that when the ark was sent home by the Philistines, the men of Bethshemesh offered the cows (for) a burnt-offering, --  nbj?, (without the S prefixed,) -- to
Tn the next chapter (ver. 9,) we have, in the marginal reading the Lord.
called the Keri, which is evidently right, the very same construction as in
Jephth ah's vow: the affixed pronoun, --  in, -- is joined to the verb to express the thing offered, and the h is omitted before the noun: "Then Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it (for) a burnt-offering (n^ltf lnbjW) whole to
But in the Lord."
2 Kiugs iii. 27, is a case exactly parallel to this of Jephthah. What Jephthah,
according to the most direct import of his words and the Septuagint rendering of them, is supposed to have promised to do, the king of Moab, when sore pressed by the kings of Israel, Judah, and Edom, is affirmed to have done and in precisely the same words joined in precisely the same construction. Of the king of Moab it is said, "Then took he his eldest son, that should have reigned in his stead, and offered him (for) a burnt- offering upon the Avail."
The words that express, and offered him (for) a burnt-offering, are inb^'l rhvi Jephthah 's are nbll? in\V?J?ni{ the only difference is in the mood,
tense, and person of the verb, and a common variety in the spelling of the noun:
the same affix, -- in, -- is used in both; in both the *? is omitted.

For other examples, see Isa. xl. 16, and Jer. xix. 5.

It must now, I think, be evident, that although Dr. Randolph's interpretation may possibly be correct, its credit must stand entirely upon the strength of his first grammatical argument, the applicability of which to the case is, we have seen, not indisputable: his second, we find, is destitute of any validity what*
soever.

And it is no less evident, that, after all the labours of the learned to fix a sense upon Jephthah's vow which should exclude the idea that a human sa-


crifice was either intended by it or might be its unintended result, nothing
It is still undeniable, that the old common satisfactory has been produced.
translation, or rather the older one of the Septuagint, is that which naturally flows from the words, if taken in their regular construction.
Certain it is, that if Jephthah had spoken English, and had said, "Whosoever cometh out of the doors of my house, &c. -- shall be the Lord's, and I will offer him up for a burntoffering;" and these words had been translated from English into Hebrew; they could not otherwise have been exactly rendered than by the very words which now stand in the Hebrew Bible.

Upon the whole, then, I think, it will be admitted, that the assertion in the
Lecture is fully made out, "that the most unforced inference from the language of the original, and from the history in general, is, that the sacrifice took place."
But as, nevertheless, there are other considerations which render it in the highest degree improbable that such a sacrifice did take place, it seems to be reasonable to conclude, that the letter is so framed as apparently to affirm it,

because, otherwise, the subjects treated of in the spiritual sense, for the sake of which, pre-eminently, the letter is constructed, could not have been so fully represented. How important then does the doctrine of a spiritual sense become, as affording the only key to a satisfactory solution of such difficulties

