
=== No. VIII. - REMARKS ON THE RECENT VOLUME OF BAMPTON LECTURES, BY THE LATE REV. J. J. CONYBEARE, M. A. ; AND ON THE SUPPORT IT AFFORDS TO THE LEADING PRINCIPLE OF THE PRESENT WORK

It has yielded no small encouragement to the Author of the work now offered to the public, to see issue from the press while these Lectures were in it, a volume which, to a considerable extent, espouses and most ably maintains the fame argument; a volume, also, the character and intrinsic merits of which must recommend it to a large and influential body of readers: whilst it can hardly fail to generate, in the minds of many who peruse it, ideas upon the spiritual interpretation of Scripture, which nothing but such a consistent system as the present work endeavours to develope can satisfy and fill. As was to be expected, the amiable and learned author, whose sudden loss to the church of which he was so decided an ornament I sincerely unite with her in lamenting,
does not attempt to free the system of spiritual interpretation from those incumbrances and inconsistencies, with which, as has been noticed in our Lectures above, it has in modern ages been crippled.
But the reason evidently is,
because he had not found in the writers on Scripture-interpretation whom he had examined, any Rule of uniform and universal application. Had such a regular system been presented to him, it appears reasonable to infer, from the affirmative sentiments with which his mind was so strongly imbued on the general question, that he would have accepted it with joy; and therefore, beside the general grounds for regretting his premature removal, I cannot but think that I have a personal one also, and that the present work has lost by the dispensation, not only a well qualified and candid, but, in addition, a favourable judge.

Mr. Conybeare (who was brother to the gentleman from whose valuable writings on Geology an extract or two are taken in our Lecture above*,)
describes his work as "An attempt to trace the history, and to ascertain the limits, of the Secondary and Spiritual Interpretation of Scripture;" and the argument of the whole is precisely the same, though in a form so much more extended, as that of the third Section of our second Lecture. Had not our work been so enlarged as almost to render the single volume to which it is necessarily, by its original plan, confined, a book of inconvenient bulk, I should have deemed it advisable, -- for certainly it would materially promote my own design, -- to examine these Bampton Lectures at a length proportioned to their importance and interest: as it is, I must confine my notice of them to a few
Not to notice them at all would be doing quotations and some brief remarks.
equal injustice to my readers and myself.

The first Lecture, after proposing the design of the work, is chiefly occupied with arguments on the reasonableness and necessity of admitting the Scriptures to contain, in general, a spiritual sense, and against the low principles of Scripture-interpretation which have become general on the continent.

In the following passage the author advances several of the principles which we have endeavoured to establish in this work: "However we may scruple
* P. 314, 315.

IS



(as many in the fair and legitimate exercise of private judgment doubtless will scruple) to follow the more learned and eminent of these [the authors who have enumerated several divisions and varieties of the spiritual sense] to the full extent of their respective theories; yet, that such a secondary and spiritual meaning was, from the earliest period, partially at least, involved in the traditional and written monuments of the Jewish faith, cannot, we hold, be fairly and successfully denied; cannot even be doubted by any one who, with a belief in their inspiration, and an unprejudiced and impartial frame of mind, applies himself to the study of the books of Moses. Nor can this position be reasonably objected to a priori as appearing unnatural or improbable; for in the earlier and simpler stages of society and language, such a mode of giving utterance to the conceptions of mind, so far from seeming rare and unintelligible, is known to have been usually more prevalent and popular.* The original signification of those metaphors, which make up so large a part of all language both spoken and written, must then have been fresher in the memory of man they were daily, if we may so express ourselves, in the proce s of being increased in their number, and extended and modified in their import, as the occurrence.of new ideas or new associations demanded.
The mind habituated to this process would catch and retain, with quite sufficient rapidity and distinctness, the truths and instructions conveyed through the medium of those images and allegories, which in fact do so largely and constantly present themIt may selves in the literature, both sacred and profane, of the ruder ages.f be added, that the wisdom and theology of the Egyptians, to whose customs the Israelites had been so long inured, appear, from the remotest antiquity to which we can trace them, to have been involved in figurative and mystical reThe whole hieroglyphical system must have been little else presentations.
than a tissue of metaphor and allegory addressed to the eye instead of the ear. % These considerations might well lead us to suspect, that even they whom we regard as having needlessly and fancifully assumed or exaggerated the mystical sense of many parts of the Mosaic record, are at least not more itnphilosophical than they who utterly proscribe every interpretation of the kind,
however sanctioned by the authority of the New Testament, or countenanced by fair and reasonable analogies."§

The length of time during which this doctrine was that of the Christian
Church universal, is brought down by Mr. C. later than by me; for he says,
" The truth and reasonableness of this view of the Mosaic records has been acknowledged, until within the last half century, by the whole, or nearly the whole, of the Christian Church."||

He quotes and adopts, with unreserved commendation, a sentiment of "the learned Spencer", in which "he acknowledges unhesitatingly the distinction between the « Scriptura exterior cujus sensus minime difficilis se cuivis ofiert,'
and the ' Scriptura interior legis mirabilia continens, quae ut planius et apertius intucatur psalmista oculos retectos expetit."fl

I might add some powe»ful reasoning of our author in confirmation of his assertion, that "we not only find that our Lord and his followers themselves affix a secondary and more exalted sense to many passages of the Old Testa-

* See our Lect. III. p. 95, &c. and p. 10G, &c.
t See our Lect. VI. p. 317, &c. and p. 320, etc.
% See our Lect. III. p. 120, <fce.
n P. 19. See our Lecture II. p. 50.

% P. 20. See our Lect. H. p. 40.

§ P. 13 to 16.

ment, but that they argue as though such a principle of interpretation were acknowledged as legitimate*:" but I will only take further, from the first Lecture, some remarks which are exactly coincident with some of my own,
respecting those Christian teachers who would reject the spiritual sense of the
" We may grant", says Mr. C, "somewhat to the inScriptures altogether.
fluence of outward circumstances, somewhat more perhaps to the alleged, and,
we hope, sincere desire of conciliating the open adversaries of our faith f; a conciliation however seldom effected, and certainly not worth the purchasing,
by the surrender of nearly all that distinguishes the Gospel from the mere philosophical creed of the deist J; but where we are told, in a voice purporting to be that of all the reasonable divines of protestant Europe, that every type,
every prophecy, every adumbration of the Messiah's work and kingdom, to which we have been accustomed to look for the confirming our faith and the invigorating our devotion, is to be at once and entirely discarded, as matter of nothing better than Jewish superstition; where we see this rejection of all spiritual interpretation coupled with an undisguised anxiety to divest even the historical relations of Scripture of every thing exceeding human powers and attainments§, we are assuredly tempted for the moment to inquire, Can these men be Christians?"||

He afterwards shews that it is an unfounded error to suppose, as some would have us, that the spiritual interpretation of the Scriptures, introduced into
Christianity from its foundation, originated with, or even prevailed among, the
Pharisees, or that it was borrowed from them or the other Jews.

The design of the six next Lectures is to evince, that the principles which thus appear evidently proposed to us upon the face of the Scriptures themselves, have accordingly been assumed and acted upon by the whole body of interpreters of Scripture till within a very recent period; in reference to which fact he observes, "It is both useful and gratifying to find, that those opinions which we believe to be grounded on the firm warranty of Scripture and of reason, have received the support of the wise and the pious in former ages."fl
Here then they who may wish to see a more detailed and complete examination of this important point than could be afforded by the brief and popular view given in our second Lecture**, will find ample satisfaction: but the two accounts differ in nothing but their length and form; in their tenor and conclusions they exactly coincide.

Having in his second Lecture remarked upon the traces of this mode of interpretation which are found in the Apocryphal books of the Old Testament,
and upon the manner in which it was cultivated by the Judaic school of philosophy at Alexandria, and especially by the celebrated Philo; Mr. C. commences his third Lecture with these important remarks: "In the two former
Lectures it was endeavoured to shew, that there were reasonable grounds for attaching a secondary and spiritual sense to much of the Law and the Prophets; and that such was, as far as we have the opportunity of ascertaining matters of this nature, the opinion, if not cf the whole Jewish church, yet certainly of many among its most learned and pious members.
That the practice of such interpretation was carried by some to an unwarrantable ex-

* P. 24.
t Sec our Lect. I. p. 6, S c.

See onr Lcct. II. 41, <fec. and p. 44, &c.

Lect. II. p. 26 and 32.

t See our Lect. I. p. 8.
H P. II.

§ See our Lect. I. p. 6.

|| P. 30, 31.

** Sec. iii. § 4. p. 50, &c



cess*, affords no proof that it was not originally founded upon just conceptions of the character of the older revelation, or that it is repugnant to the wise and benevolent intentions of Him by whom all Scripture was given, and to whom were known all his works from the beginning. The course of our inquiry has now brought us to that period, at which the preaching of a new and more perfect dispensation was committed by its divine Author to the apostles and ministers of his choice: committed with the express assurance, and confirmed and sanctioned by the conscious and sensible presence of his informing Spirit.
If we believe them to have spoken and written under the guidance of that Spirit,
to have been led (as it was promised) into all truth; if we hold upon any theory the proper inspiration of that which they delivered; I do not see with what consistency we can refuse (as some would do) to acquiesce in their interThat to these Scriptures pretation of the Scriptures of the Old Testament.
they do affix a secondary and spiritual meaning, and that they refer to them with this view, not merely in a few partial and dubious instances, but repeatedly, and with a distinctness only to be questioned by the most determined
If indeed with one school we are to deny the prejudice, seems equally clear, f existence of all types and prefigurations of the Messiah and his kingdom, and to contend that where the Law is said to have had a shadow of the good things to come, no more is meant than that in comparison with the gospel it was as valueless as a shadow when compared to a substance; we would answer, that such a theory claims for plain and specific language a much greater laxity and licence of interpretation than any which it objects to.
If with othersb we attempt to resolve the whole into one system of accommodation, we certainly do not a little shake the credibility of those witnesses who could rest so much upon so sandy a foundation. But the writers of the New Testament in no place appear either to confess or to suspect that the secondary or allegorical sense,
which they attach to the Law and the Prophets, are (is) thus arbitrary and
That we are content to regard some few instances of obscure appliunreal.
cation as thus accommodated, (and the lists usually given of such accommodations might indeed be much reduced,) does not, any more than the exceptions in various other cases, invalidate the general rule."

On this subject the author introduces this highly judicious remark; "And here I would venture even to submit, whether, as we consent, both from their own internal evidence and from the acknowledged inspiration of those who adduce them, to receive the great bulk of the Scriptural quotations so adduced,
in the New Testament as truly and originally typical and prophetical, it may not be the part of Christian humility and sober criticism rather to suspend the judgment as to those few which present real difficulties, than to attempt the accounting for or reconciling them by any hypothesis of accommodation, or partial and individual application; by conceding that they are no more than ornaments of diction or at best argumenta ad hominem."^
The most difficult of the supposed accommodations are a quotation or two in Matthew's Gospel but from these all difficulty would vanish, if we understood the spiritual sense of both the records.

* See our Lect. II. p. 54 and 57; Lect. III. p. 72, 73.
t See our Lect II. p. 44, &c. and Appendix, No. I.
a "This is the hypothesis of Sykes in his answer to Collins."
b "This hypothesis the theologians of modern Germany have derived chiefly from tho school of Lc Clerc"

$ P. 75 to 80.


The preceding remarks relate to the Old Testament; but our author equally
" It cannot", he contends for the spiritual sense of part, at least, of the New.
observes, "be denied or questioned, that even in the records of the new covenant, the things which concern the renewal of the inner man, and the salvation of the believer, are in more than one case shadowed out to us under types and analogies, which, if we accept the testimony of those records, we are not only authorized but bound to understand and to apply spiritually. To pass over much of that part of our Lord's teaching which was confessedly in parables; if we allow that there be any spiritual grace connected with the right usage and reception of the Christian sacraments, we must admit their outward elements to be the certain and pre-ordained symbols of that grace,
and of the means whereby it is conveyed to us: we must (be it spoken with reverence and faith) admit the material body and blood of our glorious Redeemer himself to be typical of that spiritual food whereby the inward life of the believer's soul, that life which, as we are expressly told, is hidden with
Christ in God, is produced and supported.* When the apostle urges, (in which our church has well and wisely followed him,) that as our Saviour died and rose again for us, so should we who are buried with him in baptism die unto sin and rise again unto righteousness; when he expressly exhorts the believers as those who are risen with Christ; we cannot deny that he sees in the history of thus much at least of his Master's life a spiritual as well as a literal import.
The luxuriance of human ingenuity may indeed, as it often has done, push its imitation of these mysterious analogies much too far; the pride of scepticism may refuse to be taught at all after this manner, and its votary may question the inspiration of those Scriptures which would thus teach him: but neither the abuses of the one nor the perverseness of the other, can invalidate the truth of the general position, that the New Testament does not only assert the secondary and spiritual meaning of much that is contained in the Old, but authorizes and strengthens the legitimacy of such interpretation by affixing the like to portions also of its own contents."!

These extracts are quite sufficient to shew, how decided is the support which
Mr. C.'s work lends to the doctrine of the spiritual interpretation of Scripture.
If it is thus certain, that "portions", at least, of the productions of Inspiration is equally certain that they possess it unipossess a spiritual sense, it
One versally as has, I apprehend, been fully proved in our Lectures above.J
It is most true, as our position being granted, the other follows of course.
author remarks, that if "the practice of such interpretation was carried by some to an unwarrantable excess, this affords no proof that it was not originally founded upon just conceptions of the character of revelation, or that it is repugnant to the intentions of Him by whom all Scripture was given:" but in what
Not in applying it universally, but without a just knowconsists this excess?
ledge of its nature: not in drawing from every part of Scripture a spiritual sense, but in deducing from it, under the name of the spiritual sense, notions of mere human invention; or rather, in inventing such notions and endeavouring
It is thus that "luxuriance of human into force them into the Scriptures.
genuity may indeed, as it often has done, push its imitation of these mysterious analogies much too far;" being ignorant of the real analogies, it substitutes for them some of its own: but this no more proves that the abused passages ha

* See our Lect. V. p. 300, 301.

t P- 82, 83.

X See our Lect. IV. p. 139, 140, 16-5.

Lect. Y. p. 222 to 225.


no spiritual analogies properly belonging to them, than the personation of the
Earl of Warwick, Edward Plantagenet, by Lambert Simnel, proved that no such Earl of Warwick existed.
Hence no negative conclusion can be drawn against the affirmative principle thus established, from the circumstance, that when Mr. C, after having in the six intermediate Lectures traced the history of spiritual interpretation, and shewn that it was, for many ages, universally admitted to be of universal application, and never entirely denied till within a very recent period, comes, in his last Lecture, to attempt to ascertain its limits,
he exhibits some doubt and vacillation; for doubt and vacillation must, as has been shewn in our Lecture above*, ever attend on the expositor, who, while be admits the principle at all, is deterred from accepting it as universal, by the extravagances into which some have run, who have been guided, in their endeavours to decipher it, by no more certain clew than fancy or conjecture.
This is evidently the origin of Mr. C.'s attempted limitations; and thus, instead of proving the non-universality of the spiritual sense, they only prove the want and necessity of such a universal rule for its development as we have
Many of the expositions which he deendeavoured to present in this work.
tails, as samples of the spiritual mode of interpretation as practised in different ages, are c rtainly sufficiently capricious and unfounded: and though he gives some which he acknowledges to be striking and beautiful, and to only because the letter is plain and intelothers which he objects ligible without them: (a the admissicn respecting the plain and intelligible history of the death and resurrection of Jesus, that "thus much at least of his life had a spiritual as well as a literal import;") yet it seems as if the wading through so immense a chaos of contradiction and confusion as he was compelled to examine to obtain the materials for this learned part of his work, had had rather an unfavourable effect upon his judgment, and had scare dy left it proof against the
His mind was evidently in a state here of effects of unavoidable disgust.
The doctrine of a spiritual sense, so long as it is supposed, if great indecision.
it exists at all, to be the consequence of arbitrary appointment, is attended with difficultyt; but when it is seen, as we have endeavoured to evince is the fact, to be the result of an immutable law of nature, and absolutely essential to,
and inseparable from, the truly divine style of writing^ ; all difficulty disapThen its universal becomes far more defensible then its partial existpears.
Not even "the pride of scepticism "can then allege a plausible arguence.
ment against it, or for "refusing to be taught after this manner;" and the votaiy of scepticism, instead of drawing from it a plea for "questioning the inspiration of the Scriptures which would thus teach him", may find in it a
I cannot, then, but believe, that had nrcof demonstrative of their divinity.§

strange objection, by the by, to follow

See particularly the Note, p. 225 to 228.

t See our Lecture IV. p. 127 to 134.

* Ibid.
t See our Lect. II. p. 62.
§ Mr. C. frequently cites the judicious canon of the early fathers, "Argumentum mysticum non valet ad probanda fldei dogmata", which affirms the same principle as we have urged in our second Lecture, p. 64, 65: but he surely extends it too far, when he seems to infer, that no argument can be drawn from the spiritual sense in proof of the inTo prove by the spiritual sense a specific doctrine, is quite a spiration of the Scriptures.
fifferent thing from proving, from the literal sense, and from rational and scientific considerations, that there must be a spiritual sense within, and that, if so, objections drawn
Mr. C makes his remark, (p. 316, note n,) in from the letter not understood are invalid.
reference to a work, dedicated to the Sceptic, entitled "An Analytical View of Christianity:"
this view of the subject been presented to Mr. C, he would have accepted it with eagerness: for he certainly rather considered it impracticable, upon any principles with which his researches had brought him acquainted, to discover the true spiritual sense of the Scriptures, except where it is pointed out by the
I would fain examine apostles, than actually denied its universal existence.
several of his positions, but my limits forbid.
While he viewed the subject as being as yet enveloped in much obscurity, he evidently anticipated that the darkness would not be suffered to endure for ever.* He decidedly admits the
Word of God to be still in a great measure a sealed book: but he doubtless believed the prophecies which announce that this darkness shall have an end;
that the time will come in which he who is the Word will open more of the contents of the written Word to his church; in which it shall be said, "The
Lion of the tribe of Judah hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof."

Altogether, the appearance of such a work at the present juncture, from such
I have touched in these Lectures, and a quarter, is not a little extraordinary.
Mr. C. also dwells in his, upon the prevalence, in the present day, not only of absolute infidelity, but of low and unworthy ideas of the Scriptures among those who still profess to accept them as the sources of true religion; ideas which not only reign almost universally on the continent, but have spread their contagion in this country to a greater extent than Mr. C. might deem it prudent to
The influence of such sentiments is evidently rapidly increasing.
notice.
According to appearance, the bulk of the Christian public is fast verging into such notions of the Divine Word, as differ from open infidelity in little but in
In such a state of things, are we to regard Mr. C.'s publication as a name.
warning voice, raised, but raised in vain, to check the spreading desolation?
as the last remonstrance, in the Anglican Church, of expiring Truth? as a monitory beacon, to gleam but for a moment, "ere universal darkness bury all?" Or may we hail it as the real harbinger of returning day? as the symptom of a new order of intelligence arising in the Christian mind of this country?
as indicative of a state of preparation commencing among the British Christians for the reception of just views of the Word of God, -- for the diffusion among them of the genuine light of that Word? Faxit Deus!

How far that work may seem to provoke such an observation I cannot say, having never seen it.

* "All", he observes, (p. 2, 3,) "who profess to accept and to search the Scriptures as the record and testimony of God, (without the exception even of those whom we regard,
not perhaps unjustly, as leaning to the side of error and enthusiasm,) do not uniformly admit that a partial, though not always an impenetrable cloud, yet rests upon the sanctuary of divine truth."

THE END

London:
Stereotyped and Printed by J. S. Hodson,
Portugal-Street, Lincoln's Inn.


Deacidified using the Bookkeeper process
Neutralizing agent: Magnesium Oxide
Treatment Date: May 2005

PreservationTechnologies
A WORLD LEADER IN PAPER PRESERVATIOI
1 1 1 Thomson Park Drive
Cranberry Township, PA 16066
(724)779-2111
