
=== No. IV. - THE SIGNIFICATION OF THE CLOUDS, WHEN MENTIONED IN SCRIPTURE, FURTHER ILLUSTRATED

The explanations of Scripture terms which are offered in this Work, heing new to most of our readers, would require, to do them justice, a more extended elucidation and defence than our limits will permit: However, if only one explanation, clearly drawn from a fixed analogy, is firmly established, it is sufficient to evince the solidity of the principle as a Rule of interpretation. We have dwelt at some length, in the Lecture above, on the signification of clouds,
and have shewn, it is hoped, with some weight of evidence, that, when mentioned in reference to the Lord, they signify the Divine Truth clothed with natural ideas and images, or the Word in its literal sense, which is the Divine
Truth so clothed: and as this explanation, though, when first propounded, it may appear unexpected and forced, seems to become, on reflection, perfectly natural and easy, and to be capable of being established with a certainty which nothing but the extreme of scepticism can dispute; we will here dwell upon it a little further, and try what degree of light may be drawn, by its aid, from several obscure and obviously enigmatical passages of the Holy Word. We have selected this term for a detailed examination, not only because it is well calculated to illustrate what we have called the Science of Analogies, and to prove that in that Science must be sought the key for the true interpretation of the Scriptures, but because it is also eminently adapted to throw light upon the nature of the Scriptures themselves, -- to evince that they consist of a glory and its covering, and to demonstrate that their literal sense Is actually a cloud which veils over the supernal light that beams within.

I hope, however, that whoever reads this artcle, will first read the part of the Lecture to which it is appended (; from p. 193).

I. It has been remarked above, that the signification of clouds, as being the
Divine Truth veiled over with the appearances of nature, or the Word m its literal sense, may, when first announced, appear arbitrary and forced: yet if it thus appears to any one, it must be for want of his having noticed, that this is one of the analogies of which every one knows something-by common perception, and from which phrases are frequently borrowed in common discourse.
I hope, for instance, that what I am now writing will not be deemed a cloudy composition; for I well know how common it is with writers to cloud a clear
There are many things respectsubject by imperfect attempts at explanation.
ing which the truth discovers itself to the mind by its own inherent light, and which efforts to illustrate. only envelope in clouds.
Such phrases as these, of which even' one immediately sees the meaning, and which ever}* one readily frames for himself, evince that the human mind intuitively perceives, not only the analogy between light and Truth in its clearness, but also that between clouds and Truth in the shade.
It is only then in compliance with a principle which nature dictates to us all, that clouds are mentioned in Scripture as the chariot of God: for God, all acknowledge, must dwell in his own Divine
Truth, and of Divine Truth, when shaded over with natural images and expressions borrowed from human ideas, as in the literal sense of the Divine
Word, clouds are evidently the proper symbol.



II. It being certain then that reason gives a decided testimony in favour of the use of the term clouds as an appropriate emblem of the Word of God in its literal sense, we proceed to consider further, how this is corroborated by the instances in which the expression is used in the Scriptures in connection with the Lord.

1. We have cited in the Lecture this passage of Moses: "There is none like unto the God of Jeshurun, who rideth upon the heaven in thy help, and in hi3
excellency in the sky*;" where we have noted, that the word translated sky \b one which in many other places is rendered the clouds.
Jeshurun is a name for
Israel, which typically means the church, or the true member of the church and how is it that, in help of the member of the church, God rides in heaven,
and in his excellency (greatness or strength) in the clouds? how, unless these phrases mean, that he imparts to man instruction, consolation, and support, by the internal graces of his Word and kingdom, signified by heaven, communicated by means of the external or literal sense of his Word, signified by the clouds? The reason of this is, because it is a fact, though not always reflected on and acknowledged, that whatever man receives to build him up as a member of the Lord's church, he receives, either immediately or remotely, by the medium of the Holy Word: it is hence that he obtains all his knowledge respecting the Lord and his kingdom, either drawing it thence himself or receiving it from others who have drawn it from that source: it is by the truths thus acquired that he directs his path: it is the promises which he hence learns that support him and enable him to resist his spiritual foes: and it is even by what he thus imbibes that the graces of charity, as well as those
For the Holy Word, though a system of of faith, are infused into his bosom.
Every truth which it contains
Divine Truth, is not a system of truth alone.
has some heavenly affection that properly belongs to it. When the truth is admitted into the understanding merely, still the affection is present and urgent to be received with it: so that although man is not conscious of it, it really is by the Holy Word, and not at all independently of it, that every heavenly
The Word of grace of which he ever becomes a partaker enters his breast.
God, both as to its internal spirit and life and external form and letter, is the grand medium by which the Lord imparts aid to his spiritual Jeshurun, his true church; it is thus that he rideth upon the heaven to his help, and in his
If we suppose the visible heaven and vapoury excellency on the clouds.
clouds to be meant, what becomes of the sense of the passage?

2. In the eighteenth Psalm we have a sublime description of the deliverance of the church, or of the member of the church, in the person of David,
from a state of severe temptation; and in the description of the interference of the Divine Being on the occasion occur these words: "He bowed the heavens also, and came down, and darkness was under his feet. And he rode upon a cherub and did fly; yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind. He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies: at the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed: hail-stones and coals of fire."f To bow the heavens and come down, is a phrase expressive of the Lord's presence, with the interior things of his Divine Truth or Word, signified by the heavens, in its exteriors, to which
The darkness under his feet is the Divine Truth in its the former come doion.
lowest form, where the light of its eternal contents terminates in the cloud of

* Dcut xxiiii. 26.

t Vcr. 9 to 12.



the letter: this appears as darkness to those who are in a state of opposition,
and who can discern nothing of the light which shines through the letter from the pure truth within: -- witness the reproaches cast upon the Word by Deists and Atheists, who would fain persuade the world that it is the most senseless and even pernicious book that ever was produced. A cherub is used in Scripture as a personification of the Word in its letter: but to go into the proof of this would lead us too far from our immediate object. "He maketh darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and. thick clouds of the skies", --  it is said in amplification of the same subject, and still relates to the investing of Divine Truth, in its ultimate form, with a clothing of appearances,
within which, nevertheless, abides the Divine Presence. And when it is added,
" At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed; hail-stones and coals of fire", the allusion is, to the dispersion of the false notions which are often drawn from the literal sense of the Word not understood, by the manifestation of the Divine Truth contained within, which is called the bright*
ness that was before him: hail-stones, being frozen drops of rain, which descend indeed from the clouds, but in a form which gives them a destructive instead of a fertilizing nature, are appropriate symbols of truths from the letter of the
Holy Word falsified by perverse interpretations; and coals of fire are suitable emblems of the lusts or concupiscences of the natural man, especially of his lust of perverting and misrepresenting the Word by regarding it under the inThese are spoken of as sent forth by the Lord fluence of his evil inclinations.
as is also the case when similar judgments are described in the account of the plagues of Egypt: yet we are certain that he cannot be the author of the perversions of his Word by mankind: the meaning then is, not that such things actually proceed from him and his Word, but that their existence is discovered at his presence and at that of his Divine Truth; and that when judgment is executed upon the wicked, they are left to their own false and evil imaginations, and to the misery which attends such a state.

It may here be necessary to meet a difficulty which some minds may feel at this representation of tne Divine Truth, which we affirm to be the same as the Word, as enveloping the Divine Majesty.

Whilst we think of the Word merely as a book, there certainly is some difficulty in conceiving how it can form "a pavilion "for the residence of the
It is easily seen by most persons, as soon as mentioned,
Majesty of heaven.
that the most essential attributes of the Divine Nature are Love and Wisdom,
It is also readily apprehended, that every grace which
Goodness and Truth.
can adorn the mind of man has reference to Love and Wisdom, Goodness and
Truth, under some form or combination or other. Now it is allowed on all hands, that man can receive nothing, -- nothing of a heavenly nature, --  except it be given him from above: according to the Lord's own words, "Without
Yet it is also acknowledged by all, that God is inme, ye can do nothing."*
finitely higher than man, or than the highest finite intelligence: how then can the heavenly graces of which he alone is the Author, be imparted from God to beings so much below him? how, but, correspondingly, as heat and light, the proper symbols of love and wisdom, are conveyed to the earth from the Sun of Nature, the best though faint image of the Sun of Righteousness? that is,
by a continual emanation of love and wisdom, goodness and truth, flowing
By such from the Lord, as heat and light continually emanate from the sun.

* John xv. 5.

an emanation then, doubtless, they are communicated: and all tbat thus proceeds from the Lord, whether it be regarded as reduced to writing or not, is called in Scripture the Word of God, and is represented by the light, terminating at length in the clouds, with which, in the passage of the Psalms examined in the Lecture, Jehovah is said to clothe himself as with a garment.
Of course, it is not the written Word of which it is said, "By the Word of the
Lord were the heavens made and all the host of them by the breath (or spirit)
of his mouth* ;" and "All things were made by him (or it)."f Now this sphere of Divine Truth (, as we will continue to term it,) emanating from the
Lord, when it comes within the confines of the world of nature, clothes itself,
as is attempted to be shewn in the Lecture above J, with such ideas and images as we find in the literal sense of the written Word: nevertheless, it may easily be conceived of separately from the writings in which we possess it it may be regarded as a chain of ideas occupying the minds of a certain class of intelligent beings; or even as a sphere of perceptions, independently of any minds supposed to perceive them, surrounding the Godhead, but far beneath
But it is perfectly evident, that a chain or the seat of his immediate presence.
sphere of ideas of this kind might be reduced to writing without at all changing its nature: accordingly, this has been done in the written Word,
which comprehends the sphere of Divine Truth, or the ideas with which it invests itself, when it comes within the precincts of nature, reduced, further, into natural language; and the written Word thus presents, in its literal sense, the very Divine Truth rendered obvious to our senses under its lowest form or manifestation.

Now although it may at first be difficult to conceive how the literal sense of the Word of God, as contained in a book, can afford, as stated in the passage we have just been considering, a pavilion for the Most High; it is easy enough to apprehend how a sphere or emanation of Divine Truth, clothed with natural ideas, may be regarded under the image of such a pavilion: and yet we see also, that such a sphere of Divine Truth clothed with natural ideas might easily be reduced into writing; that is, a book or writing might be framed which should convey the same ideas to the mind of its reader.
Thus it is perfectly evident, that all that is true of an emanation of Divine Truth clothed with ideas taken from the world of nature and from human perceptions, is equally true of the written Word in its literal sense: of this also, it may be said, in reference to its Author, that "his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies." Considered as a mere collection of words and letters, the Holy Word, as existing in a book, would indeed be nothing;
but considered as to the ideas which those words in their literal sense convey to the mind of an intelligent being, the written Word is the same as the Divine
Truth emanating from the Lord, and forming a sphere around him, when brought down to the apprehension of man regarded only as an inhabitant of the world of nature: and thus both the one and the other, -- both the written
Word in its letter and the sphere of Divine Truth in its extreme circumference,
 -- are considered in Scripture as the clouds of heaven, -- as the basis in which the pure Divine Truth terminates, and as the covering which shields from unprepared minds its otherwise too dazzling glories.

3. We will proceed to try the application of this interpretation of "the clouds "to another remarkable passage of the Psalms, which reads, "Ascribe

* Ps. xxxiii. 6.

t ^o\\a I 3.

% P. 129.



ye strength unto God; his excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the
Here, as every where else where clouds are mentioned in connexion c?owc?s."*
with the Lord, the merely literal sense affords no intelligible meaning at all for what sense would there be in saying that the strength of the Lord is in the clouds, if by the clouds were meant the mere unstable vapours that float over
But understood in the spiritual signification of the term, as we our heads.
have explained it, the meaning is most beautiful, and the symbol chosen to express it most appropriate.
For it is in the lowest or most ultimate form of
Divine Truth, which is what is meant by the clouds, that its strength principally resides; provided, that is, it be not separated from its interior contents for. then it becomes like a body without a soul, which is a powerless carcase.
It is known to all, that man's body is the covering of his soul, and that, though his soul is capable of existing without the body, it quits with the body all power of acting upon the solid substances of this world of nature: and so the
Divine Truth, as seen in heavenly light, would be without the power of affecting the minds of men in this world of nature, were it not invested with its literal sense for that purpose: but in this it is clothed with all its fulness an' 1
Something similar obtains in human compositions and diswith all its power.
courses. Every attentive observer of such subjects must have noticed, that the more the ideas which a speaker wishes to convey are clothed with natural images, provided the intended meaning is distinctly seen, the more strong do the language, and the sentiment too, appear. An orator who should address even a polished assembly in a chain of subtle reasoning, presenting none but abstract ideas expressed in the artificial language of philosophers, would make but little impression; but he who should appeal to their natural feelings, in ideas taken from their common sentiments, and conveyed in language drawn from sensible images, would be esteemed a speaker of far greater power.
In the same manner, the Word in its letter is always felt to possess great strength and power, if there be a perception at the same time of its genuine meaning;
and the same truths conveyed in abstract terms are relatively unimpressive.
Thus if we hear this sentiment, "The Lord at some period will reveal himself to the church by the discovery of the spiritual sense contained within the letter of his Word:" the sense intended is very clear, but it does not affect the mind with any strength: but if the sentiment be expressed in the language of the letter of the Word, "Then shall they see the Son. of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory;" and it be at the same time seen that such is the real sense of these word; they will then be attended by a perception of power as well as clearness; --  this portion of "the clouds "will be felt to possess

Admitting then this interpretation of the symbol, as being expressive of the
Word in its literal sense, it perhaps will be seen with what accurate propriety it is said of Jehovah, that "his strength is in the clouds."

4. There is, moreover, one passage of the Psalms, in which this interpretaAddressing the Lord, it is tion of the clouds is given almost in express terms.
said, "Thy mercy is great above the heavens, and thy truth reacheth unto the
Is not this a plain affirmation, that the clouds are used for the clouds." f lowest plane or basis in which the Divine Truth proceeding from the Lord terminates and closes? and this, certainly, is in the literal sense of the written
Word.

* Ps. lxviii. 34.

f Ps. cviii. 4.



5. This view of the subject will also enable us to see the reason why, on various most important occasions, divine revelations, or enunciations of most important divine truths, are said to have been made from clouds.
The ten commandments were thus delivered at Mount Sinai.

For that purpose "the Lord said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud*:" and accordingly "it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders, and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud."'t How beautiful and expressive was this, if a cloud is the symbol of the "Word in its letter, from and by which it is that God communicates his will to man

The same remark may be applied to this parallel example. When Moses was afterwards called up into the mount to receive the tables on which the law was written, and to have further revelations communicated to him, the same symbol was repeated; "And Moses went up into the mount; and a cloud covered the mount: and the glory of the Lord abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it, six days: and the seventh day he called to Moses out oj the midst of the cloud?%

So, because it is by the Word in its letter that all divine instruction is imparted to man, it was customary for a cloud to appear over the mercy-seat:
thus the Lord says to Moses, "Speak unto Aaron thy brother that he come not at all times into the holy place within the veil before the mercy-seat, that he die not: for I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy-seat."§ And it was from over the mercy-seat, thus out of this cloud, that the Lord, after the tabernacle was erected, held his usual discourses with Moses: "Thou shalt put the mercyseat above the ark, and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee: and there I will meet thee, and will commune with thee from above the mercy- seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel." || How well the signification- of the ark accords with that of the cloud which commonly hovered over it, may appear from what is said on the former subject in the fifth Lecture. We have noticed above, that the cherubs also were personified emblems of the Divine Word in its letter.

When, likewise, Moses had removed his tent or tabernacle out of the camp,
on account of the idolatry of the Israelites in the affair of the golden calf, "it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended,
and stood at the door of the tabernacle; and the Lord", say our translators,
" talked with Moses^[ :" but as the Lord is not mentioned in the original, it is actually affirmed that the cloudy pillar talked with Moses.

A cloud being the emblem of the Word in the letter; and it being by the
Word, in which the Lord himself has an abode, that the Christian is guided in his spiritual journey; how beautifully and aptly was this represented in the journey of the Israelites through the wilderness; when "the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud to lead them the way!"** As in his darkest states the Christian is still under the Divine Protection, and is led by the Divine Love when his perceptions of truth are most obscure: this was represented by the pillar of fire which guided the Israelites by night.

We find the same symbol employed, to teach the same lesson, upon a most weighty occasion, in the Gospel. When Jesus was transfigured before the threo

* Ex. xix. 9.

f Ver. 16.

U Ex. xxv. 21, 22.

% Ex. xxv. 15, 1G.

§ Lev. xvi. 2.

% Ch. xxxiii. 9.

17* ** Cli. xiii. 21, &c.


disciples, "behold a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased:
hear ye him." *

As, however, many of the images nsed in the Word, retaining their most general signification, often take two opposite specific ones; so are clouds sometimes used as emblems of darkness and ignorance; of a state in which no light is seen from the letter of the Word, but false persuasions, adopted as true, exclude the light of heaven; as when the prophets speak of "a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness."f

Surely, on thus beholding how constantly the passages in which clouds are mentioned in connexion with the Lord, yield a lucid and instructive sense,
when they are regarded as symbols of Divine Truth in its shade, or when it is veiled over by a covering of appearances, or, specifically, of the Word in its letter: it must be difficult to doubt that this is the true interpretation of the
This signification is grounded, we have seen, in a clear and just image.
analogy: and when we find that on its application to the clouds of the literal sense they in so many instances lose their obscurity, and become bright clouds translucent with the light of heaven; we surely have reason, not only to accept this as the true interpretation, but to admit also, that the principle on which it is founded affords the true key for decyphering the symbolic language of Holy Writ.
Such perpetual coincidences could never originate in chance.

