
=== No. III. - THE GREAT OBJECTS AND PHENOMENA OF THE MUNDANE SYSTEM CONSIDERED, AS THEY ARE REFERRED TO IN THE LANGUAGE OF PROPHECY AND OF THE SCRIPTURES IN GENERAL

The significations of Analogy offered in the Lecture, of the great objects of what Sir Isaac Newton calls "the world natural;" -- of heaven, earth, and earthquakes; of the sun, moon, and stars; and of the darkening of the sun,
turning of the moon into blood, and falling of the stars; must, it is presumed,
Not much argument then will be rebe readily perceived to be well founded.
It may, however, be useful to add a few remarks quired to establish them.
upon them, and to shew, by some examples, that such is actually the meaning borne by these magnificent symbols in the language of prophecy, and of the
Holy Word in general.

I. When the earth or world, in a most general sense, including the whole
"world natural", is mentioned in Scripture for the church universal, --  the church considered in the most general manner; it is only by a modification of a mode of expression frequent in common discourse. We constantly speak of various countries, not with any allusion to the mere soil, but as a metonymy for the nations that inhabit them, -- for the government and people.
It is in this sense that we speak of the distress or prosperity of our own country; of the policy of France, Austria, or Russia; of the general aspect of the continent;
Just so it is when and of the growing power of America, or of the new vjorld.
particular countries, ox when the earth in general, are mentioned in the Word of God: the continent is put for the contents; the land for the inhabitants.
This then seems to support Sir Isaac Newton's application of "the world natural "to "the world politic" But we are to remember, that, in the Word of God, he who uses the figure is the Divine Being himself; and in what respect can the inhabitants of the earth be supposed to be regarded by the Divine
Mind, but as to their reception or otherwise of the principles which constitute
It is not, we may be certain, as to their political, but as to their the church?
spiritual relations, that the inhabitants of the world are regarded by God.
They are considered as belonging either to the church properly so called, consisting of that portion of the inhabitants of the earth who stand in a nearer relation to the Author of their existence, in consequence of possessing a knowledge of him by revelation; --  or to the church universal, which includes the whole of mankind considered in their relation to God. As then, when the earth is mentioned in Scripture, the inhabitants of it are meant; and as the inhabitants are only regarded in their relation to God, that is, as connected with his church; it is perfectly agreeable to the use of a well-known figure of speech,
to name the earth to signify the church.

It is also well known, that when the earth is mentioned, it is frequently only the land of Canaan that is referred to; and this is an acknowledged symbol of the church: and the meaning is similar, but more universal, when the earth is named for the whole "world natural."

Now that this use of the term is frequent with the prophets, might be shewn
Thus, in that beautiful prediction so evidently refer-

by numerous examples.



ring to a future glorious state of the church, when it is declared that "the wolf shall dwell with the lamb", and when it is said of the various noxious animals, "they shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain;" the reason assigned for it is this; "For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of
So in that awful denunciation of the Lord, as the waters cover the sea."*
judgments upon the earth, in the twenty-fourth chapter of the same prophet,
where the word earth or land is repeated almost in every verse; although some of the calamities enumerated might seem to relate to the earth, literally,
yet there is much which shews that the subject really treated of is the church.
To what else can the words be applied: "The windows from on high are open,
and the foundations of the earth do shake: the earth is utterly broken down;
the earth is clean dissolved; the earth is moved exceedingly: the earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard and shall be removed like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it; and it shall fall and not rise againV'\ The last clause, in particular, is by no means predicable of the earth; but the whole is most accurately descriptive, in the language of
Analogy, of the utter destruction of the Jewish church; and to this alone, and to the substitution of pure Christianity for corrupt Judaism, can be applied what is said of the sun and moon at the conclusion of the prophecv: "Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when the Lord of Hosts shall reign in Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously."!

II. Without then extending our quotations, it must, wa may presume be readily seen, that the earth, when mentioned generally, is used as a symbJ of
But heaven is spoken of in the Scriptures as frequently as the the church.
earth; and it often happens, that heaven and earth are mentioned together and then it may be seen with equal clearness, that by heaven is meant the internal of the church, or, with respect to individuals, the internal man, and by earth the external of the church, or the external man.
Two states of the church, -- the church militant and the church triumphant,
are usually recognised by divines; all who are members of the church on earth constituting the former, and all who are enjoying the reward of victory in heaven, constituting the latter: thus the church militant is that which is usually called simply the church, and the church triumphant is but another name for heaven. Now it is certainly a very remarkable circumstance, that in so many languages the name for the state and habitation of the blest is the same as that for the visible heavens or shy: or rather, the name properly belonging to the latter is transferred to mean the former.
In the English language indeed, which has two words that signify the expanse above or around the earth, we now more frequently apply the term heaven to the seats of the blest, and the term shy to the visible firmament; though we still frequently use the former word in its primitive signification

As from the face of heaven the scattered clouds

Tumultuous rove",

and we are apt to transfer the latter to the figurative sense; thus, the soul n Breathes hopes immortal, and affects the skies."
Now whence came this application, by consent of nations, of the name of the visible heavens to express the invisible, but from a perception that they

* Is. xi. 9.

t Ver. *8, 19, 20.

X Ver. 23.

properly answer to each other by analogy, and that the lower heavens are a
Hence in the Word of God, the one proper type and symbol of the higher?
is constantly described by the name of the other.

But further . As, in addition to the analogies of each taken separately, there is a similar relation between the visible heaven and earth as between the heavenly state, or the church in heaven, and the church on earth; therefore, also,
these are described by the combined phrase heaven and earth: As, likewise,
there is a similar relation between the internal principles and heavenly graces constituent of a church and its external order, profession, and practice; and between all that belongs to the internal man and all that belongs to the external; therefore these, also, are included in the meaning of the phrase, heaven and earth.

Of the use of the terms in these significations, abundant instances are afforded by the Scriptures. What else can be meant by these images, when the prophet says, "Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the shies pour down righteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation,
and let righteousness spring up together?"*
It is perfectly evident that the heavens and shies, which pour down righteousness, and the earth which opens to receive it, and from which, in return, salvation and righteousness spring up,
cannot be the visible heavens, and the material earth: neither can they be Sir
Isaac Newton's "thrones and dignities "and "the inferior people:" but they must be the heavens the abodes of bliss, and the church rendered fruitful in good works by the divine influences thence descending: and the same language may be applied to the two principles of the human constitution recognised in theology by the names of the internal and external man.
So when Jehovah, in reference to the establishment of the Christian dispensation,
speaks of heaven and earth as being then to be created, and says, "I have put my words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee in the shadow of my hand,
that I may plant the heavens, and lay the foundations of the earth, and say unto Zion, Thou art my peoplef: "and when he says again, "Behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former shall not be remembered nor come into mind: but be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create; for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing and her people a joyj:" who can fail to see, that the heavens, and new heavens, here spoken of, are the internal principles of the Christian church, and the earth and new earth, her corresponding external? whence they are in both cases mentioned in connection with Zion and
Jerusalem, the acknowledged types of the church; and the creating of new heavens and a new earth is actually spoken of as synonymous with creating
Jerusalem a rejoicing and her people a joy.
Equally easy will be the interpretation of these symbols, drawn from * the world natural", wherever they occur in the sacred writings; understand by heaven, in relation to the church,
or to the man of the church, the internal essence, and by the earth the external form, and you will obtain a satisfactory and coherent meaning for every passage in which they are mentioned throughout the Word of God.

III. If it be admitted that the earth signifies the external of the church and of man, it will easily be admitted that the lowest parts of the earth, with
Hades or Hell, will signify the external man when entirely separated from the internal, so as to be the mere abode of infernal lusts and insane follies; with the state of misery consequent thereupon hereafter: -- and also, that it may

* Isa. xlv. 8.

f Isa. 1L 16.

% Ch. lxv. 17, 18.



sometimes signify a state of temptation, because then man appears to himself to be in danger of such a condition.
In the former sense of the phrase, the
Psalmist says, "But those that seek my soul to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth."* On account, also, of the manifest analogy, the term
Hades or Hell, though originally signifying merely a subterraneous region, has been transferred to denote, in common use, the state and place of misery hereafter; just as heaven, though originally signifying the visible firmament, has come to be regarded as the proper name of the state and place of eternal
But that sometimes the term is used for a state of extreme tempblessedness.
tation, appears from the prayer of Jonah, all whose adventure with the fish was representative of such a state, and who says respecting it, "Out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou heardest my voice."t

IV. From the signification of the earth, and of the heaven and earth, as expressive of the church, it necessarily follows, that great earthquakes, and the shaking of heaven and earth, are put for the shaking of churches, so as to detract and overthrow them, or at least to occasion a remarkable change in their
Thus in the passage quoted above from the twenty-fourth of Isaiah,
state.
in which the earth so evidently signifies the church, it is said of it that its
" foundations shake", and that it shall "reel to andfro like a drunkard." As no change in the state of the church ever occurred so great as that consequent upon the Lord's coming intothe world; therefore, in reference to that event,
it is written, "For thus saith the Lord of hosts: Yet once, it is a little while,
and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land; and
I will shake all nations; and the Desire of all nations shall come."J
So, that a change in the constitution of the church not less extraordinary was once again to be experienced, seems to be intimated by the Revelator; when, after he heard "a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying,
It is done", he adds; "And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon earth,
so mighty an earthquake and so great:§" a most significant emblem, surely, of such a change as must attend such a consummation as alone is worthy to be indicated by the emphatic words heard from the throne of God, "It is done!"

V. We have considered already the signification of the creating of a new heaven and a new earth, and, by consequence, of "the passing of an old one, or of the beginning and end (or rather end and beginning) of a world." If, as we have seen, the new heaven and new earth predicted by Isaiah describe the Christian church, which was to be a new dispensation both as to inward essence and outward form, of course, the former heaven and earth, which, it is declared,
should no more be remembered nor come into mind, must be the corrupt internal and ceremonial external of the Jewish church: and, as the Word of
God must ever be consistent with itself, similar must be the import of these portentous symbols wherever they occur in its pages.
Certain it is that this interpretation of them will everywhere yield a good and coherent sense.

VI. Sir Isaac Newton, though he interprets the sun of "the whole species and race of kings", yet allows it occasionally to be Christ: and that it is a striking representative of the Divine Being is testified by the consent of the uumerous nations who have worshiped bim under this image.
Accordingly,
the Psalmist affirms that "the Lord God is a snn\\ :" so, Isaiah says of the re-

* Ps. lsiil 9.

t Ch, ii. 2.

t Hag. 1L 6, 7.

§ Eev. xvi. 17, 18.

| Ps. lxsxiv. 11.



stored church, "Thy sun shall no more go down, neither shall thy moon withdraw itself; for the Lord shall be thine everlasting light* :" and by Malachi,
still more directly, the Lord declares, ** But unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of Rigghteousness arise with healing in his wings."f
Indeed, the analogy between the Lord as the source of life to all creation; -- of spiritual life,
which consists in love and wisdom, immediately, to all intelligent creatures,
and of natural life, mediately, to inanimate and irrational subjects; -- and the sun as his vicegerent for the communication of its life to mere matter, by dispensing its beams of natural heat and light to this nether world; is too obvious to escape the attention of any one. The analogy between the heat of the solar beams and the ardour of divine love, between the lucidity of the sun's rays and the illuminating efficacy of divine wisdom, are also most striking.
It has been shewn in the third LectureJ, that there is an obvious and fixed relation between fire and love, between light and truth; and this must eminently hold beThe sun tween the solar fire and light, and the love and wisdom of the Lord.
also, as the secondary source of existence to its dependent worlds, cannot but,
in the very nature of things, image forth in its properties the First Cause of existence, the Creator of itself and of all things.
It cannot then be doubted,
that in writings composed upon the principles of Analogy, the sun would often be taken as a symbol of the Lord j as we see is done in the passages above quoted.

But it is not so much of the Divine Being, personally, that the sun is taken as an emblem in the Scriptures, as of the first essential property of the Divine
Nature, which is the divine love; whence it is often coupled with the moon, and it is even said, as in the passage just cited from Isaiah, that the Lord will be both a sun and moon to his people; for the moon, as shining by a borrowed light, is the apt symbol of the principle of faith, which is produced in the mind by instruction in divine subjects outwardly communicated.
There is also a distinction made in the Scriptures between the light of the moon, and the light
The light of the sun is a perception of divine truth grounded in of the sun.
love: it is that which is experienced by those whom the Lord calls his friends,
or, as the original more strongly says, his lovers, and who become such by doing whatsoever he commands them§ : and of which he declares, that it consists in a knowledge, communicated by him, of all things that he hath heard from his
Father]] : but the light of the moon is that of those whom the Lord calls servants, whose faith, being not so much founded in love, is not attended with so clear an illumination of the understanding; whence the same Authority says,
that the servant Jcnoioeth net what his lord doeth.^ Hence the one state is called in the Scriptures a state of dag; the other, respectively, a state of night, -- not of a dark night, but of a night irradiated by the light of the -noon: thus we are called upon to praise "him that made great lights;~the sun to rule by dag,
 -- the moon and stars to rule by night"**

The stars, as noticed in the third Lectureft, are apt images of heavenly truths,

or of specific matters of knowledge on spiritual subjects.

That such is the signification, in Scripture, of the sun, moon, and stars, may
John the Revelator beheld sufficiently appear from this circumstance alone.
" a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars.^XX Now this woman is evidently the same as is

* Ch. lx 20.
T Ibid.

t Ch. iv. 2.
** Ps. exxxvi. 7, 8, 9.

t Page 96.

§ John xv. 14.

|| Vcr. 15.

17 « Rev. xii. 1.

ft P. 109.


elsewhere called "the bride, the Lamb's wife* ;" that is, she is the representative of the true church; wherefore also she is a personification of the new
Jerusalem.^ The sun with which she appeared clothed, is a plain image of the divine love by which the true church is animated, encompassed, and protected.
The moon under her feet, forming as it were her footstool, is a suitable image of that true faith upon which the church is represented in Scripture as founded:
thus when Peter avowed his faith in the Son of God, the Divine Person who was the object of his belief said, "Upon this rock", -- the great doctrine of faith just acknowledged, -- "will I build my church."^

Because then the church is built upon a true faith in the Lord, her personified emblem was seen standing upon the moon, which is the symbol of such a faith. The crown of twelve stars upon her head, was expressive of the wisdom which results from the possession of all the truths of the Word; for the number twelve is always mentioned as implj-ing all the truths of the Word and of the church, both those relating to faith and those relating to charity; which is the reason that there were twelve tribes of Israel, twelve apostles, that the new Jersalem had twelve foundations,
and that this number, with its multiples, a hundred and forty-four, and twelve thousand and a hundred and forty-four thousand, is used on so very many ocThe signification of this number, however, not being requisite to the casions.
present inquiry, we will not turn aside to consider it.

But the sun and moon are sometimes mentioned, not as images of the Lord's divine love, and of a true faith, but of principles diametrically opposite; which is the reason why the light of the sun and moon is sometimes put in contrast with that of which the Lord is the author; as in the passage of which a part was before quoted from Isaiah: "The sun shall no more be thy light by day,
neither for brightness shali the moon give light unto thee; but the Lord shall be unto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory."'§
Still they retain their general signification of love and faith, but denote different species of them: the sun is then that self-love which rules with those who reject the love of God, and the moon is that tissue of human inventions, which, in such a state,
men miscall faith. In this sense they are spoken of as shedding evil influences,
from which the objects of divine protection are to be secured: "The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night ||;" -- "They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat."«[

VII. The signification of the sun, moon, and stars, in Scripture, and the ground of that signification in that positive Analogy which forms part of the laws of nature, must now, we would fain hope, appear very certain: and if so,
the signification of the darkening of the sun, turning of the moon into blood, and falling of the stars, must also be evident, and they must be seen to denote the ceasing in the professing church, or the perversion into their opposites, of pure love to the Lord, true faith in him, and alljust knowledge of spiritual subjects.
Thus we read in Joel, "I will shew wonders in the heavens and in the earth,
blood, fire, and pillars of smoke: the sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and the terrible day of the Lord come."'**
When was this prophecy fulfilled?
Peter, at the first effusion of the Holy
Spirit, after the Lord's ascension, affirms that it was accomplished then.'ff But

* Ch. xxi. 9, Ch. xix. 7.

f Ch. xxi. 2.

§ Ch. lx. 19.

See also Rev. xxi. 23.

U Ps. cxxvi. 6.

t Matt. xvi. 18.

f Eev. vii. 16.

** Ch. ii. 30, 31.

ft See Acts ii. 1G to 20.

what sun was then darkened, but the sun of love in the Jewish church; when a Divine Teacher said of them, "I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you*;" "and this is the condemnation; that light is come into the world,
and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were ewa7."f
And what moon was then turned into blood, but the moon of true faith; when even the books of Moses were not believed by them in any beneficial manner whence the same infallible Authority says of them, "Had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me; for he wrote of me: but if ye believe not his writings,
how shall ye believe my words% ;" and they are further reproached, not only for departing from all true faith, but for setting up a false one in its place, "teachSo, when it is said that the tail ingfor doctrines the commandments ofmen."§
of the dragon "drew the third part of the stars of heaven and cast them to the earth||," how striking an image is presented of the influence exercised by the evil upon the pure truths of heaven, which are deprived, by low interpretations,
of their heavenly nature, and reduced to matters of common, earth-bom knowledge.

We will conclude with a word respecting the application of these grand symbols to the downfal of particular nations; as of Babylon^f, of Idumoea**,
and of Egypt. ff
In the truly spiritual sense, the signification will still be the same; only then the nations also must be spiritually understood, as representative of some general principle, or class of persons, connected with the church.
Even in reference to the actual downfal of those states, as kingdoms of the
" world politic", it would be very difficult to shew that the sun is the Icing, the moon the people, and the stars the great men; beside that they are thus reduced into tautological repetitions, the heavens and earth having before been exEven then with regard to plained, by Sir Isaac, to signify princes and people.
" the kingdoms of the world politic", it would afford better sense to interpret the sun, moon, and stars, to be those principles in the state, which love and faith, with divine knowledge, are in the church; and these will be, justice and judgment, civil good and political wisdom, national integrity and sound maxims of state; without the cultivation of an adequate share of which, the mightiest empires hasten to dissolution.

But all applications of such symbols to natural objects or political affairs are attended with great uncertainty, and it can seldom be shewn that, with respect to these, they have a determinate signification: because these were not the things regarded in the Divine Mind, from which the Word proceeded.
In giving a revelation, its Divine Author must have had eternal ends and spiritual objects in view: and if we explain, of spiritual objects, the natural images employed in the divine style of writing, we may always, if we possess the proper key, obtain a meaning which is clear and satisfactory; because between all natural objects and certain spiritual ones there exists by creation a fixed analogy, which may readily be traced, when we are sufficiently acquainted with the properties of each. How far this has been accomplished in this essay, in regard to the great objects and phenomena of the mundane system, it must be left to the reader to determine.

* John v. 42.
U Rev. xii. 3.

f Ch. iii. 19.
i Isa. xiii. 10.

t Ch. v. 46, 47.
** Ch. xxxiv. 4.

§ Mark vii. 7.
ft Ezek xxxii. 7,


