
=== No. I. - PROOFS OP THE SYMBOLIC CHARACTER OP THE WRITINGS OP THE OLD TESTAMENT, AFFORDED BY THE REVELATION OF JOHN

This book of the Apocalypse, though itself one of the most mysterious of the books of Scripture, yet affords a key to the interpretation of all the rest; --  at least of all those of the Old Testament; for it is impossible to read this book with any attention, without discovering, that it is written throughout upon the supposition, that every thing related in Scripture respecting the Jewish church and people, has a symbolic meaning, and is not merely a record of comparatively
If then this book is written by divine inspiraunimportant matters of fact.
tion, (and, notwithstanding the objections which some, judging by totally erroneous criteria, have raised against it, there is no book of Scripture in which the Spirit of inspiration discovers itself by more infallible marks,) we have here the most explicit testimony of that Spirit itself to the spiritual nature of the more ancient Scriptures. We will notice a little more particularly than in the text above, some statements which prove these three points; the typical character of the persons mentioned in the Old Testament; -- of the rituals of the
Mosaic law; --  of the places mentioned in the Old Testament.

I. We need go no farther than the second chapter of this extraordinary book, to find proof that the events related in the historical nart of the Old
Testament, contain an ulterior reference to subjects of a spiritual nature, important to the Church and her members in every age; and that the persons whose actions are recorded in the Holy Word, are all typical characters.
For in the divine address to the Church of Pergamos, we have these words: M But
I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication.'*
A little further, we find Jesus Christ saying to the Church of Thyatira, "Notwithstanding, I have a few things against thee, because thou sufFerest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach, and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols. And I
gave her space to repent of her fornication; and she repented not.
Behold, I
cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds: and I will kill her children with death: And all the churches shall know, that I am he which searcheth the
In these passages we have two of the characters of the reins and hearts."f
Old Testament brought forward, and described as still occupied in their old work of perverting the church.

* Kev. ii. 14.

t Ver. 20 to 23.

a



The book of Numbers* relates the history of the prophet Balaam, who was employed by Balak king of Moab, to obstruct the march of the Israelites by his incantations; and who actually did prepare a snaref into which they fell, and were visited in consequence by a destroying plague. The narrative afterwards mentions his death by the sword of the Israelites}: : and there, if nothing but a record of natural events were intended, we should expect the history of Balaam and his arts to end. No mention is made of any "doctrine "taught by him much less of any sect of followers attached to such doctrine.
But in the passage just quoted we find mention occur, not indeed of Balaam himself, as being still alive, but of a body of his disciples, existing fifteen hundred years after hi3
death, during the whole of which interval he does not appear to have had any disciples at all

But the other instance we have cited is more remarkable still.

Jezebel was the wife of Ahab, one of the most wicked kings that ever reigned in Israel; but who, wicked as he was, was not so abandoned as his wife: for the sacred Record says, "There was none like unto Ahab, which did sell himself to work wickedness in the sight of the Lord, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up.§
This wicked queen perished miserably|| about 2600 years ago, and above eight hundred years before the book of the Revelation of John was written: yet she is here spoken of as being still living, --  still practising what she delighted in when alive, which was, to pervert the church, and to seduce or destroy the
Lord's faithful servants; -- and she is represented as being still to undergo the punishment due to her crimes, though that had been so dreadfully inflicted
Can any thing then be upon her, personally, by the instrumentality of Jehu.
more plain, than that this mention of Balaam and of Jezebel in the Apocalypse,
is designed to instruct us, that they were both representative characters, and thus that the narratives which record their actions are replete with a hidden meaning, beyond that which appears on the surface? To admit, as all must admit, that they were used as types by John, but to deny that they have a typical signification in the Old Testament, is to maintain a gross inconsistency.
John gives no sort of intimation that he is assigning them a new relation, but evidently considers their typical character as a thing fully established, and not to be questioned.

We will give two other examples.

The Lamb that was seen in the midst of
This is an the throne in heaven^, is called "the Lion of the tribe of Jtida."**
allusion to the prophetic benediction of his sons by Jacob; in which we read,
" Judah is a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, art thou gone up; he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him upff:"
and thus we are taught, that the ultimate reference of this enigmatical saying is not to Judah, or to his tribe, but to the Lord Jesus Christ.

In the seventh chapter, when four angels were seen holding the four winds,
: Hurt not the earth, neither the sea,
and another angel cried to them, saying,
nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads;"
and when, in consequence, exactly twelve thousand were sealed of each of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel: -- every one sees that the children of Israel and their tribes cannot be personally meant: and if they have a symbolic meaning here, they must have a symbolic meaning elsewhere; which is thus clearly taught.

* Chs. xxii. to xxv.
B 2 Kings ix. 30 to end.

t Ch. xxxi. 16.
<$ Ch. v. G.

t Ch. xxxi. 8.
** Yer. 5.

5 1 KtaP **' 25.
tt Gen. xlix. 9.



II. In regard to the notices of the Mosaic rituals.

In the eighth chapter we read of "the golden altar which was before the throne", and of an angel having
1 and to whom was given "much incense, that he should offer
" a golden censer,'
it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar." *
This is an allusion to the golden altar which stood before the veil in the tabernacle and temple, and
In the eleventh chapter an angel said to upon which the incense was offered. f
John, "Rise, and measure the temple cf God, and the altar, and them that wor=-
ship therein: but the court, which is without the temple, leave out, and meaThis alludes to the temple, its altar and courts as they sure it not J", &c.
So, also, when the Revelator says, "I
existed under the Jewish economy.
looked, and, behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened § ;" --  "and the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God |j
;"
 --  "and I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels^"
 -- "and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne,
saying, It is done** ;" -- "And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament"^
It is plain that these things are all here mentioned as symbols of spiritual things; and what they denote is also in some measure hinted; and thus we are taught that they have a symbolic meaning when mentioned in the Old Testament.

;"

Beside those which are properly rituals, many of the other representatives of the Old Testament are also alluded to, and their representative character as the tree of Ufe\% ; the manna§§ ; the key of thus clearly established;
David |[[|; and the plagues of Egypt.%^

III. Respecting the places mentioned in the Israelitish history, there are
The river Euphrates is mentioned thus: John "heard a several allusions.
voice from the four horns of the golden altar, which is before God, saying to the sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates*** :" "The sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates, and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared."ttt
^-s Commentators are disposed,
though with very questionable success, to interpret these passages literally, we will not build any thing upon them, but leave them to the consideration of the intelligent, while we mention other passages for which none can claim a literal interpretation.

Of the two witnesses it is said, after they are killed by the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit, that "their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt; where also our Lord was crucified."J^±
Here it is difficult to suppose that these figurative witnesses, when slain by a figurative beast, can lie in any other than a figurative city: and what can that be, but some state of opposition to, or of
The nature of this state then must be dethe perversion of, divine things?
noted by the names which are applied to it; and of course Sodom and Egypt must have a similar meaning when mentioned elsewhere in the Holy Word

* Ver. 3.
|| Ver. 8: See also Exod. xl. 34, and 1 Kings viii. 10.
** Yer. 17.

t Exod. xl. 26, 27.

% Ver. 1, 2.

ft Ver. 19.

%% Ch. iii. 7; xxii. 2, 14.
|i|| Ch. iii. 7: (compare Isa. xxii. 22.)
f^T The turning of the waters into blood, ch. xvi. 3, 4: The plague of frogs (allusion to,)
ver. 13: The plague of boils, ver. 2: The plague of hail mingled with fire, ch. viii. 7: Tho plague of locusts, ch. ix. 3: The plague of darkness, civ. viii. 12.

§§ Ch. iL 17.

§ Ch. xv. 5.

V Rev. xvi. 1.

*** Ch. ix. 13, 14.

ftt Ch. xvi. 12.

%tX Ch. xi. 8.


otherwise it would be quite unmeaning to call such a state by those name3
here.

Of Mount Sion, we have this remarkable notice: "I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on the Mount Sion, and with him a hundred and forty-four thousand*
having his Father's name written in their foreheads."* Mount Sion, or Zion,
is frequently mentioned in the Old Testament, and is generally allowed to have a spiritual signification; which this passage demonstrates; and also shews that its spiritual reference must be to something of the most holy and exalted nature. The hundred and forty-four thousand here again mentioned,
are, no doubt, the same as were before said to have been sealed out of all the tribes of Israel: and what is here said of them further evinces, that we are not to understand by them Israelites according to the flesh, but "Israelites indeed, in whom is no guilef;" or them who receive in the most ample manner the graces of salvation, and yield the most unhesitating obedience to all the divine will: for it is presently added, "These are they which were not defiled with women, for they are virgins "[but not necessarily in the Roman
Catholic sense] : "these are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth: these were redeemed from among men, being the first fruits to God and to the Lamb: and in their mouth was found no guile j for they are with*
out fault before the throne of God."J

The Jews were carried captive to Babylon; and the judgments which afterwards befel that proud city, are repeatedly foretold in Isaiah and Jeremiah,
whose predictions are considered to have received a complete fulfilment in the
But two whole total desolation which that metropolis has experienced.
chapters of the Revelation, and parts of three others, are occupied with accounts of Babylon and her fall, as if she were still standing, and her fall still to come, at the late period to which those parts of the book evidently refer: and what is equally remarkable, much of the language used on the ocsasion by
John, is the same, or nearly so, as was before used, in reference to Babylon, by
Isaiah and Jeremiah. An angel says in the fourteenth chapter of Revelation,
" Babylon is fallen, is fallen^ ;" in the eighteenth chapter, another angel crie3
mightily saying, "Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen\\ :" in the twenty-first of Isaiah a watchman says, "Babylon is fallen, is fallen^ :" and Jeremiah says
"Babylon is suddenly fallen, and destroyed."** The angel in the Revelation*
adds, -- "and is become the habitation of demons, and the hold of every foul spirit, and the cage of everv unclean and hateful birdff:" Isaiah says, "Wild beasts of the desert shall lie there, and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there."JJ
So it is said in Jeremiah, "The wild beasts of the desert with the wild beasts of the islands shall dwell there, and the owls shall dwell therein."§§ The Apocalyptic angel proceeds to say, "For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication|||| ;" and when Babylon was seen under the figure of a woman, she had "a golden cup in her hand, full of abominations and fllthiness of her fornication^:" Jeremiah says, "Babylon has been a golden cup in the Lord's hand, that hath made all the earth drunken; the nations have drunken of her
Another voice was heard by John,
wine; therefore the nations are mad."***
saying, "Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins>

* Ch. xiv. 1.
T Ver. 9.
5§ Ch. 1. 39.

f John i. 47.
** Ch. 11 8.
till Itev. xviii. 3.

t Kev. xiv. 4, 5.

ft Ch. xviii. 2.

§ Ver. 8.

|| Ver. 2.

» Ch. xiii. 21.

TV Ch. xvii. 4.

*** Ch. li. 7.

and that ye receive not of her plagues: for her sins have reached unto heaven,
and God hath remembered her iniquities*:" Jeremiah says, "Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and deliver every man his soul: be not cut off in her iniquity; for this is the time of the Lord's vengeance; he will render her a recompense! :" and again, "Forsake her, and let us go every one into his own country: for her judgment reacheth unto heaven, and is lifted up even to the
" My people, go ye out of the midst of her, and deliver skies% :" and again:
ye every man his soul from the fierce anger of the Lord."§
The voice heard by John proceeds to say, "Reward her, even as she hath rewarded you, and double unto her double according to her works|| :" Jeremiah says, "Recompense her according to her works; according to all that she hath done, do unto her."^[ The voice in the Revelation describes her pride and its consequences thus: "She saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow: therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine** :" which is thus paralleled in Isaiah: "Thou saidst,
I shall be a lady for ever; -- I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children: but these two things shall come unto thee in a moment, in one day; the loss of children and widowhood."ff Much then follows in the
Revelation, which closely resembles what is said of the destruction of Tyre in the twenty-sixth and twenty-seventh chapters of Ezekiel; after which it is written, "And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great mill-stone, and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all$J;" What was thus done by an angel in the sight of John, resembles what was done by a messenger sent by Jeremiah to ancient Babylon: he directed him, when he arrived there,
to read the prophecy against it; and he concludes his injunctions in these words: "And it shall be, when thou hast made an end of reading this book,
that thou shalt bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midst of Euphrates: and thou shalt say, Thus shall Babylon sink, and shall not rise from the evil that
I will bring upon her."§§

Now it is evident that the Babylon of the Apocalypse is altogether a spiritual Babylon; as also, that the sublime images by which her judgment is described are all a series of pure symbols, having none but a spiritual signiBut the very same things are said respecting the judgment on fication,
Babylon pronounced by the old prophets: is it not then evident, that the
Babylon of the Old Testament, though a real city, was nevertheless a typical one? as likewise, that the language in which the old prophets announced its destruction, was equally symbolic with the same language when used by the
Apocalyptic divine, and that although, with them, it had a literal sense, it
Are we not thus plainly taught by the Revelator,
had a spiritual sense also?
what is the nature of the prophetic style of the Old Testament? When he uses the same language, and treats of the same places, as they do; and this long after the places had ceased to exist; does he not clearly inform us, that the places treated of by them had a typical character, and that the language in which they spoke of them had a meaning beyond that which appears on the surface?

There remains but one other place to notice, which is Jerusalem.

It is

* Kev. xviii. 4, 5.

|| Rev. xviii. 6.
tt Ch. xlvii. 7, 8, 9.

f Ch. li. 6.

% Ver. 9.

§ Ver. 45.

f Ch. L 29.
XX Ch. xviii. 21.

** Ch. xviii. 7, 8.

§§ Jer. li. 63, 64.



allowed by commentators in general, that Jerusalem is a type of the church which principle is frequently recognised by the translators of the English
Bible, in the summaries of the contents prefixed to the chapters.
There are.
however, various passages in the Old Testament, in which, under the name of
Jerusalem, the church is treated of as being in a state of desolation or corruption: and many in which, on account of their plain applicability to the circumstances of the actual or carnal Jerusalem, there might be room to doubt whether any thing further is intended, were it not for other passages which do
But in the Apocalypse, Jerusalem is nevev not admit of such limitation.
mentioned in a way that will admit of an application to the carnal Jerusalem
In the only passage where an allusion is made to the carnal Jerusalem,
at all.
as the place "where our Lord was crucified*," it is called, not Jerusalem, but
" Sodom and Egypt" Whenever "Jerusalem "is mentioned, it is always in a manner that fully establishes its meaning to be, the true church of the Lord thus completely establishing, at the same time, the symbolic or typical character of the city Jerusalem under the Jewish dispensation. To guard against its being referred to the mere city Jerusalem, it likewise is always called either the "new Jerusalem^," or the "holy Jerusalem% ;" and it is spoken of as
"coming down from God out of heaven § ;" just as Paul, to preserve the same distinction, calls the carnal Jerusalem, or Jerusalem taken as a type of the Jewish church, the "Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children|| ;" and he terms the true church "the Jerusalem above, 1" or the heavenly Jerusalem: thus he says, continuing the sentence of which a part is just quoted, "But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us
:" and again, "Ye are come unto Mount Sion, and to the city of the
So when the Revelator speaks of a new Jerusalem, such a one as cometh down from God out of heaven, -- while he clearly predicts by the sublime symbol a future glorious state of the church among men, (" Behold, the tabernacle of God is icith men\\ ;") he distinctly points to the typical character of the ancient Jerusalem, as designating the church in general: and, to reverse the proposition, the acknowledged typical character of the ancient Jerusalem, points out what is meant by the new
Jerusalem here. To adopt the words of one of the most learned and esteemed commentators, Dr. Hammond: "The true meaning of the New Jerusalem mentioned here (ch. xxi. ver. 2,) and again with the addition of holy, and the glory of God upon it (ver. 11,) will be a key to the interpreting of this chapter." [He might have added, and of all the passages in the Old Testament where Jerusalem i3 mentioned. He proceeds to say] "That it signifies not the state of glorified saints in heaven, appears by its descending from heaven in both places, (and that according to the use of the phrase, ch. x. 1.
and xviii. 1, as an expression of some eminent benefit and blessing in the church; ) and so it must needs be here on earth: and being here set down,
with the glory of God upon it, it will signify the pure Christian church, joining Christian practice with the profession thereof; and that in a flourishing
In this sense we have condition, expressed by the new heaven and new earth.
the supernal Jerusalem, (Gal. iv. 26,) the New Jerusalem, (Rev. iii. 12,) where,
is promised, that God will write upon him the to the constant professor name of God, and the name of the city of God, the New Jerusalem, which alllf living God, the heavenly Jerusalem:'"**

* Ch. xi. 8.
U Gal. iv. 25.

t Ch. iii. 12, xxL 2.
If Ver. 2G.

+ Ver. 10.

** Hcb. xii. 22.

§ Cb. iii. 12, xxi. 2.
tt Rev. xxi. 3.



Til there signifies the pure, catholic, Christian Church"
Filled with this view cf the subject, which is so evidently the true one, the pious Watts, in a hymn entitled "A Vision of the Kingdom of Christ among men*," has these rapturous stanzas

" From the third heaven, where God resides,

That holy, happy place,

Ehc >~ew Jerusalem comes down,
Adorn'd with shining grace. -- 

How Ions', dear Saviour,

how long

Shall this bright hour delay?

Fly swifter round, ye wheels of time,

And bring the welcome d

Altogether, then, I trust, it is perfectly evident, that had the Revelation cf
John been written by that Apostle as an express commentary upon the Old
Testament, it could not have taught us more clearly than it does, that every thing relating to the history of the Jews, to their worship, and to the countries and cities inhabited by them and by the nations with whom they had intercourse, as' recorded by the pen of inspiration, had a symbolic and spiritual meaning. Had the Revelation been an express commentary, we might indeed have been informed more explicitly what that meaning is: but the general principle, that there is such a meaning, -- that all the inspired writings do positively contain a sense beyond that which is extant on the surface, -- could not have
If we deny this principle, we deny to the been more decisively established.
whole of the Revelation of John any meaning at all: we convert his sublime symbols into a senseless jargon: and, if we still admit his book to have been written by inspiration, we charge with egregious trifling the unerring Spirit of
God.

