
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The charge to Joshua offers plenty of material for discussion. The difference between reformation and regeneration is also a fruitful subject. The personal attitude toward the place of religion in life enters into both and carries over into our attitude toward the Word, the doctrines, and the church. There is a good deal of superficial thinking in regard to the organized New Church today. We need to go more deeply into the subject and to face our responsibility to the organization.

---
After the decision to follow the advice of the ten fainthearted spies, the children of Israel wandered for thirty-eight more years in the wilderness. There are three accounts of these wanderings: the longer account (Exodus 15 through Numbers 32) and two summaries (Numbers 33 and Deuteronomy 1-3). Because many of the places named have not been identified, it is not easy to trace the wanderings on the map, but we know that they were in the general region of what is called the wilderness of Zin and the Arabah or Mount Seir, the country which lies between the Gulf of Aqabah and the Dead Sea. Some of the incidents of this period are studied in this course: the rebellion of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram; the blossoming of Aaron's rod; and the story of Balaam. There is also the story of the fiery serpents in Numbers 21 which we need to know because of later mentions of the serpent of brass which Moses set up at that time. The Israelites fought a number of battles and conquered such enemies as opposed them. Their leader in battle was Joshua, who had been chosen for this duty in their first battle against Amalek, before they reached Sinai. We recall that he was also one of the two spies who urged the people to go bravely forward and take possession of the Holy Land in spite of the apparent difficulties in the way.

All the leaders chosen by the Lord throughout the Bible story picture the Word of God in some aspect. Moses represents the Law as it appears to us when we obey it through hope of reward or fear of consequences. This type of obedience serves to set our outward lives in order and leads us to the border of the Holy Land, but it cannot cross the border. Moses had been told by the Lord that he would not be allowed to enter the Holy Land, although he would have an opportunity to see it before he died. Read Numbers 20:1-13. In the type of obedience represented by Moses there is a spirit of self-praise. In fact, Swedenborg points out (@AC 2946) that in the first stage of reformation a man does not believe that he is being reformed by the Lord but by himself. This spirit cannot enter the Holy Land. However, if the person in this first state wants to become good — if he longs for a more spiritual state — even if he goes no further in this life, he can be introduced into further states after death (@TCR 571). The wilderness, Swedenborg says, is predicated both of those who are afterward reformed and of those who cannot be reformed (@AC 2708[5]). In the literal sense of the story of the wilderness wanderings, the great mass of the people did actually die in the wilderness and never reached the Holy Land. But the children — those in states of innocence and trust — along with Joshua and Caleb — who in this application would represent those who progress to the point of regeneration from mature choice of truth and good — did go on into the Holy Land. The crossing of the Jordan represents the end of the state of reformation and the beginning of regeneration. Reformation and regeneration are two different things: reformation is the setting in order of the external life, and regeneration has to do primarily with the will. We may reform our conduct without making any effort to change our feelings.

We "leave the wilderness and cross the Jordan" when we are ready to face the evils and falsities in our hearts and minds and fight against them. Then we begin to use the truth willingly because we have proved it and found that it led us to where we really wanted to go all the time. Joshua represents "truth fighting." We still know that our "Holy Land" is full of enemies; that we have our severest temptations ahead of us, those evils within ourselves which we have not yet faced; but we are now eager to go forward and face them. The whole spirit is changed. Read the people's answer to Joshua in our chapter for today (verses 16-18) and compare it with their treatment of Joshua in Numbers 14:6-10.

The Lord's charge to Joshua was twofold. We always remember the first part of it because it is three times repeated in this first chapter and impresses itself on our memories: "Be strong and of a good courage." The children of Israel had learned by long and bitter experience that they got nowhere by trying to avoid conflict. Neither do we. When we refuse to recognize and fight evil and falsity, our character is weakened and with it our influence for good in the world. We get nowhere ourselves and we are of no real help to anyone else. We should be "of a good courage." The charge is important to us at every step of our regeneration. To see an evil in oneself and regret it but say, "I was born that way; I can't change" is to close the mind to the Lord's promises and make it impossible for Him to give us power to overcome. To see so many evils in ourselves that we give up without attacking any one of them is not only cowardly but irrational. If we recognize our evils and fight them one by one, sure of the Lord's help, we shall progress steadily toward the desired goal.

The charge is also especially important to us in the New Church today. We are a small body and many of our societies have been dwindling and even going out of existence. Many have lost confidence in the importance of our organization. When we show this lack of trust and faith, our children are not inspired with love for the church, they are not adequately instructed in it, and no one else is made aware of what the New Church has to give them. In every community there are individuals hungering for just what we alone can give. We do not find these people by hiding our light under a bushel. If we believe — as we should — that our doctrines have been given by the Lord to meet the spiritual needs of the people of this new age, then we must take the Lord's charge to Joshua as a charge to each one of us.

And the second part of the charge is equally pertinent: "Observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn not from it to the right hand or to the left." To turn to the right hand is to err on the side of what we imagine to be charity, to refuse to recognize that sin brings inevitable punishment, not from God but from its own corrupting nature, to explain away the rational statements in our doctrines on the ground that the Lord could not have meant them. To turn to the left hand is to err on the side of intellectualism, to look at the Word from human reason and self-intelligence rather than accepting it as it was given and seeing divine wisdom in it. The charge goes on: "This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein." The Word — as the Lord has given it to us, not as men would like to interpret and change it — is our bulwark and defense, our leader, the light on our path, the river which cleanses our lives and quenches our spiritual thirst. If we go forward obeying this charge and trusting in the Lord, we shall have good success.

To understand verses 12 to 15 we need to read Numbers 32.

Just as Lot long before had seen the rich Jordan valley and chosen it for his dwelling place, so now some of the tribes preferred it to the Holy Land itself. Many people want to know what is right and to do it, yet their real enjoyment is in outward activity, "good works" in the natural sense. But they should be like the tribes in our story rather than like Lot. They should be willing to cross the Jordan with their brethren and help in the conquest of the land before settling down in the valley; that is, to recognize their inner evils and fight and overcome them as a means to innocent enjoyment. The whole life must be set in order, inward as well as outward. Read here Joshua 22, which tells of the final settlement of these tribes and the altar they set up east of the Jordan as a reminder of their duty to the Lord.

