
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The meaning of the change from the period of reformation to that of regeneration is important here. The Intermediates have not reached this change, but they should look forward to it. For all young people we may hope that the decision to lead heavenly lives will be made early, and orderly progress will then follow.

---
We have learned that the Israelites were condemned to wander in the wilderness for thirty-eight years because they allowed the ten spies to frighten them out of the attempt to conquer the Holy Land which the Lord had promised them. Of all the men twenty years old and upward (that is, all the men old enough to have voted at the time) only Joshua and Caleb, the two spies who told them to trust in the Lord and go forward, would live beyond this period and cross the Jordan. Even Moses was not allowed to enter the Holy Land. He had been told by the Lord on one occasion when he used his power to glorify himself in the eyes of the people (Numbers 20:1-13) that he would be allowed to see the Promised Land but not to enter it. The last chapter of the book of Deuteronomy tells how, at the end of the wanderings, Moses went up on top of Mount Nebo, was shown by the Lord all the land into which the people were to enter, and died.

During the thirty-eight years, the children of Israel had many experiences of the Lord's protection and mercy. For they were constantly becoming discouraged and discontented and had to be taught how much safer and happier they were when they obeyed the Lord. Can you see that we have to be taught in just the same way? We know that we get along better when we are good, but our own way always looks so much easier and pleasanter at the moment that, like the people in the Bible, we keep putting off the real effort to change. So we get into one trouble after another until gradually, one by one, our weak and selfish feelings are killed off and we are ready to face ourselves as we really are. This is the time when we are finally prepared to enter the Holy Land. For no one can live in the Holy Land of heavenly character who is not willing to see and acknowledge his own faults and fight against them with the Lord's help. As long as we are doing right just for the sake of getting along better in the world or from a general "sense of duty," we stay in the wilderness.

When Moses died, Joshua was appointed by the Lord to take his place. In fact, Moses had told the people that Joshua was to succeed him. Joshua had been the leader of the fighting men of Israel from the very first battle in the wilderness. The people knew and trusted him. Swedenborg tells us that he represents "the truth fighting." When we really begin to use the truth we know to fight against the bad things in ourselves and in the world, we are going forward under Joshua. For example, suppose you have a tendency to blame other people for everything that happens to you. This is a common fault, because it seems the easiest way of getting out of taking the blame ourselves. Your parents see this fault in you and try to break you of the bad habit, and you gradually learn to control it outwardly so that you will get along better at home; but you still have the same feelings inside, and every once in a while they get too strong for you and you have to be corrected again. This is like the enemies rising up against Israel in the wilderness. When you get a little older, the Lord shows you that this is really a fault in yourself which you must recognize and fight, that you yourself are responsible for your troubles and not someone else; you begin to fight it because you see that He is telling you the truth; and then you go ahead and overcome it. This is the time when you are entering the Holy Land under Joshua.

The Lord's charge to Joshua was a twofold one: He told him to be "strong and of a good courage," and He told him to "observe to do according to all the law" of Moses — to "turn not from it to the right hand or to the left," and to "meditate therein day and night." We need to read the Word every day and to study it and think about it so that our knowledge of what is really right in the Lord's sight will always lead us forward. And we need to try to live up to every bit of truth we learn from the Word. If we are doing this, we may be sure that the Lord is with us and will help us. He will never help us to get our own way when our own way is selfish, because He loves us and wants us to be happy, and selfishness always leads to unhappiness. And we need to remember that it takes courage to do what is right in the face of temptation. If we can say "no" when someone tries to get us to do what we know is wrong, we are showing ourselves to be "strong and of a good courage." The people in any community who are trusted and respected are those who have developed this kind of courage.

There is something else in our chapter which we will not understand unless we go back and read Numbers 32:1-6, 16-22. You remember from the lesson on Abram and Lot that the low valley of the Jordan was very fertile and a fine grazing country, and that it pictures the natural plane of our lives — the work and pleasure we have in making a living in this world and enjoying its good things. Lot, you remember, got into trouble because he separated from Abram and was drawn into the wicked city of Sodom which was in the plain. But the tribes which settled in the valley east of the Jordan River in our chapter today did not make this mistake. They had agreed that their fighting men would go on into the Holy Land with the others and not come back to settle down until they had helped overcome the enemies in the land. The fact that they left their wives and children and flocks and herds there means that they continued to love and think about the fertile valley, but they put doing right ahead of the enjoyment of the kind of life they had chosen. The Lord wants us to enjoy our life here in this world and to have its good things — food, entertainment, success — but He knows that there is only one way in which we can enjoy these things without their hurting us, and that is by obeying the divine laws and overcoming the selfishness which is natural to us. The Holy Land must be conquered before we can safely enjoy worldly things. Think, for example, of the possession of money. Naturally we all imagine we should like to have plenty of it. We think people who have money ought to be happy. But you know, if you stop to think, that some wealthy people are happy and others are not. Some make their money without hurting other people and use it to make other people as well as themselves happy. Others make their money at the expense of other people and use it selfishly. They may be lonely misers or they may live an apparently gay social life with others like themselves, but they are not happy because they always want more than they can have and wear themselves out trying to get it. All through the Word the Lord shows us the proper relation of worldly things to spiritual things. Of the worldly things He says (Matthew 6:32-33): "Your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you."

