
=== Junior

Begin with a suggestion of the difference between living in one's own proper country and living in a "strange" or foreign land. Point out that heaven is the true home of everyone, and that the Holy Land pictures heaven, which begins in us with a heavenly character. Then take up the review to give the children the background necessary for recognizing the importance of crossing the Jordan and understanding the meaning of the charge to Joshua. A challenge to courage is very helpful at this age.

---
The children of Israel had come to Kadesh sometime during the second year of their journey in the wilderness.

What did they do at Kadesh?

What good things did the spies find in the Holy Land?

What did they find that discouraged them?

What did ten of the spies advise?

Who were the two who gave different advice?

Which advice did the people take?

What was their punishment?

The children of Israel had to wander in the wilderness for another thirty-eight years before all the people had died who were responsible for their cowardly choice. Even Moses had at one time been disobedient to the Lord; so he could not enter the Holy Land either. You will find this story in Numbers 20:1-13. The forty years in the wilderness are a long history of unwilling obedience to the law of the Lord. And unwilling obedience has no place in heaven. This is because unwilling obedience is always mostly selfish — we obey because we want some reward or are afraid of some punishment — and we are never in heavenly states when we are selfish.

Everyone recognizes that the Holy Land (the "Promised Land") pictures heaven. But the Lord told His followers that the kingdom of heaven was within them. That is, heaven must be within our hearts before we can live in heaven. The heavenly life is a happy life because everyone in heaven loves to do what the Lord wants him to do. We know we are not born loving to do right. First our parents have to make us do it. Then we begin to make ourselves do right because we see that we get along better that way. This is like the children of Israel going about in the wilderness obeying Moses because they were sure to get into trouble if they didn't. But this is not a heavenly state of life.

However, if we keep on doing right until it becomes a habit, the Lord can put into our hearts the love of doing right. Then we are ready to enter the Holy Land — not necessarily to leave this world for heaven, but to have heaven in our hearts and minds.

After Moses died, the new leader appointed by the Lord was Joshua. He had been the leader of Israel's fighting men from the beginning of the wilderness journey and had led them to victory several times. And of course he was one of the two spies who had urged them to go bravely ahead into the Holy Land years before. The people obeyed him because they knew and trusted his leadership. We have seen that all the stories in the Bible are given us by the Lord to teach us things we need to know about our own lives. All the leaders appointed by the Lord picture the leadership of the Word of God as it comes to us in different stages of our development. So Moses pictures the Law as it appears to us when we are obeying it because we know we have to. But Joshua pictures the same Law when we accept it freely and willingly, and use it to help us conquer our inner enemies, our selfishness and laziness and general hatefulness — all the bad things that keep cropping up in our hearts and minds all our lives. These are the enemies which the children of Israel were to find waiting for them in the Holy Land itself.

It takes courage for us to recognize and fight these enemies.

That is why three times in our chapter Joshua is told to be strong and of a good courage. But we must also always keep in mind that we still do not know enough by ourselves to do right: we must always go on learning more and more from the Word of God and thinking about it and about what it teaches. The Lord says to Joshua, "This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success." And He says, "Observe to do according to all the law which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn not from it to the right hand or to the left." Sometimes we get to thinking that we are pretty good and so don't need to worry anymore about doing wrong; we say that our conscience will tell us what is right. But our conscience tells us only what we have already learned about right — if we have not always had the wisest teachers, our conscience may even tell us wrong things. You remember Abraham's conscience told him to sacrifice Isaac, and he was saved from doing so great a wrong only by the Lord's voice speaking to him. The Lord speaks to us in His Word, and we need to read it every day all our lives and listen for the Lord's voice in it.

There is one other incident in our chapter which we need to understand. Read Numbers 32:1-6, 16-22. As the Holy Land pictures heaven, the country just outside of it on the east side of the Jordan pictures earthly life and the kind of pleasure we get out of this world. The Lord wants us to enjoy the good things of this world — food, clothing, beautiful possessions, music, art, entertainment, success — but there is one condition: we must first be sure the selfish things in our hearts and minds are seen and overcome. There is a right way and a wrong way to use the possessions of this world and to enjoy its pleasures. So long as we are selfish and greedy, the good things that are given to us do us more harm than good. You remember the dangers into which Lot fell when he chose to live in the fertile and attractive valley. The two and a half tribes spoken of in Numbers 32 and mentioned again in this lesson agreed not to make this mistake; they agreed to fight alongside their brethren until the enemies were conquered, before going back and settling in the land of their choice.

