
=== Notes for Parents

The lesson the children have for today is an inspiring chapter.

The children of Israel are encamped beside the Jordan River, not far from the northern end of the Dead Sea, about opposite the city of Jericho. They are looking across the river at the land of their fathers, the land toward which they have been traveling for forty years, the land which has been promised them by the Lord. Moses has died, but Joshua, who has led them in all their battles, has been appointed to take his place. They know Joshua and trust him. All the people who refused to take Joshua's advice thirty-eight years before have died in the wilderness.

The charge to Joshua, "Be strong and of good courage," is one which we all should learn, for we all need it again and again in our lives. The right way is not always the easy way, and it takes courage to do right. This is a lesson which parents should help the church to impress upon children, for they will often be tempted by others to do wrong and be called "sissies" if they refuse. If they can be brought to feel that it takes more courage to face ridicule than to do something wrong, it will be a help to them and to you. Children like to feel that they are brave. Bravery in a good cause is true bravery, and a virtue.

There is another part of the charge to Joshua which we must not forget. He was to obey the law of Moses and to "meditate therein day and night." This was the condition on which the Lord could help him and give him success. The Lord wants to help all of us to succeed, but because He loves us, He cannot help us when what we want to do is contrary to His laws. For His laws are the only laws which lead to happiness, and He wants us to be happy. This is also something the children especially need to understand. The Lord sees farther than we do. He sees the final result of anything we undertake to do, and many times He sees that the thing we think will make us happy will have just the opposite result in the end. Because we are naturally selfish, the Lord's laws seem hard to us, but obedience to them is actually much easier than suffering the consequences of breaking them will be. When the Lord was in the world He said, "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me ... For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light." (Matthew 11:29-30)

