
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The twofold charge to Joshua is the important lesson for this age group. Stress the necessity of reading and studying the Word and accepting its teaching instead of trying to lead ourselves.

---
Since the death of Moses marks the end of a particular point in our life's journey, it may be well to review briefly at this point.

In one sense we pass through the whole cycle of the Bible story again and again, and there is no part of the Word which does not have its application to something in our experience at almost any point in our life. However, the narrative in its general outline covers our life from conception to the finding of our final home in heaven or hell. In this larger view the stories of Creation, the Garden of Eden, the Flood and the Tower of Babel give us an understanding of what is in us by heredity from our whole ancestry in the human race; and the stories of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob tell us about our progress — after we are born into this world — from infancy to early youth, to later youth. During this period we descend spiritually as we develop naturally. That is, in infancy (the Abraham state) we are close to the Lord in a celestial state of innocence and trust, but entirely ignorant and helpless from the point of view of our ability to take care of ourselves in the world. In the state of early childhood we learn a measure of control over our bodies and physical wants. Then comes the period covered by the stories of Ishmael and Isaac, when our reasoning powers are developed: first the natural reason (Ishmael) and a little later the higher or spiritual reason (Isaac). Then we are ready to begin to try our wings independently of our parents, and the life of Jacob pictures the period when we first try to regulate our own external conduct, making a good many mistakes, but learning all the time and developing our various faculties as Jacob produced his twelve sons. We can see that this is an advance so far as our life in this world is concerned, but a descent from a celestial to a natural state as to our inner life. When we reach maturity — or nearly reach it — we come to the period of the Egyptian bondage, when we are so occupied with finding our place in the worldly scheme of things that we are apt to forget our spiritual responsibilities altogether for a time. In our recent lessons we have seen that most people sooner or later realize this bondage and try to break away from it. Then our spiritual progress upward begins. Its first essential is the recognition that the law of God must be our leader and guide — Moses and the pillar of cloud and fire. We have to remake our external conduct under this guidance, and it is a long, hard journey. We obey first from a rational perception that the orderly, religious life is actually the most likely to lead to success: then we progress to obedience from a sense of duty — as the Israelites came to think of themselves as the "chosen people." This whole period is the period of reformation: it is not a heavenly state. Fairly early in this process of reformation we come into sight of the Holy Land of heavenly character, see its beauties and even taste its fruits, but we cannot actually enter it until our good habits have become so firmly established that the Lord can remove the things in us which have been resisting and retarding our progress. Moses does not enter the Holy Land. This does not mean that when we become heavenly people we cease to obey the Law. But it does mean that the Law is no longer a hard taskmaster, but a trusted leader. We go forward eagerly and willingly instead of under compulsion.

Joshua, Swedenborg says, represents "truth fighting." He had been the leader of the fighting men of Israel from the beginning of the wilderness journey. He was also one of the two spies who urged the people to go forward into the Holy Land and reminded them that the Lord would help them. The Holy Land represents heaven — or a heavenly character, for we do not enter heaven unless heaven is first within us. It is the Lord's spirit of unselfish love which makes heaven, and we can receive this in our hearts from Him if and when we are prepared to recognize the evils which are in our hearts and to fight them with His help. This is what is meant by the conquest of the Holy Land, and it is called regeneration or a new birth. Reformation and regeneration are two different things [or, to put it another way, two consecutive stages in the process of becoming a spiritual person. -Editor]. Reformation is the setting in order of the external life, and regeneration has to do primarily with the will. All the stories of the Israelites up to our lesson for today have had to do with our development and preparation for the beginning of regeneration. Swedenborg says no one begins to regenerate until he is grown up, that is, until the Lord sees that his choices are really his own and not dictated by his parents and teachers, or by his other associates. So regeneration begins in the will and works down into the thought and then into the act. Regeneration is not our work, but the Lord's work in us as we prepare the way. It is like the growth of a plant after we have prepared the ground and planted the seed in it.

There are two parts to the charge given to Joshua as the Israelites lay encamped by the Jordan. He is told to be "strong and of a good courage"; and he is to do according to all the law of Moses, not to depart from it "to the right hand or to the left," and to "meditate therein day and night." This is the way in which our regeneration must go forward, constantly seeking new truth from the Word of God, obeying it, and fighting bravely with full belief that the Lord is present and helping us.

For the meaning of verses 12 to 15 of our chapter, look up Numbers 32:1-6 and 13-22. Notice the difference between this occupation of the Jordan valley by the two and a half tribes, and Lot's settling there in the time of Abraham. In the new settlement the same country is chosen, but the fighting men first go forward with the rest and help to conquer the Holy Land. When we have recognized and overcome the evils which lie deep within us, we can safely enjoy the things of this world.

