
=== Adult

The quotations given with the Adult notes should provide ample discussion material. We shall continue our consideration of Samuel in lessons which follow, but his relation to the proposed king — the fact that he continued to be the Lord's prophet, so recognized by all the people — should be stressed.

---
Our spiritual life advances in cycles. Our lesson for today marks another beginning — a transition from one cycle to another — characterized by the familiar choice of truth rather than good. In this story we do not have the simple picture of the older and younger brothers. The choice is more subtle and complex, for Samuel retains his actual control even though the king apparently supplants him.

We are all very familiar with the story of Samuel's birth and call, but we do not always stop to think of his actual position in the Bible story. Because his story does not begin in the book of Judges, we are likely to forget that he was actually the last Judge. And because we think of the period of the Kings as immediately following that of the Judges, we forget that Samuel overlapped the period of Kings, that he lived to anoint the second King, David, and that the second book of Samuel takes us almost to the end of David's reign. This is an illustration of the fact that changes are never sudden either in the Word or in life. They may sometimes seem sudden to us, but on the Lord's part there is always foresight and preparation, and the Lord helps us to adjust to new conditions.

It is rather curious that, in spite of the fact that two books of the Word bear Samuel's name, there are only a few brief mentions of Samuel in the writings. We are told in @AE 750[21] that Moses and Samuel "in the representative sense signify the Word." This confirms a point which seems obvious from the letter, since Samuel was Judge over the whole nation, whereas his predecessors — who, as we remember, represent particular truths — were local Judges. We also recognize easily from the letter that Samuel's influence was religious rather than military, although he was the spokesman of the Lord in the battles fought during his lifetime.

The writings do give us, however, in two places a clear picture of Samuel's function. In @AC 6148 we read: "The Divine good was represented by priests, and the Divine truth by kings ... In the Ancient Representative Church the priesthood and the royalty were joined together in one person, because the good and truth which proceed from the Lord are united, and in heaven with the angels are also joined together ... Moreover as a representative church was instituted with the posterity of Jacob, therefore in one person conjointly was represented the Divine good and the Divine truth which proceed united from the Lord. But on account of the wars and of the idolatry of that people, these two offices were at first divided, and they who ruled over the people were called 'leaders', and afterward 'judges'; while they who officiated in holy things were called 'priests', and were of the seed of Aaron, and Levites. Yet afterward these two offices were joined together in one person, as in Eli and in Samuel." It is evident, therefore, that Samuel, although not a Levite, was considered a priest as well as a Judge. We know from 1 Samuel 3:20 that he was early recognized by all the people to be a "prophet of the Lord."

The period of the Judges culminated in Samuel. The people, after a bitter experience during about two hundred years of trying to get along without divine leadership, had finally come back to united worship of the Lord. Samuel, as we know, was brought up in the tabernacle at Shiloh, and his later home was at Ramah, also in the center of the land. From there he went out to other towns in a circuit to judge the people. Yet we recall that in Samuel's childhood the ark had been taken out of the tabernacle and had been captured by the Philistines in battle; and that although it had been returned to Israel, it had never been replaced in the tabernacle. This suggests the hollowness of the worship which the people now offered. This is confirmed in the continuation of @AC 6148[5]:

"But because the people were of such a character that a representative church could not be instituted among them, but only the representative of a church, by reason of the idolatrous disposition which prevailed among them, therefore it was permitted that the two offices should be separated, and that the Lord as to Divine truth should be represented by kings, and as to Divine good by priests. That this was done at the will of the people, and not of the Lord's good pleasure, is manifest from the word of Jehovah unto Samuel (1 Samuel 8:7 ff. and 12:19, 20)." The people wanted to worship the Lord not in childlike trust and obedience — which the sole leadership of Samuel represented — but in order that they might be "like all the nations" and overcome their enemies by their armed strength.

@AC 6148[6] gives us further light on our chapter: "Divine truth separated from Divine good condemns everyone; whereas Divine truth united to Divine good saves. For from Divine truth man is condemned to hell, but by the Divine good he is taken out therefrom, and is elevated into heaven. Salvation is of mercy, thus from the Divine good; but damnation is when man refuses mercy, and thus rejects from himself the Divine good; wherefore he is left to judgment from truth." And @AE 2015[11] (see below) uses this same thought to explain why the Lord told Samuel to tell the people "the manner of a king" they would have if they persisted in their desire. All the demands which are mentioned in verses 11 to 18 of our chapter picture the demands which truth separated from good makes upon us.

The explanation of this chapter given us in these passages from the writings is given as to the internal historical sense, showing the application of the chapter to the history of the Jewish Church, but it is not difficult to transfer this explanation to our individual lives. We have seen that the period of the Judges pictures the time in our lives when we believe ourselves to be established in the regenerate life and think we can rest on our oars and enjoy ourselves without further struggle against temptation. The results are disastrous and in time we have to return to the admission of our own evils and weakness and our dependence upon the Lord. This admission, in its first form, takes on the appearance of a return to our childhood state of simple trust and obedience. Samuel, the Lord's prophet, becomes our leader. But we are not actually children. The time of the innocence of ignorance is long past and we still have a long way to go before we attain the innocence of wisdom. We want to see and understand for ourselves the religious principle we shall follow. And the Lord never interferes with our freedom of choice. He adapts His unseen government to our wayward state and lets us have our king, but with a clear warning of the sacrifices which will be required of us by the principle He foresees we will adopt.

