
=== Intermediate

The important lesson for this class is the meaning of the transition from the period of the Judges to that of the Kings, with Samuel as the connecting link. The teacher may draw on the Senior and Adult notes for material to illustrate the correspondence of a king.

---
You remember the story of Samuel. His parents were among the few faithful souls who still went regularly to worship at the tabernacle in Shiloh. Hannah, Samuel's mother, prayed there for a son and promised that if her prayer was granted, she would devote the child to the Lord. So when Samuel was still a little boy, she brought him to Shiloh and gave him to Eli, the old high priest, to bring up in the service of the tabernacle. Then in the night the Lord called Samuel, and gave him a prophetic message for Eli. And as Samuel grew up, the Lord continued to be with him, so that "all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord."

Samuel, therefore, unlike most of the Judges who had preceded him, was a religious and not a military leader and was accepted by the whole nation. You remember that the Judges represent particular truths recalled to our minds by the Lord to meet particular temptations. But this last Judge, Samuel, represents the Word as a whole. We may go along for some time turning to the Lord for help only when we find ourselves in real trouble, but the troubles pile up, and we must finally come to see that we can have no safety and peace unless every part of our life looks to the Lord for direction. Under Samuel the life of the nation became centered again in the tabernacle at Shiloh.

Samuel ends one period and begins another. His life ties the two together. The Lord is always at work in our lives preparing us for the changes He sees are coming. It was necessary for the Israelites to go back for a time to dependence upon an individual who obviously spoke for the Lord just as Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, and Joshua had done. So when we, after the period of indifference pictured by the time of the Judges, come back to wholehearted worship of the Lord, we at first are satisfied with the simple dependence and obedience which we knew as children. But this satisfaction does not last. We are grown up now, and, although we are willing to admit that we need the Lord's constant direction, we want to understand and adopt that direction in our own way. This is asking Samuel for a king.

A king represents truth ruling — not a single truth but a great general principle under which everything in our lives can be organized. The Israelites told Samuel the reason why they wanted a king:

"That we also may be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles." All the other nations had kings. Everyone has some general principle which rules his life. It may be a selfish principle such as, "Everyone must take care of himself first," or even, "The world owes me a living." Such principles are represented by the kings of the enemies of Israel in the Holy Land. The Israelites wanted a king who could put up a strong opposition to their enemies. They were not content just to obey the Lord's commands from day to day as they received them from the lips of Samuel. That was why the Lord told Samuel, "they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me." If we are faithful, the time comes when we are satisfied to look to the Lord as little children look to a wise and loving parent for daily guidance, but this state does not often come in our youth.

The Lord understands us all the way and does the best He can for us from state to state. He told Samuel to let the people have a king, but we shall see that, all unknown to them, He directed their choice so that they would finally learn by experience what kind of ruler they really should have. One of the cardinal teachings of the New Church is that the Lord never interferes with our freedom of choice. He tells us plainly what is right and He warns us of all the things we should avoid, and then He leaves us free to choose His way or ours. So He told Samuel to tell the people "the manner of the king" that should reign over them, and Samuel did tell them just how much the king would demand of them. When we choose a certain principle — no matter how good — to rule our lives, we must expect to have to give up many things we have enjoyed. Truth is a hard taskmaster until we have learned to love it. We may have to make over our whole way of life. And then we may find that our first understanding of the truth was faulty and that we have made mistakes which add to our problems. We shall study this possibility further in future lessons.

