
=== Junior

This is a good opportunity to review briefly the history of the Israelites, with emphasis on their type of government, and it is also possible to relate this changing government to the life of the individual, as a preparation for later instruction in the spiritual sense of the Word. While we do not go deeply into the spiritual sense with the Juniors, foretastes of it can often be given.

The last of the Judges was Samuel, and he was very different from the others. He was not a military leader. By the time he was born the Israelites were beginning to realize that they could not get along without the Lord. Some of the people, of course, had been faithful all the time. There are always good, sensible people who remember that the Lord is wiser than men. So the worship had gone on in the tabernacle at Shiloh all through the centuries. At the time when Samuel was born, the high priest was a very old man named Eli. You have had part of the story of Samuel before and so you may remember how, before he was born, his mother promised that she would give him to the Lord, and how she brought him, when he was still a little boy, to Shiloh and gave him to Eli to bring up. And you remember how the Lord called Samuel in the night and gave him an important message for Eli.

1 Samuel 3:19-20 tells us: "And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord." So Samuel came to be recognized as Judge not just in one part of the land but by all the people; he was a very good and just man. Read 1 Samuel 12:1-5. But in our lesson for today, which is in the time of Samuel's old age, we find that the people are becoming restless under his leadership. The last few verses of chapter 7 tell us that he lived at Ramah, which is a city not far from Jerusalem, and went regularly in circuit to Bethel and Gilgal and Mizpeh to judge the people, very much as our circuit court judges do today. But he could not cover the whole land in his own circuit.

Whom did he make judges under him?

Where did his sons judge?

What wrong things did they do?

What did the people ask Samuel to do?

Was Samuel willing to give them what they asked?

What did the Lord tell him?

What did Samuel tell the people a king would do to them?

Did the people change their minds?

Let us think back to the beginnings of the Hebrew nation. You remember that their first leader was Abraham. Abraham heard the voice of the Lord telling him to leave his home in Ur of the Chaldees and go to the land of Canaan and establish himself there. After him, Isaac and Jacob both received confirmation directly from the Lord of their right to govern their people. During the long sojourn in Egypt the Israelites had no leader of their own, but were under the rule of Pharaoh.

Who was their next leader?

How was he chosen?

Who followed Moses?

Did Joshua also have a call from the Lord?

How were the Judges chosen?

How was Samuel himself chosen?

You can see why Samuel was displeased at the people's request for a king, and also why the Lord says to him: "They have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them." They wanted someone from among themselves, whom they might accept freely, to rule them instead of someone put over them by the Lord. They wanted to be like other people.

This long history is really a picture of your own life. All through your infancy and childhood and the time when you are growing up your life is controlled by others, by those chosen by God — your parents, guardians, and teachers. But there comes a time when you want to be ruled by your own judgment and not by someone else. This is like the time of the Judges. Then after a while you find that your own judgment often gets you into trouble and that it is safer to listen to the Lord. This is the time of Samuel. But after all you are not a little child anymore and you want to stand on your own feet and choose how to govern your own life. You mean to be good but you want to understand and choose the principles by which you will be led. This is asking for a king. Soon we shall see what kind of king the Israelites first chose to obey.

