
=== Notes for Parents

We learned recently that it was said of the time of the Judges:

"In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes." This led to weakness, to compromising with the enemies in the land, and often to defeat at their hands. Finally, however, a Judge was raised up who was devoted to the service of the Lord. Samuel was promised to the Lord by his mother before he was born, and was brought up in the tabernacle at Shiloh under the direction of the aged high priest Eli. While he was still a young boy, the Lord called him in the night and gave him a prophetic message for Eli. And as he grew, the Lord continued to be with him so obviously that "all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord." So Samuel, who was the last of the Judges, was a religious rather than a military leader, and was recognized throughout the land instead of in just one part of it, as his predecessors had been. He lived at Ramah in the center of the land, and from there went about from place to place much as our circuit court judges do today.

But our lesson for today tells us that when Samuel became old and had to delegate some of his duties to others, the people became restless under his direction and asked him to give them a king. They were never long satisfied with the government of their unseen God, but wanted to be like the people around them. Samuel quite naturally was displeased, but the Lord told him to let the people have their king, only first to tell them plainly how many sacrifices a king would require of them.

Most of us mean to be good people. We believe there is a God and that we ought to do right. And most of us believe that the Bible is in some way the Word of God. This is like the people's recognition of Samuel as the Lord's prophet. But this world and its demands seem very important to us, just as they did to the Israelites, and we cannot quite be satisfied to go on just obeying the commandments from day to day without seeing just what they are accomplishing for us. We want some big striking principle to follow which will make us powerful with those around us in the world. This is asking for a king. And the Lord never interferes with our freedom of choice. He understands all our weaknesses and does His best to lead us in the right direction, warning us of the difficulties ahead, and helping us to learn even by our own mistakes.

