
=== Senior

The meaning of asking for a king comes close to the thinking of the Seniors. Stress the correspondence of the leadership of truth separated from good and the hardships it imposes. Prepare the way for later lessons by suggesting that we may find that our first understanding of truth is not altogether reliable. Be sure they understand the continuing function of Samuel.

---
Samuel was dedicated to the Lord even before he was born, and while still a small boy was brought by his mother Hannah to Shiloh to be brought up in the service of the tabernacle under the direction of the old high priest Eli. When the Lord called Samuel in the night and gave him a prophetic message for Eli, Eli recognized that Samuel was the Lord's messenger, and we are told that as Samuel grew up, "all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the Lord." So he came to be Judge over all the nation instead of over one tribe or another, as his predecessors had been. His home was in the central part of the land at Ramah, about midway between Shiloh and the city which was later to be Jerusalem, and like some of our judges today he went about in a circuit to hear and judge the people.

For a time under Samuel the Israelites went back to simple acceptance of the Lord's direction as it came to them through the individual chosen by the Lord to lead them. The earlier Judges represented particular truths needed to meet particular temptations. Samuel represents the Word as a whole. When we, after trying out our own spiritual judgment and strength and finding them inadequate, return to dependence upon the Lord, we are content for a time to accept His direction from day to day as in childhood we accepted the direction of our parents. This is, of course, the ideal attitude and the one which we must eventually adopt. "Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein." But when we are in the full strength of our young manhood and womanhood, our natural disposition is not satisfied to obey the Lord as if we were children. We want to participate actively in the determination of our spiritual as well as of our worldly destiny. This is pictured in the Bible story by the Israelites asking for a king.

Swedenborg tells us that the office of divine good in our lives is represented by a priest and the office of divine truth by a king. Good and truth are one in the Lord and proceed from Him as one. They are meant to be received by us as one, as they were united in the person of Samuel. But because of our tendency to exalt self and to think in terms of this world, we will not steadily receive them in this way. Truth is not always what we want it to be. We do not always love to do as truth teaches, even though we think we want the truth. Again we have to learn by experience.

The Lord knows our nature and makes provision for it. So, although the people's rejection of Samuel — the Lord's prophet - was really a rejection of the Lord, as our chapter tells us, the Lord told Samuel to let the people have their king, and we shall find that He knew the kind of king the people would first be willing to obey.

The separation of the office of king from that of priest marks the beginning of another period in the history of the Jews, and you remember that in each period we have seen a representative of this same separation of good and truth or charity and faith. The Lord recognizes that because of our nature we must be led by truth until we come to love it. And truth is a hard master. So the Lord told Samuel to tell the people what treatment they must expect from a king. Whatever principle — good or bad — we may choose as governor of our life, we have to make many sacrifices in its service. All the things which Samuel mentions in verses 11 to 18 of our chapter represent such sacrifices — unwilling adjustments which we shall have to make in our feelings and thoughts and conduct to meet the demands of principle. For truth is hard and unbending, and condemns what is contrary to it. Read Matthew 19:24-26.

Samuel lived possibly another thirty years after he anointed the first king of Israel and anointed the second king also. He continued to be the religious leader of the nation through whom the Lord spoke to the people. This was a provision of divine providence over the Israelites, and it represents the provision which the Lord makes for our protection and guidance through the difficult years when we are finding our way to a true understanding of our religious principles. Samuel is the hold which the simple trust of our innocent childhood retains upon us after we come to adult years.

