
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the details of the entry into Jerusalem is the important lesson for this class, especially the correspondence of the donkey and what our "natural reason" is. The Intermediates are at the age when the natural reason seems the arbiter of everything, and a lesson in Sunday school can very well help them to see its limitations and the necessity of subjecting it to the Lord's direction.

The special lessons for Palm Sunday and Easter seem to interrupt our orderly study of the Gospel of Mark, but we may find that they help us to understand better some of the lessons we shall have after Easter.

We all know that the Sunday before Easter — Palm Sunday — is celebrated in the church in commemoration of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem at the beginning of the last week of His life on earth, and that the week between Palm Sunday and Easter is called "Holy Week." During that last week the Lord taught in the temple, celebrated the Passover with His disciples, was betrayed, seized, tried, and crucified, lay in the tomb from Friday night to Sunday morning, and then rose from the dead. During this week we should think about all these things and try to understand a little of what the Lord did for us and of what we must do for Him if we are to be His true followers.

On Palm Sunday the Lord entered Jerusalem as king and judge.

The Gospel of Mark speaks only of His riding upon a "colt," but the other Gospels make clear that it was a donkey's colt. This had been prophesied in Zechariah 9:9. The people knew the prophecy and they also knew that it was the custom for kings and judges to ride upon mules and donkeys. Read Judges 5:9-10 and 1 Kings 1:33, 44. There are several other passages in the Old Testament which testify to the same custom. Such customs were not without meaning, for we know that ancient Jewish history was directed by divine providence in such a way that it could be used for the writing of the Word. In our lesson on Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac, we learned the correspondence of the donkey. It pictures our natural reason, that faculty which enables us to live and accomplish our tasks in the world. It is a very necessary and useful faculty but it needs to be kept subject to a higher power, the understanding of what this life is given us for. We all tend to use our natural reason to get things for ourselves. When we are asked to do something which will take time and effort, the first thing we are likely to think of is: What will I get out of it? Will it be fun? Will it interfere with my doing other things I like to do? Our natural selfishness keeps us from ever fully controlling this tendency of our natural reason. The Lord was the only one who really mastered it. Notice that when He sent the disciples to bring Him the donkey, He said, "ye shall find a colt tied, whereon never man sat." Then notice that when the disciples brought the colt, they "cast their garments on him" for the Lord to sit on. Garments picture the truths in which the mind is clothed. The Lord's garments are the letter of the Word and the various senses within it. Our garments are the ideas of truth we have in our minds. We must make these subject to the Lord. So to symbolize this the people also cast their garments before the Lord for Him to ride over. The branches of the trees picture the principles according to which we conduct our everyday life. The Lord must rule these, too. We learn from the Gospel of John that the branches were palm branches, which picture our knowledge from the letter of the Word that the Lord is our savior. If we let our daily lives be governed and directed by the thought that only obedience to the Lord's truth can lead us to a heavenly character, we are casting palm branches before the Lord. The people of the Lord's day did not know what their action really meant, but again in following an established custom they knew that they were acknowledging Jesus as the promised Messiah. The same acknowledgment was in their use of the word Hosanna, which means "Save, we pray thee."

The people welcomed the Lord as savior and king, but very soon they discovered that He was not the kind of king they wanted and had expected Him to be. They wanted a king who would overthrow the power of Rome and restore their nation to a place of special prominence. There are two other incidents in our chapter which teach us this. One of these is the cleansing of the temple by the Lord (verses 15-17). When He said they had made His house a "den of thieves," He meant that they were using their religion as a means to get things for themselves. We do this today if we go to church to make people think we are good or just to "get in" with someone whose acquaintance we think will be of advantage to us. The other incident — that of the fig tree (verses 12-14 and 20-21) - teaches that although the people had the knowledge of what was right, they were bringing forth no genuine goodness in their daily lives. The fig tree represents the natural plane of our lives, its leaves the truths proper to this natural plane, and its fruit natural good works. In the sermon on the mount (Matthew 7:19) the Lord says, "Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire."

The people who welcomed the Lord on Palm Sunday crucified Him on Good Friday. We wonder how this could have been possible. But we may do the very same thing. Did you ever hear something in Sunday school which you saw was true and right and then afterward, when you tried to obey it, found that it did not seem to "get you anything," and therefore you put it out of your mind? We welcome the Lord as our king when we acknowledge that we ought to live as He wants us to live. Then if we keep on trying faithfully to obey Him, we are like the disciples who really loved Him, but if we give up trying as soon as we find that what we ought to do is not what we want to do, we are like the crowd who turned so quickly against Him and put Him to death.

There is something else in this chapter which has puzzled many people. In verses 22-24 does the Lord really mean that if we have faith enough, we can move mountains and get anything we pray for? The trouble is that people have come to think of "faith" as something just in the mind, to think that merely saying, "I believe in the Lord," is really believing in Him. Their own practice in things other than religion should teach them better. When they have faith in a doctor, they consult him often and obey his instructions and take his medicine. When they no longer are willing to obey him, they say it is because they have lost faith in him. It is the same with faith in God. If there is no obedience, there is actually no faith. If we have true faith in the Lord, we shall try constantly to find out what He wants us to do and we shall do it, and we shall not pray for or try to do things which are contrary to His order. The mountains which we can move are the things which stand in the way of our spiritual progress, the selfish feelings and thoughts and the bad habits which we have to "get over." See how we use correspondence in our everyday language. Often if we think just what we mean by an expression like "to get over" something, it will help us to read the Bible with more lively interest and understanding.

---
Basic Correspondences
--- 
garments = truths
trees, branches = general principles, principles used to govern our day-to-day life
mountains (as obstacles) = selfish feelings and thoughts we have to "get over"

