
=== Junior

Have the class look up and read the Scripture references in their notes, and try to show them something of what was in the minds of the people who welcomed the Lord and why they so soon turned against Him. Make the connection between this and our own experience and urge the children to think about it during Holy Week as a preparation for Easter.

How many Gospels are there?

What are the Gospels about?

We interrupt our regular course for the special Palm Sunday and Easter lessons, and then go back to our schedule after Easter.

What do we celebrate on Easter Sunday?

We remember that there were many prophecies in the Old Testament which pointed to the coming of the Messiah. A few of them even foretold some of the details of His life on earth. Read Psalm 22:1-18 and Isaiah 53. These tell especially about the end of His life. The Lord knew that He had to pass through death to show us the whole way of life. He had to let men do their very worst to Him so that we might understand that our real life is not affected by what others do to us but depends on what we do ourselves. So when He told His disciples that He would be put to death at this time and they tried to persuade Him not to go to Jerusalem for the Passover, He merely answered that it would be wrong for Him not to complete the work He came into the world to do.

What did the Passover commemorate?

What kind of animal did the Lord ride into Jerusalem on?

We learn from the other Gospels that the colt was a donkey, not a horse. It was the custom for kings and judges to ride upon mules and donkeys. Read Judges 5:10, 10:3-4, 12:13-14, 2 Samuel 16:1-2; and the specific prophecy of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem upon a donkey, which is found in Zechariah 9:9. When the people saw the Lord riding upon a donkey, they understood that He was declaring Himself to be the Messiah, their king and judge, and they accepted and acclaimed Him.

What had the disciples put upon the donkey for the Lord to sit on?

What did the people spread before Him?

From what kind of tree did they cut the branches (John 12:13)? 

What did the people cry?

Hosanna means, "Save, we pray thee."

This was a triumphal journey. But we learn from many things in the Gospels that most of the crowd who welcomed the Lord imagined that He was coming to set Himself up as their earthly king, to deliver them from the Roman rule and make their nation once more a leading one in the world. They very soon found that this was not the kind of king He came to be. His kingdom is in the hearts and minds of men. Read His conversation with Pilate, the Roman governor, in John 18:33-37. The people who welcomed Him on Palm Sunday did not want this kind of king. So they turned against Him only a few days later, and put Him to death.

We call the week from Palm Sunday to Easter "Holy Week."

The Lord spent Monday and Tuesday teaching in the temple, but at night He went out to the little village of Bethany on the slope of the Mount of Olives not far from Jerusalem. He had friends there with whom He could lodge — Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead.

What did He do in the temple before He began to teach there?

What happened to the fig tree on which He found no fruit?

Some people cannot understand why He made the fig tree wither, but if we remember that "fruit" is the symbol of good deeds, we can see that He was merely using the fig tree to teach His disciples and us that anyone who does not do good to others is spiritually dead. Everything the Lord did while He lived in the world is a parable, teaching something that happens in our souls.

The Gospel of Mark does not tell us about the Lord's Prayer, as Matthew and Luke do, but in this chapter we are given an explanation of one of the petitions in the Lord's Prayer.

Which one is it?

The chapter also gives us an example of the way in which the Lord often answered the charges of the scribes and Pharisees — by asking them a question they could not or would not answer. They never could get the better of Him, of course, and that made them hate Him all the more.

On Thursday of that week the Lord came into the city with His disciples to eat the feast of the Passover, and it was at that feast that He instituted the Holy Supper, about which we shall have a lesson later this year. After the feast He went out to the Garden of Gethsemane to pray. There His enemies seized Him, and the next day He was crucified — only five days from the triumphal entry into Jerusalem! This seems very sudden and strange, but it really was not. The resentment of the scribes and Pharisees had been building up for three years until it suddenly ended in unreasoning violence. Does this ever happen to us? Do you ever let a feeling of dislike and resentment against someone work and work in your mind and heart until the temptation to do something bad to him becomes too strong for you? The disciples and the few good people in Jerusalem were not strong enough or brave enough to oppose the determination of the Lord's enemies. Do you know that every one of us has in his own soul ideas and feelings that correspond to both the disciples and the scribes and Pharisees? We have our good intentions and we have our selfish and worldly desires. Let us think this week about the last few days of the Lord's life on earth, and try very hard to strengthen our good intentions and to condemn and put away those selfish things which are always trying to destroy the Lord's life in our souls.

