
=== Notes for Parents

Today in the churches is known as Palm Sunday and as the beginning of Holy Week, commemorating the last week of the Lord's life on earth. It was the week of the Jewish Passover, and the Lord and His disciples had come up to celebrate this feast. On Sunday, the beginning of the week, the Lord entered Jerusalem riding on a donkey, as was the custom for kings and judges. He was acclaimed by crowds of people who cast their garments and palm branches in His path and hailed Him as their king and savior. During the first two days of the week He taught in the temple, having first driven out the money—changers and sellers of doves who had brought their business into the very temple court itself. At night He went out to Bethany and lodged at the home of His friends Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus, whom He had raised from the dead. On Wednesday He did not go into the city because the people had begun to turn against Him. They thought that the Messiah, when He came, would set Himself up as their earthly king, overthrow the power of Rome, and make them a great nation again. That was why they hailed Him on Palm Sunday. But when they found that He had come to save them from sin instead of from Rome, from their spiritual enemies instead of from their earthly enemies, they rejected Him.

On Thursday evening He came into Jerusalem again and ate the Passover with His disciples. We have probably all seen copies of the famous painting which depicts this "Last Supper." It was then that He instituted the "Lord's Supper," the Holy Communion, which in the Christian Church takes the place of the Passover. After supper, knowing that Judas had betrayed Him, He went out into the Garden of Gethsemane to pray. There He was taken by His enemies and brought to trial, and on Friday He was crucified. His body was placed in the tomb and the tomb was sealed.

This is in brief the story of Holy Week. We should think this week as we prepare for Easter of all that the Lord's coming has meant to the world and of what it means to us. And we should ask ourselves how far we are like the people who welcomed the Lord as their king on Sunday and crucified Him on Friday. For we are all like them sometimes. We say we believe in the Lord, but when His way is not the way we want to follow, we put Him out of our minds.

