
=== Notes for Parents

We are beginning the period in Israel's history when the nation attained its largest dominion and its greatest importance among nations. We remember that importance in the world was what they were looking for when they asked Samuel to give them a king. Through a series of the three great kings — Saul, David, and Solomon — they did achieve their goal, but they had to learn by bitter experience that security and happiness do not come from worldly power.

Saul was their first king, chosen for them by the Lord because He knew that the only kind of king who would impress them at that time was one like Saul. Saul stood head and shoulders above all the other men, and they respected him for his apparent strength. When we are young, we too judge by the outward appearance of a thing.

Saul had the strength and the weakness of youth. He was brave and eager, but he was also self-confident, hasty, and impatient. He won his first battle, and it turned his head so that he never again was willing to follow exactly the Lord's instructions as they came to him through Samuel, although he and all the people knew that Samuel was the Lord's prophet. Our chapter today tells of his act of disobedience, which finally cost him the kingdom. The Amalekites were a wily foe. When they first attacked Israel in the wilderness at Rephidim, the Israelites conquered them only because Moses went up on the mountain and with the support of Aaron and Hur kept his hands lifted to the Lord until the sun set.

All our ability to resist temptation — brought on by our inward foes — comes from the Lord. When we forget this and trust in our own goodness and wisdom, we often find that our judgment of what is best to do is at variance with the Lord's commands. Like Saul, we do not want to give up things which seem useful and pleasant to us even when the Lord has told us to do so. We do not strike at the root of our trouble, which is self-love and self-satisfaction. In the language of parable, we keep king Agag alive.

