
=== Adult

If there are parents of young children in the class, the first subject to be discussed should be the importance of bringing children up to serve the Lord. Then speak of the state into which the tabernacle worship had fallen, and call attention to its counterpart in the time of the Lord and in our own time. Finally the doctrine of remains and the necessity of simple obedience as a basis for all religious progress will make a good discussion topic. Our modern world is too much given to excusing the breaking of the commandments.

---
With the first book of Samuel we come to a new stage in the history of the church or of the man who is trying to live the regenerate life. The wars in the book of Judges picture various temptations which assail those who have found their homes in the Holy Land, that is, those who have become settled in the desire and practice of living according to divine law. These temptations are both external and internal and take many forms. We yield to them at first almost unconsciously and they grow upon us until we find ourselves subject to them and realize that we must ask the Lord's help in taking active measures against them. In the book of Judges the state of the people became worse and worse, until, for example, the tribe of Benjamin, which represents spiritual or interior truth, became perverted and was almost destroyed. So sometimes we allow ourselves to "backslide" through constant yielding to small or subtle temptations until we find ourselves in a bad spiritual state and almost robbed of the sense of the internal meaning of life which makes conjunction with the Lord possible. A new beginning must be made if we are to be saved. We must return for a time to a condition of simple trust and obedience and allow this to lead us to a new peak of spiritual living.

The story of the child Samuel has always been one of the best loved of the Bible stories. Parents should realize that all children are loaned to them by the Lord to prepare for His service, and should dedicate them to that service, as Hannah dedicated Samuel. And children should see in Samuel a beautiful example of simple trust and obedience and willing service. There are also many similarities between the early life of Samuel and that of the Lord, even to the expression, "And the child Samuel grew on, and was in favor both with the Lord and also with men." (1 Samuel 2:26) Compare this with Luke 2:52.

But the story has a wider application than that to physical childhood. Our childhood states of innocence, trust, and obedience are covered up as we grow older, but they are not lost. The Lord stores them up deep within us as the "remains" of which we read in the writings. No matter how far we may have wandered from them, if we realize the barrenness of our state and look to the Lord for a new birth as Hannah did, promising new consecration, the childhood states can be revived in us and lead us to new and higher spiritual development. This is very plainly told us by the Lord when He says: "Verily, I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven." (Matthew 18:3,4) Samuel's early ministry in the tabernacle is a picture of our return to a humble state of mind, in which we read the Word in simplicity, enter into the services of worship with genuine sincerity, and look to the church for guidance, as Samuel looked to Eli. Then we put ourselves in a state in which the Lord can speak to us, and prepare the way for new growth. "And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him."

The picture of the little Samuel is so striking and so touching that the dark background against which it stands out is often overlooked. Eli, the high priest, the descendant of Aaron, is an old man and his sight is dim. He has turned over the conduct of the tabernacle worship to his sons, Hophni and Phinehas, who are "sons of Belial" and who "knew not the Lord." They profaned the sacrifices of the people by taking more than their due portion and by taking it even before the sacrifice was made to the Lord. "Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord; for men abhorred the offering of the Lord." (1 Samuel 2:17)

Eli is warned by a "man of God" that the priesthood shall be taken from his house. He has remonstrated with his sons, but has not exerted himself to put a stop to their evil practices. He is therefore judged "because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not." This is a picture of a state in which worship is being degraded by being used for self-interest and self-exaltation. Although the high priest in us — the inner dictate which relates us to the Lord - sees the evil and condemns it, it does not take steps to correct it. It has become dim of sight and is no longer able to receive directly the voice of the Lord. In 1 Samuel 2:17, quoted above, there is the suggestion of the harm which such a state does to others as well as to ourselves. Sometimes people have been turned against the church by finding self-seeking and hypocrisy in some of its members. Our duty to keep our worship sincere and to live according to the teachings of the church is not for our own salvation alone. The Lord's service requires of us constant watchfulness and ever-renewed devotion. We must be on our guard against the thought that we are "saved" and cannot go astray as others may. The Lord, in the letter of the Word, had promised the priesthood to Aaron and his seed forever, but the descendants of either of Aaron's two sons, Eleazar and Ithamar, were eligible (cf. 1 Chronicles 24:1-3). Now the Lord takes it from the house of Eli: "I said indeed that thy house and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now the Lord saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed." (1 Samuel 2:30)

This degenerate state of worship is contrasted directly with the simple, obedient service of Samuel, to whom the Lord can speak. The child Samuel is called by the Lord in the night three times. The night is the state of the church at that time. Three, as we know, represents a full state in which all three planes of life are conjoined. This teaches us an important lesson. We may read the Word and take in its literal meaning through our physical senses and stop there; this is the first call — we think the message is from men. But we may go on to meditate upon it and come to see it with our rational mind; this is the second call. We may still imagine we are merely hearing the voice of the church. It is not our will that is reached as yet. But if we hear the third call, we may then know we are hearing in the Word the voice of the Lord speaking directly to us, and that we should answer, as did Samuel, "Speak; for thy servant heareth."

Hearing represents obedience. In the story, Samuel was given his name because his mother felt that God had heard her prayer. The name Samuel means "God hath heard." Hearing — obedience — is the keynote of Samuel's whole life and work. We recall that Moses also represents obedience to the law, but he is obedience in its first aspects, when it is prompted somewhat by the desire for worldly honor and rewards, and at best by a sense of duty. The Israelites have come a long way since the time of Moses. They have gained the Holy Land. But in their satisfaction with their success they have allowed themselves to forget the fundamental requirement — obedience. They had to be brought back to obedience before they could progress further. It is a lesson we all need again and again.

