
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The emphasis with this class should be on the correspondence of "hearing" and of the three calls. The necessity for obedience and sincerity in worship has an appeal for young people, and their thought should be directed along these lines. This story of Samuel is so familiar to most Christian children that its deeper lessons are likely to be neglected.

---
In the book of Judges the ark and the tabernacle are not once mentioned. This, too, is natural in a time when people were looking to themselves instead of to the Lord. But with Samuel, the last of the Judges, we suddenly return to the tabernacle.$ And we find that it is still set up in Shiloh, that there is still a high priest of the line of Aaron, that the tabernacle rites are still being carried out, and that there are still some people in the land who come faithfully to the tabernacle to offer sacrifices and to worship the true God. This reminds us of the condition of the Jews hundreds of years later at the time of the Lord's birth, and there are a number of things in Samuel's story which remind us of the early years of the Lord's earthly life.

[*There are many textual problems in the books of Samuel, not the least of which pertains to the worship structure. In both 1 Samuel 1:9 and 3:3 it is identified as a "temple" rather than a "tabernacle," whereas in 1 Samuel 2:22 it is clearly called a "tent." There are, indeed, so many glaring inconsistencies in the letter that the teacher would be ill-advised to overstress the literal details. -Editor]

Read 1 Samuel 1:1-11. Verse 11 makes us think of an earlier Judge, Samson, for you remember that Samson also did not cut his hair and that his strength was in his hair. This part of Hannah's vow shows that Samuel, like Samson, was to be a Nazarite, one set apart for the service of God. In Numbers 6:1-21 we may read the laws governing one who had taken the vows of a Nazarite. Samson's strength pictures the power which comes from obedience to the commandments, for the hair represents the outmost or, in the case of a Judge or prophet, the letter of the Word. Samuel's power also came from obedience, but because his use was in the tabernacle, his strength was spiritual rather than physical, and was maintained to the end of his life; it produced results more important and far-reaching than those of Samson's physical victories. There is nothing in the story of Samson which indicates that he himself was impressed with his mission. But Samuel, even as a little child, heard the call of the Lord and gave willing obedience. To hear always means to obey.

The first high priest of the Jews was Aaron, and the high priesthood was always to go to one of his descendants. At this time the line of Aaron was being continued in Eli, and Eli himself was a good man. But his sons, Hophni and Phinehas, who should have been preparing to succeed him, were evil men, robbing the Lord of the offerings the people brought, and in this way discouraging the people from their worship of the Lord. Eli had been told of their misdeeds and had rebuked them, but had not the strength of mind to put a stop to their evil practices. In the same way, when we fall away from going to church and reading the Word, our religion becomes weakened and we do not take the firm steps necessary to restore it. Read the fourth chapter of 1 Samuel to see what happened to Eli and his sons.

Notice that in this time when the high priest was old and weak and his sons were corrupt and leading the people astray, the voice of the Lord came to a little child. Often in the Word we are told that we must become as little children. This means that when we have gone wrong through following our own ideas and desires, the first thing necessary is to return to a state of simple trust and obedience. Samuel was called three times before he recognized the voice of the Lord. The three calls picture hearing the Lord through our senses — that is, through reading the Word — with our minds, as we think about what we have read, and finally with our hearts, as we decide to obey the Lord.

Read the first verse of our chapter and then the last three verses.

Samuel's simple obedience restored the connection between the Lord and the Israelites. He was the only one of the Judges to be recognized as leader by all the people, and this was because they saw that the Lord had chosen him to be a prophet. His life began a new period of unification and development for the nation.

