
=== Junior

This is a good opportunity to see what the Juniors remember about the tabernacle and the ark. Remind them that the Lord promised to speak to the people from the mercy seat above the ark. Then read the first and last verses of our chapter for today, and use this as the basis for describing the condition into which worship had fallen in the time of the Judges and what Samuel accomplished for his people even as a small boy. Have them look up all the Bible references.

Do you remember what was the characteristic of the period of the Judges? If you have forgotten, read Judges 17:6. This shows us why the ark and the tabernacle are not mentioned once in the book of Judges. When we think we are wise enough to decide for ourselves what is right and wrong, the Lord and the church seem to drop out of our minds. But they are really there all the time, hidden deep within our lives. In the same way, the ark and the tabernacle were still there in the very center of the Holy Land.

Where was the tabernacle at this time?

Who was the first high priest?

The high priest was always to be one of his descendants. Who was the high priest at the time of Samuel's birth?

Even though most of the people had turned to idol worship and forgotten the Lord, there were still some faithful ones who tried to keep the law of Moses and who went regularly to the tabernacle to worship. Samuel's parents were among these.

What were their names?

Their home was in Ramah, in the territory of Ephraim, to which tribe Elkanah belonged. In the first two chapters of 1 Samuel we learn that Hannah had no children and that, when they came up to the tabernacle for one of the feasts, she prayed the Lord for a child, and promised if she had one to give him to the service of the Lord. So, when Samuel was born she named him Samuel, which means "God hath heard," and as soon as he was old enough, she brought him to Eli to be brought up in the service of the tabernacle.

Eli at this time was an old man and becoming blind. His sons, Hophni and Phinehas, attended to the active duties of the priesthood. We learn how they profaned their high office by taking more than their fair shares of the offerings brought to the tabernacle and by taking the part allotted to them without consecrating it as they were supposed to do. Eli was told of their offenses and rebuked them, but he did not exercise his authority and put a stop to them. So he was warned by a prophet that he and his house should not continue to hold the priesthood. Eli was a good man, but weak.

Samuel was trained by Eli to do the things which a small boy could do to help around the tabernacle. Verse 15 of our chapter tells us one of his duties, and he also evidently waited upon Eli.

What was Samuel doing when the Lord called him?

What did he think at first?

How many times did the Lord call him?

What did Eli finally tell him to do?

Hearing pictures obedience. When your mother says, "Do you hear me?" you know that she means, "Mind!" Whenever in the Bible we read, "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear," we know that we are being urged to listen and obey.

What do you think it means when the Bible says, "Their ears they have stopped"?

Do we ever "stop" our ears when we do not want to obey?

Thus when Samuel said, "Speak; for thy servant heareth," it meant that he would obey the Lord, and we find that he always did obey the Lord even to the end of his life.

What did the Lord tell Samuel to say to Eli?

How did Eli receive the message?

To see how this message was fulfilled, read 1 Samuel 4:10-18.

Verses 19 to 21 of our chapter tell us that the people soon learned that Samuel had been chosen to be a prophet of the Lord. The whole country came to recognize him as their leader and Judge, and he was the last of the Judges.

