
=== Senior

A very good lesson for the Seniors is found in the effect of the sins of Eli's sons on the people who came to worship. They need to know that what they do is important to the church as well as to themselves. They have something to uphold. And yet they should be reminded that the truly good people came to worship anyway, and that we should not let other people's weaknesses come between us and the Lord. Strength of character is in the ability to do right no matter what others around us do.

The story of Samuel is familiar to us all. It is a beautiful picture of the orderly development of life. Every child should, like Samuel, be "brought early to the tabernacle" and devoted to the service of the Lord. We do this when we bring our little children to be baptized and promise to bring them up in the Christian life. A child should be taught to perform willingly and faithfully the little services which are within his power. Then he is prepared to hear the voice of the Lord when it comes to him, and to obey it.

A number of verses in our lesson are especially noteworthy.

"The word of the Lord was precious in those days; there was no open vision." Men had lost contact with the Lord through following their own ideas and desires. Eli's eyes "began to wax dim." The understanding of spiritual things was clouded. "Ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the Lord, where the ark of God was." This would refer to the seven—branched lampstand in the Holy Place, which was supposed to be kept perpetually burning as a symbol of the presence of the Lord's truth in the mind. Its being nearly gone out pictures the fact that this connection with the Lord's truth was almost broken.

And then the Lord spoke to Samuel in the night, and Samuel, after the third call, replied, "Speak; for thy servant heareth." The three calls picture the appeal of the Lord to the three planes of our minds: the outer life, the intelligence, and finally the will. Hearing represents obedience. In the night—time of general indifference, the voice came to one willing to obey. "And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of the Lord." Morning always pictures the beginning of a new spiritual state, and the opening of the doors of the house of the Lord represents the fact that through Samuel access to the Lord was once more given to the people.

We may think of Samuel as the beginning of our mature consciousness of our own weakness and need of the Lord. The first message given him was one of rebuke to Eli and his sons, which means that the first thing we must reform is our worship of the Lord. When, as young people, we have drifted away from the church and from reading the Word and praying, and have come to feel self-sufficient and to give ourselves credit for our good deeds — robbing the Lord as Hophni and Phinehas did — the Lord speaks to us through the remains of our childhood states of humility and innocence, showing us our folly and its inevitable consequences. We need to remember that the whole complex of thoughts and feelings represented by the ancient Hebrew people is present in us when we come to maturity — all the tendencies to materialism, to the worship of idols of one sort or another, to self-esteem and self-will, to profanation of holy things, to weak acquiescence in the sins of our times and companions. But Samuel is in us, too, as the voice of the Lord speaking through the Word planted in our memories in childhood. This is what we have to build on to begin the process of regeneration which is the work of our adult lives. Without this Samuel influence, the lamp of God would indeed go out in all of us.

Samuel was to be the last of the Judges, for he would anoint the first king and also the second. It is the recognition of our need to worship and obey the Lord in simple faith which leads us to adopt higher and higher principles for the guidance of our lives.

In several places in the Word Samuel is linked with Moses. Swedenborg tells us that they both represent the Word, as we know all the leaders and prophets in the Bible do. The Word is our leader, our judge, and our prophet, the voice of the Lord speaking to us. We recall that Moses in particular represents obedience to the Law in a period when obedience is a matter of duty, not of pleasure. Samuel also represents obedience, but the obedience to which we come back with all our hearts after an experience of the folly of trying to lead ourselves. Samuel was a prophet, the prophet of a transition period which introduced a development culminating in the glory of Solomon's kingdom.

