
=== Notes for Parents

The honor in which the prophet Daniel was held in Babylon is evidenced by the fact that he was kept in high position not only under Nebuchadnezzar but also under Darius the Mede and Cyrus the Persian, who in turn took over the throne of Babylon. The ancient Hebrews were not made slaves in Babylon, but settled there, and many of them became prosperous and lost their interest in their own country.

But in order to fulfill many prophecies the Lord had to be born among the Jews and in the Holy Land. So it was necessary that at least some of them should return and that Jerusalem and the temple should be rebuilt. It had been prophesied through Jeremiah (Jeremiah 29:10) that this should happen after seventy years of captivity. Cyrus was the king who permitted the return — the historian Ezra says that Cyrus believed that the Lord charged him to build Him a house in Jerusalem — and Cyrus proclaimed that all who wished might go and also told those who did not wish to return to give them aid in money, food, clothing, and animals. He himself restored to them the gold and silver vessels of the temple which Nebuchadnezzar had carried off.

When they reached their own land, the people set up an altar for sacrifice on the site of Solomon's temple and laid the foundations for a new temple. Then they did no more on it for sixteen years. They used as an excuse a difficulty they had with the Samaritans - the foreigners who had been brought in by Assyria to take the place of the people of Israel — but our chapter for today shows us that this was not the real reason.

The prophet Haggai was sent by the Lord to rebuke them and spur them on to finish the temple. He showed that the real trouble was that they were more interested in building their own houses and making themselves comfortable than they were in building the Lord's house.

How true this still is of many of us today! Our house is a symbol of our character. Our character is a temple of the Lord if it is built according to His directions and for His service, but many build only for their own comfort and advantage, and let this house of the Lord in themselves "lie waste."

Haggai succeeded in shaming the people into resuming the building of the temple, and it was finished four years later.

