
=== Adult

Perhaps the best lesson for the Adults is a discussion of our personal responsibility for our progress in spiritual intelligence. The Lord gave the Word and in His Second Coming opened its inner meaning, but His truth can do us no good unless we are willing to study and use it.

In a Sunday school course it is not possible to do much with the Prophets. The greater part of these books requires advanced study. And yet we all receive a powerful impression from hearing the Prophets read. In the Psalms and Prophets more than in the historical books — probably because there is often no story to hold our attention in the natural sense — we seem to feel the Lord speaking, even though we may not always understand the message. One cannot help pitying the person who has allowed himself to be misled into the belief that the Bible is the product of men and who studies the Prophets only to discover what Isaiah or Jeremiah or Ezekiel meant by the words he wrote. Certainly the prophets themselves had no thought that their words were their own. Nowhere else in the Word do we so constantly read "Thus saith the Lord," "The Lord said unto me," "The Lord showed me," and "The word of the Lord came unto me, saying."

We should have no doubt that it is the Lord who is speaking to us as we read the Prophets. Here and there the message comes through clearly even in the letter, as for example in Micah 6:8, but for the most part we must study the spiritual sense if we are to be instructed as well as emotionally affected.

Swedenborg explained verse by verse only the books of Genesis, Exodus, and Revelation. But in the incomplete manuscript Prophets and Psalms, published posthumously, he gives us a summary explanation of each of the Psalms and of each chapter in the Prophets. Beside this the writings are full of quotations from the Prophets, often with quite detailed explanation. So if one is willing to make the effort, it is possible to get at the spiritual meaning of the Prophets without guesswork or the use of one's own imagination. In the past, without the knowledge given us by the Lord in His Second Coming, men sometimes went very far astray in trying to interpret passages in the Prophets according to their imaginations. In this course we are able only to give the children some general idea of the Prophets and to give the adults one or two examples of what we can learn when we "dig in" to the study of any particular chapter or passage.

The passage chosen as our example today is a striking and beautiful picture in the letter. It is part of Ezekiel's last vision, given him in the twenty-fifth year of the captivity. For Ezekiel the priest was one of those carried away captive to Babylon with king Jehoiachin in the first great deportation from Judah. In this last vision Ezekiel was taken back to the Holy Land, where upon a high mountain he saw "as the frame of a city on the south." Here he was met by a man "whose appearance was like the appearance of brass" with a line of flax and a measuring reed in his hand, who conducted him through the temple, measuring each part as he went. This (chapters 40-46) is the description of the temple to which we referred in an earlier lesson, the description which the Rev. T. O. Paine found to be the complement of the description of Solomon's temple in 2 Kings.

Knowing as we do that the temple represents the dwelling place of the Lord in each of us, or a true spiritual character centered around worship of the Lord and obedience to the commandments, and that water is the symbol of truth, we recognize immediately that the waters issuing from the temple on the right side or the south side of the altar are a picture of divine truth given us by the Lord in love to bring us into a state of spiritual intelligence. We know, too, that divine truth can be given us only as we read the letter of the Word with the acknowledgment that it is from the Lord and with a desire to obey its teachings. That is, truth comes from the Lord alone and flows by influx into the knowledges of the Word in the mind of a good person.

Swedenborg's summary of the meaning of these twelve verses in Prophets and Psalms reads as follows: "Influx of Divine good and Divine truth from the Lord; from this influx the angels of the three heavens, and men, have spiritual life, and from the Divine good and Divine truth they have intelligence and charity."

Our "river" of divine truth is the Word. As we progress in regeneration we are enabled by the Lord to find deeper and deeper truths in it. In @AE 629 we are told that the ankles signify what is sensual and natural, the knees what is spiritual and natural, and the loins the marriage of truth and good. It is the same progression seen in the interpretation of Saul, David, and Solomon, culminating in the peaceful and wise state of loving the truth for the sake of use. When we reach that state, depths of truth in the Word can be revealed to us which we were not prepared to see before. See below for a description of the final state.

The trees along the banks stand for true principles understood by means of the Word. Their fruit represents good works done from unselfish love and therefore genuine and lasting. Their leaves picture spiritually rational ideas, which are able to show us our evils and weaknesses and so lead to the healing of the soul. The fish in the river are all our natural knowledges which are given vitality and made serviceable when they are seen in relation to the divine plan and purpose.

So through Ezekiel we are given a concrete view of our spiritual possibilities. If we see that the Word comes from the Lord and continue to study it with the help of the means given us by the Lord in His Second Coming, it will bring life and blessing to every part of our experience. The only limitations to our spiritual development are of our own making. The swamps and marshes will continue to be without life and will be "given to salt." The selfish feelings and thoughts to which we cling, knowing them to be wrong yet unwilling to apply to them the healing "medicine" of truth, cannot be reclaimed.

The Psalmist writes, "There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High. God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved." This is the same river of Ezekiel's vision, the same river which flowed out of Eden, and the same "pure river of water of life, clear as crystal" which John saw "proceeding out of the throne of god and of the Lamb." And the Lord through John says to each one of us: "Let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely."

