
=== Adult

Two main lines of discussion may be pursued: the significance of the philosophy of history found in the Arcana, and the difference between the people of the Most Ancient Church and all later people — including ourselves. We have a strong tendency to imagine that individually — if we learn the truths of the church in childhood — we arrive at a point when we no longer need to think about truth but somehow do good instinctively. There is nothing in the writings of the New Church to support such an idea.

The New Church teaching with regard to history is like a powerful searchlight bringing into clear view an area which has previously been dark and uncertain. History as we study it in school is something which has been compiled from material remains of past ages and from man-made documents, both sources necessarily fragmentary. Studied in this way, history is inevitably regarded as a process of human achievement — man's gradual conquest of his environment and the dealings of man with man. God has no part in it except as men are thought to have developed one religious concept after another and in spreading their ideas to have affected external events. But the Word teaches us that "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth" and that God's revelation of Himself to man has governed and directed all history. And the writings of Swedenborg teach us that in every age the church has been the "heart and lungs" of the social body, the center from which the life and thought of the age has sprung.

The character of the ancient people, as these writings reveal it to us in the interpretation of the early chapters of Genesis, is very different from the theories concerning it which men have formed from the study of material remains, and is much closer to the stories of the Golden and Silver Ages handed down through mythology. Our lesson today covers the period of the flood — the transition from the Most Ancient to the Ancient Church. In @AC 605 we read: "The subject now treated of is the formation of a new church, which is called 'Noah'; and its formation is described by the ark into which living things of every kind were received. But as is wont to be the case, before that new church could arise it was necessary that the man of the church should suffer many temptations, which are described by the lifting up of the ark, its fluctuation, and its delay upon the waters of the flood. And finally, that he became a true spiritual man and was set free, is described by the cessation of the waters, and the many things that follow."

Here we have clearly stated the way in which the Lord raised up a new church — the Ancient Church — from the "remnant" who were such that they could be regenerated. We are familiar with the thought that Noah and his sons picture this remnant. The change was not sudden. It took place gradually over a long period of time. The events described in chapter 7 of Genesis treat in their internal sense of the preservation of the remnant and their preparation for the new type of life to be developed, and chapter 8 treats of the development of the new church in them.

Finally in our chapter for today the state of the regenerate man of that church is described, and this is summed up in the "token" of the new covenant, the rainbow. We should note that this covenant was to be a perpetual one. That is, although the Ancient Church was to decline and perish and its knowledges to be lost, the character of man as to his means of regeneration would not again be changed. The human race on earth will not go back to the state of the man of the Most Ancient Church, although the regeneration of any individual may, if he is faithful, progress to the celestial degree. We are told that since the period of the flood no one has been added to the heavens of the Most Ancient Church, and the hells of that church have been closed. The succeeding churches have their celestial heavens but they are not reached except by the process described by the sign of the rainbow. Each of us is born natural and must learn truths and become spiritual before he can become celestial.

Swedenborg tells us (@AC 1043) that the cloud pictures the obscurity in which our minds are as a result of the evil in our natural wills. But when we introduce truths from the Word into our minds and try to live according to them, light from the Lord shining in those truths — like the rays of the sun reflected in the drops of water against the dark cloud — can so modify our darkness as to produce beautiful appearances of truth in our minds, like the colors of the rainbow, teaching us that the Lord is always present with His love and protection however dark our surroundings may seem, and that if we are faithful to the truth, He will keep us safe and finally remove our temptations and "create in us a clean heart." This is the covenant which He makes with all the human race. Because the will with which we are born is evil, we cannot see truth directly by perception as the people of the Most Ancient Church did, but truth can be reflected from the knowledge of the letter of the Word which we have in our minds and so "reform" us that the Lord can come into our hearts and give us a new will. This is the method of regeneration with all people since the flood, and the rainbow is consequently the correspondential sign of regeneration with the "spiritual" as distinguished from the "celestial" type of man.

Swedenborg says (@AC 1042): "Spiritual angels, who have all been regenerated men of the spiritual church, when presented to sight as such in the other life, appear with as it were a rainbow about the head." He also tells us that the character of the rainbow is different with each, according to the particular way in which he has allowed the truth to modify the natural obscurity of his mind. The "white" light is broken up into colors by the absorption of some of its elements by darkness of one sort or another. All the colors of the rainbow are harmonious and all are present in the white beam. The particular content of our minds determines the colors which can be reflected there and which ones will be blotted out by persistent falsities. "Many are regenerated by the Lord in every dogma, and when they have been regenerated they do not receive any immediate revelation, but only what is insinuated into them through the Word and the preaching of the Word. But because they receive charity, the Lord works through charity upon their cloud, from which there springs light, as when the sun strikes a cloud, which then becomes more luminous and is variegated with colors. Thus also there arises in the cloud the likeness of a bow. The thinner the cloud, that is, the more numerous are the intermingled truths of faith of which it consists, the more beautiful is the bow. But the denser the cloud, that is, the fewer the truths of faith of which it consists, the less beautiful is the bow. Innocence adds much to its beauty, giving as it were a living brightness to the colors" (@AC 1043). This gives us one clear answer to the question often asked, "If people of all religions can be saved, why is one religion better than another?" We should all wish to have our cloud of falsities as thin as possible so that our characters may reflect more of the beautiful variations of the Lord's light. But we must remember that there can be no rainbow whatever if charity is not found in us. We must wish to serve the Lord and the neighbor instead of ourselves or we can have no enlightenment.

