
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The doctrine of the different churches which have been on the earth should be introduced at this age, and this lesson of the flood and the sign of the rainbow makes the best possible opportunity. Stress our need of learning the truth and making ourselves obey it, and the meaning of the rainbow with reference to our knowledge of the Word.

---
The story of Noah and the flood is a picture of the end of the Most Ancient Church — the first church which existed on the earth — and the beginning of the second or Ancient Church. It is also a picture of a change which takes place very early in our lives. The people of the Most Ancient Church were as innocent and trustful as little babies are, although in some ways they were much wiser than we are today because they knew that the things of nature were important only as they teach us of heavenly things. They talked with spirits and angels, and their thoughts and actions came from their hearts. They could not even think anything which they did not will. We know that a baby always shows his feelings immediately and that his little life is governed by them.

But we know that it is not long before a little child learns that what he wants is not always right, and so his mind begins to judge his feelings and to control them. This helps us to see what the change was which the Lord had to make in mankind after they began to want to go their own way instead of His. For people who had to think and do just what their hearts wanted could not be "taught better" after their hearts became bad. Their thoughts and actions became bad, too, and in the end they destroyed themselves. You may hear it said today of someone who is letting bad habits get control of him that he is "going to destruction." The flood is the Bible picture of this destruction of the people of the Most Ancient Church.

Before all the people had reached this point, however, the Lord made a change in the very nature of the few who still wanted to be good — the "remnant" — who are pictured in the story by Noah and his family. He separated their understanding from their will so that they could think the truth even when they did not want to live according to it. All people since that time have been of this nature. So they could be taught what was right and could make themselves do it until it became a habit and they learned again to like to do it. We know that this is the way we all learn. We are selfish to begin with, just as the people at the end of the Most Ancient Church had come to be, but we can learn what the Lord wants and be shown that it is best for us, and make ourselves obey Him until we come to love to obey Him. This is the process of "reformation and regeneration" about which we shall speak a good deal as our study goes on.

The story of Noah's building the ark, taking his family and all the animals into it, and riding out the flood is a picture of how the Lord protected the good remnant of the people while this great change was taking place in them. Perhaps you remember that the rain lasted forty days and forty nights. All numbers in the Word have a correspondence, and the number forty corresponds to temptation. In our own lives the flood pictures the time when the Lord is showing us by means of our own selfishness that it is better to do right than wrong, so that we may develop the habit of doing right. That is the way we all learn in the beginning: We try to do what our parents say is right, not because we want to, but because we know we shall be punished for doing wrong and rewarded for doing right.

It takes a long time for good habits to become so established in us that our hearts can be changed. Even after the rain stopped, it was a hundred and fifty days before the flood began to subside and several months after that before Noah could come out of the ark and move about freely and reestablish his life on the earth.

Read Genesis 8:20-22. An altar is always the symbol of worship, and Noah's building the altar pictures the establishment of a new church on the earth which is called the Ancient Church. The people of the Most Ancient Church had not had a Bible. The Lord had instructed them by an inner way, through their innocent and good hearts and by visions and dreams. Near the end of that church good people, realizing that selfishness was closing this inner door, had begun to write down the teachings that had been received in this way so that they should not be lost. So when the Ancient Church was established, it had a set of sacred writings — the Ancient Word. This has been lost, but we know something of what it was like because the first seven chapters of our Bible were drawn from it. It was written in the symbol language in which the people of that time spoke because they understood the spiritual correspondence of everything in nature.

The Lord made a new covenant with this new church. A covenant is an agreement. In the letter the Lord promised protection to all who would obey Him. He promised that never again would He allow a time to come when people would have to be destroyed as the people of the Most Ancient Church had been. The sign or token of this covenant was the rainbow. This does not mean that there had never been a rainbow in the natural world before, but that the Lord showed them that the rainbow had a special meaning for them. The rainbow is very beautiful. It is caused by the breaking up of the sun's rays into their colors when the rays are reflected from the raindrops. This is a perfect picture of the new state in which men were to live from that time on. As we have seen, in the time of the people called Adam — the Golden Age or Most Ancient Church — the Lord spoke directly to people in their hearts. This was like the direct light of the sun. But in the time of the people called Noah — the Silver Age or Ancient Church - men had to learn truths from the Word — the drops of water from heaven — and then the Lord could enlighten their minds to see how these truths were to be used in their daily lives; the different applications of the truth are like the beautiful colors of the rainbow. So we today learn stories and verses from the Word and the Lord enlightens us to see their meaning and how they can guide and help us.

The rainbow, which comes against the dark clouds as a storm passes away, is a beautiful symbol of the Lord's truth leading us through temptation and trouble into happiness and peace.

