
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
See how much the children already know of the story of Noah and the flood and fill in any gaps. The Juniors are old enough to be interested in the history of mankind, and it is a good thing to get into their minds the thought that man was not created evil or even a savage, but by his own selfish choice declined spiritually until the Lord had to come into the world to save the human race from destroying itself. In connection with the rainbow, if possible, show the children by means of a prism how the white light is broken up into its colors.

---
In the story of the Garden of Eden, by what names are the first men and women called?

What two special trees were in the garden?

What were Adam and Eve told not to do?

Who tempted them to disobey?

What was their punishment?

When we disobey, our disobedience often leads us into doing other wrong things, and it is likely to get other people into trouble too. After the first people began to think they knew better than the Lord what they should do, they grew worse and worse. Each generation became more selfish and evil until they could not be allowed to live any longer. Their evils destroyed them. This is described in the Bible by the story of the flood. In this story Noah and his family picture the few good people who had resisted temptation and so could be saved. You are all familiar with the story of the flood. Let us see how accurately we remember it. If you do not know the answers, you may look up the Bible verses.

Who went into the ark with Noah? (Genesis 7:7)

What else did Noah take into the ark? (Genesis 7:8-9)

How long did the rain last? (Genesis 7:12)

When the flood abated, where did the ark rest? (Genesis 8:4)

The word Ararat means "high land." This is why the mountain in the story is given that name. In the previous lesson we had the story of how Noah sent out first a raven and then a dove to see if the waters were dried up from off the earth. Then, when he and his family came out of the ark, the first thing he did was to build an altar and worship the Lord. An altar is a symbol of worship; so in our churches we keep a copy of the Word on the altar. In the Bible people often built an altar to the Lord when they were grateful for something. We can build an altar in our minds by remembering always to thank the Lord for our blessings.

Now comes our lesson for today.

What did the Lord promise Noah?

What sign did He give?

When do we usually see a rainbow?

Sometimes, too, we see a rainbow in the spray of a fountain. A rainbow is formed when the sunlight strikes drops of water and is reflected back into our eyes. The white light is broken up into beautiful colors. A prism does the same thing.

You have heard that water is a symbol or picture of truth. And light is also a symbol of truth. That is why, when we suddenly understand something, we say, "I see!" Every verse from the Bible which you store away in your mind is like a drop of water, and when the Lord sees that you need to understand it, the light seems to shine into it suddenly and bring out all the beautiful things in it like the colors in the rainbow.

Of what was the rainbow to be a sign?

Just as the rainbow usually appears against the background of a dark cloud, so it is in times of trouble and temptation that we most need truth from the Lord and are most likely to ask Him for help. That is why the rainbow is the sign of the Lord's nearness to us whenever we need Him. The Lord's promise meant also that He would never again allow the human race to reach such a state of wickedness that it would be destroyed. It almost reached this state once in the course of history and then the Lord Himself came into the world and showed men the way back to safety.

