
=== Primary

Some children may never have seen a rainbow; so the teacher may have to explain what it is and when it is usually seen. The children can be encouraged to watch for one and to think of it as a sign of the Lord's care over us. Stress the fact that the Lord takes care of us if we are good, even when life seems dark. Even the Primary children can get the idea that the sun in this world is like the Lord in our souls.

---
You remember how the first people disobeyed the Lord and let the serpent persuade them to eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. Then they had to leave the beautiful Garden of Eden and go out and earn their living by hard labor.

You know that when one child does wrong, he is very likely to lead other children who are with him to do wrong, too. So the first people, once they had started to disobey the Lord, became worse and worse. Finally most of them became so bad that the Lord could not let them live any longer. They were destroyed in a great flood.

But there were a few good people left. Noah and his family were told by the Lord how to save themselves by building a boat, called an "ark," and gathering into it a pair of every kind of bird and animal that had been created. The great rain which caused the flood lasted forty days and forty nights, and the waters rose until they covered the tops of the mountains; but the ark rode safely on top of the water. When the rain stopped and the waters began to go down, the ark rested on top of a mountain called Ararat.

When the earth was dry again, Noah and his family and all the animals came out of the ark, and a new race of people began on the earth. Did your mother ever show you something very fine and say, "See, I am going to put this up on the mantel where you can see it, and if you are good all day, you shall have it before you go to bed"? She made an agreement with you, and the thing she put on the mantel was a sign or token to you that she would keep her part of the agreement if you would keep yours. Another word for agreement is "covenant." Now let us read our story for today. [Read Genesis 9:8-17.]

Did you ever see a rainbow? Sometimes when it has been raining and the clouds are very black, the sun comes out suddenly and a beautiful bow of bright colors appears against the dark clouds. Whenever you see one, remember that it is a sign from the Lord that no matter how dark things look, the sun is still there and ready to shine again, and the Lord is taking care of you. If you are good, no trouble will last very long.

