
=== Senior

The important lesson for the Seniors is the way in which the Lord leads us to goodness by making use of our own states, and the fact that we never know truth instinctively but have to learn it from the Word.

---
We noted previously that once the people of the Most Ancient Church began to look to themselves and their natural senses for guidance, they declined steadily in spirituality. They became possessed by their passions and by the falsities associated with them, which grew until they swallowed up all truly human life and every spiritual aspiration. This is pictured in the Bible by the flood which destroyed all living things and covered even the mountain tops. You will remember that the preservation of Noah and his family in the ark pictures the way in which the Lord saved the "remnant" — the few people who still recognized the Lord and wished to obey Him — during this time of the final devastation of the Most Ancient Church. In our own lives it pictures the way in which the Lord, as we come out of babyhood, at first leads us by means of our very selfishness, by showing us that we get along better when we obey our parents. So we form good habits and eventually can come to love doing right.

In the Bible story the drying up of the ground is the subsiding of the monstrous falsities of the past age. When this was accomplished the good remnant could be free in the earth again. We may perhaps think of an analogy to this in the dissipation of the idea of the "super—race" in middle Europe after the close of the Second World War. Noah's first act was to build an altar to the Lord and bring sacrifices. This is the first mention in the Word of "burnt offerings" of animals, but Swedenborg tells us that the people called Noah merely presented the animals at the altar and did not kill them. They knew that to present the animals before the fire on the altar meant making their affections sacred to the service of the Lord. In later times, when knowledge of this meaning had been lost, people began to burn the animals themselves, and the Lord permitted it in order to keep them from sacrificing their children as the idolatrous nations did.

Then in the Bible story the Lord makes a covenant with Noah, promising that He will protect men henceforth from being overwhelmed by their own evils and falsities, and He gives the rainbow as a sign.

The rainbow, we know, is caused by the breaking up of the white light from the sun as it is reflected from minute drops of water. This is a perfect picture of man's new state. The light from the Lord no longer shone directly into his affections as it had in the time of Adam, but shone into the truths from the Word which he had received in his mind, and from these enlightened him according to his particular need. This application of the truth to particular states and needs is pictured in the beautiful colors, all harmonious. The rainbow always appears against the dark clouds when the storm is almost over; so it is a symbol of the Lord's protecting and enlightening presence with us in times of trouble and temptation. The Lord is actually nearer to us when we are in temptation than at any other time.

We can understand this story if we think how the verses which we have learned from the Word are brought up in our minds just when we most need them, and filled with new meaning. The more raindrops of truth we have and the darker the background of trouble or temptation, the brighter and more beautiful the rainbow.

The people pictured by Adam formed what we call the Most Ancient Church, which was an "affectional" or "celestial" church, and so came down in mythology as the "Golden Age" because among the metals gold is the symbol of love. The people called Noah formed the Ancient Church, an intellectual or "spiritual" church, termed the "Silver Age" in mythology because silver is the symbol of truth. Mythology is not an invention of the peoples of historic times to account for their origins, but old traditions handed down from the early people who talked in the language of correspondence.

