
=== Adult

The meaning of Solomon's sin and of the division of the kingdom and the setting up of the golden calves makes a good discussion topic to begin with. This should be followed by a discussion of the meaning of the wrapping together of the mantle, Elisha's vision, its result, and Elisha's first acts as prophet.

---
The transition from the peaceful, triumphant reign of Solomon to the divided kingdom is a sudden and striking one. Why did Solomon's kingdom not endure? The external reasons, as stated in the letter, seem inadequate. One would have expected the whole people to be too proud of their obvious glory and prosperity and of their great capital and beautiful temple to be tempted to rebel. The answer is to be found in the spiritual meaning of Solomon's own later acts. We recall that in the latter part of his reign he married many wives from other nations and set up altars so that they might worship their own gods, and finally began himself to worship those gods in addition to his own. There is a grave warning for us in this story. Solomon's reign at its best represents the highest state we can reach, when we have come to obey the truth from love. But this highest state carries with it a deep temptation, the temptation to imagine that now we can do no wrong and to be proud of our own all-embracing love. This leads to an unwillingness to see anything but good in ourselves and others, and to a state in which we excuse and finally embrace many attractive forms of evil. At heart we still intend to be good — as Judah remained faithful to Solomon's line and continued the temple worship — but our minds, having accepted the idea that everyone who does the outward kindly acts which the world recognizes as good is a good person, are led further and further astray. After Jeroboam set up the golden calves in Bethel and Dan to keep his people from going to Jerusalem to worship, the kings of Israel, who represent the governing principles in the mind, became more and more wicked.

The Word is full of warnings against this state. No matter how good our intentions may be, it is the mind (i.e., our thought life) to which the Word must address itself. So it was to Israel, the rebellious northern kingdom, that the great prophets Elijah and Elisha were sent. In @AC 5321[5] we learn that "by both Elijah and Elisha was represented the Lord as to the Word." In the writings they are frequently mentioned together and no clear distinction is drawn between the two. Yet we know there must be a distinction. The power of Elijah passes over to Elisha in double measure, indicating that Elisha must represent a more potent presence of the Lord through His Word than Elijah. The Word in our minds increases in power as we progress in understanding and experience. We are familiar with the thought that garments picture external truths, like the language with which we clothe our thoughts. The prophet's mantle pictures the letter of the Word, "the Word in ultimates" (@AE 395[4]), in which, we are told, the power of the Word is in its fullness. The same number gives us a detailed explanation of the parting of the Jordan by Elijah's mantle. As the Jordan represents the first truths which initiate us into the church, the mantle wrapped together — that is, the sense of the letter of the Word taken as a whole — has power to part the waters for us. We must have a knowledge of the general teaching of the Scriptures before we can rightly understand the particular passages of the Word which are presented to us. Failing such general knowledge, we are often baffled by the waters of Jordan: particular passages do not yield their true meaning and are turned into falsity. So in @AC 4255[4] we are told that the dividing of the Jordan pictures the "removal of evils and falsities." The same miracle was accomplished by the ark in Joshua's time, because the ark represents the commandments and the commandments are a summary of the whole teaching of the Word. When Elijah first called Elisha (1 Kings 19:19), he cast his mantle upon him, and now Elisha assumes the mantle which Elijah drops, both these incidents representing the transfer of the representation of the Word from Elijah to Elisha.

Elisha asked for a double portion of Elijah's spirit. Those who grow up in the New Church and are introduced gradually to a knowledge of the spiritual sense of the Word are not conscious of the transition from Elijah to Elisha; but for one who has tried to understand the Word from a knowledge of the letter only and then finds the New Church teaching concerning correspondences, the experience of Elisha is a very real one. Elisha was told that if he saw Elijah when he was taken into heaven, his request would be granted. Elisha saw first a chariot of fire and horses of fire which parted Elijah from him. That is, Elisha's eyes were opened to see a representation of the Word in the heavens; the chariot of fire pictures "the doctrine of love and charity from the Word" and the horses of fire "the doctrine of faith therefrom" (@AC 2762). And then he saw Elijah lifted up by a whirlwind into heaven. When we are permitted to see that within the letter of the Word there is a heavenly meaning which teaches a consistent doctrine of love to the Lord and the neighbor, the Word is lifted up as by a whirlwind in our minds. The letter, Elijah's mantle, remains but now has a double power. This is a very real experience. When we study the Word in the light of correspondences, passages which have been obscure and even meaningless to us are lighted up and become effective helps for life; and not only that, but we find ourselves acquiring an ability to remember and to quote the Word in our conversation with others and to pass on something of our new understanding and especially something of the recognition of the power of the Word.

The meaning of the healing of the waters of Jericho is explained in detail in @AC 9325[9-10]. Jericho, as a city near the Jordan, pictures an external or natural teaching concerning the letter of the Word. If there is not the desire to apply these teachings to life, the waters are bitter and produce no fruit. The new cruse pictures new knowledge of good and truth and the salt "the longing of truth for good." The spring of the waters, into which Elisha cast the salt, is "the natural of man which receives the knowledges of truth and good, and which is amended by the longing of truth for good." When we see the Word only in its external meaning, many passages have no effect upon our lives because we cannot see their application. We often seem to read the Word without effect — our land is barren. This state can be healed by the added power which comes with our new understanding. If we have the desire to apply what we learn, every passage which we read with our new understanding can be made effective in our lives.

An example of this is found in the last verses of our chapter, where we are shown the office of the prophet in pointing out and condemning evil. As in the story of Uzzah, the punishment seems to us at first too severe for the offense, and here again a literal understanding of the passage has sometimes turned people away from the Word. But when we realize that Elisha represents the Word and his hair the letter of the Word, we see that to call Elisha "thou baldhead" is to ridicule the letter of the Word. Children always picture beginnings. Thus our story teaches us the danger of beginning to take the letter of the Word lightly, even through mere thoughtlessness, to make jokes about it or to laugh at such jokes, to make light of any of its stories. The punishment of the children was that they were torn by bears from the wood. Bears picture "those who read the Word and do not understand it." If we allow ourselves to break down our reverence for the letter of the Word, we become a prey to all those arguments and influences which emanate from the study of the Word as a mere natural history product. This is spiritual destruction. "For all the power and sanctity of the Word are gathered up and have their seat in the sense of the letter; for without this sense the Word could not exist, since without it the Word would be like a house without a foundation, which would be shaken by the wind, and thus be overthrown and fall to pieces." (@AE 781[11]). See also @AC 3301[9], @AR 573, and @DSS 39.

