
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the time of the divided kingdom as it applies to us individually is important for this class, and also the meaning of Elijah and Elisha and of the double power given to Elisha and why it could be given.

---
The divided kingdom is a picture of a state in which we often are. At heart we want to be good, but our minds find all sorts of excuses for our being selfish instead. Judah represents the heart and Israel the mind when they are divided in this way. All the kings of Israel were bad. In fact, they grew worse and worse in spite of the many prophets the Lord sent to warn them, the greatest of whom were Elijah and Elisha. In his old age, when Jezebel had vowed to take his life, Elijah fled to Horeb and asked the Lord to take him out of his troubles, and the Lord sent him back to do some last things, one of which was to anoint Elisha to be his successor. In our lesson for today Elijah has done all the things he was commanded to do and his work is ended. Elisha has been with him for some time as his disciple and servant, and now his worthiness to succeed his master is to be proved.

First Elisha refused to turn back from following Elijah in his last journey. The Gilgal from which they started is not the Gilgal near Jericho, but another Gilgal just north of Bethel. The journey of the two prophets from Gilgal first to Bethel, then to Jericho, then to and across the Jordan pictures the way in which the letter of Scripture reaches down from the heights to the very outmost plane of our lives. It is in this outmost plane that we are in danger of losing our connection with the Lord by thinking of the letter of the Word as a mere dead relic of the past.

But Elisha, because he wished to obey the Lord, was given a new assurance. Horses are symbols of intelligence and a chariot the symbol of doctrine, the kind of organized teaching which enables our intelligence to work effectively and to carry us on from state to state, in this case even to heaven. Fire, of course, pictures divine love. Elijah, as the Lord's prophet, stands for the Word; Elisha also stands for the Word, but for the Word as seen from a higher understanding. When Elisha saw Elijah taken up to heaven by the horses and chariot of fire, he knew beyond question that Elijah's power had been a heavenly power coming from divine love, and this knowledge gave Elisha himself a double power. If we read the Word because we know we ought to and try to obey it for the same reason, it will indeed work miracles in our lives. But if we see within it its spiritual meaning and how the Lord's love is speaking to us through it, it has a new and much greater power in and through us.

Elijah's mantle pictures the letter of the Word. We should note that when he used it to part the water, he "wrapped it together," and later Elisha did the same. This pictures the fact that we need to see the teaching of the letter of the Word as a whole if we are to use it effectively in our lives. We cannot pick and choose what we like to believe and forget the rest. We must have an organized knowledge of its teaching. And no matter how much we know of the inner meaning of the Word, the power is still in the letter. We should all learn as much as possible of the letter of the Word and cultivate the ability to "quote Scripture" in times of need for ourselves and for others.

The rest of our chapter gives us two incidents in the beginning of Elisha's career as a prophet. First he showed the power to make the bitter waters of Jericho sweet. Jericho was in the plain near the head of the Dead Sea, the lowest spot on the face of the earth. The sons of the prophets there picture our efforts to correct the lowest plane of our lives, the cravings of our senses. The truth is bitter to us on this level, but the new understanding of it which Elisha pictures furnishes a new cruse — a new container — full of salt to make it sweet. Salt is the symbol of "the desire of truth for good." This means the urge to apply truth to our lives as soon as we learn it. When we have this desire, truth is sweet to us and makes our lives fruitful. Then Elisha started up toward Bethel and the little children came out and called him "baldhead." This is almost the only place in the Bible where little children are used in a bad sense, except in the passages where the Israelites are told to destroy their enemies including the little children. [See, for example, Psalm 137:9. -Editor] Usually we think of the innocence and trust of little children, but little children are also ignorant and incapable of judgment. They represent beginnings. When they do good things, they picture beginnings of goodness, but when, as here, they do bad things, they picture the beginnings of evil. The hair, which is the outmost thing of the body in which there is life, represents our most external thoughts and deeds. The hair of the prophet represents obedience to the commandments in the outmost form. To call Elisha "baldhead" is to ridicule the necessity of learning and obeying the commandments and in general to ridicule the letter of the Word. This leads people into gross external evils, pictured by the bears from the woods, and to spiritual death.

