
=== Junior

Try to do more in this class with the division of the kingdom, using a map. This is an excellent opportunity for a map review lesson, comparing the Holy Land as divided among the tribes with this division into two parts and with the later division into three in the time of the Gospel story.

---
Solomon reigned forty years in peace and honor, but during the last part of his life he was led away from perfect allegiance to the Lord. He married a great many wives from other lands and set up in the Holy Land altars to their various gods. Also in order to keep up his splendor and the palaces for his wives he taxed the people very heavily. So after he died ten of the tribes rebelled against his son Rehoboam and set up a new kingdom in the northern part of the land with its capital at Samaria. This new kingdom was called Israel and the southern part of the land, which remained faithful to Solomon's son, was called Judah and kept its capital at Jerusalem.

The kings of Israel were uniformly wicked kings, not worshiping or obeying the Lord. The Lord sent many prophets to warn them. One of the greatest of these was Elijah. Perhaps you remember some stories of the miracles he performed through the Lord's power. King Ahab and his evil wife Jezebel made many attempts to destroy him. Our lesson today is concerned with the end of Elijah's life. The Lord had told him that Elisha was to be his successor, and he had called Elisha to go with him as his disciple and servant.

How did Elijah and Elisha cross the Jordan?

What power had parted it once before?

What wish did Elisha express?

What did Elijah tell him?

What did Elisha see?

If you should see such a thing as that, you could never forget it, could you? You would know that Elijah had been a real prophet or speaker for the Lord. No matter what anyone said or did, you would be sure you were right and would tell him so. That is like Elisha's double power. When we learn the commandments and try to obey them because our parents and teachers tell us we should, they have power to make our lives orderly; but when we are older and see that the commandments are really the Lord's laws, given to lead us to happiness and heaven, they have double power in our lives.

What fell from Elijah as he was caught up to heaven?

His mantle was well known by the people, especially by the "sons of the prophets."

So when they saw Elisha with Elijah's mantle, they knew he was Elijah's successor.

What did Elisha do with the mantle which proved this?

What miracle did Elisha perform for the sons of the prophets in Jericho?

As Elisha was going to Bethel, what did some children call him?

What happened to them?

This does not seem to us a very serious offense, does it? But in those days it was considered a disgrace to be bald, and "bald head" was a very bad name to call anyone. Elisha was the Lord's prophet and had to be respected by the people. When you are older, you will learn more of what this part of the story means.

