
=== Senior

There are important lessons for the Seniors in this story. They will soon face the temptation to yield to the ideas in the world about them concerning the Word, and to think that if they measure up to the world's standards of goodness, they need no longer go to the Word for guidance. They need also to be shown that since, under divine providence, they have been introduced to the teachings of the Second Coming, a responsibility has been laid upon them to live the more spiritual life demanded by these teachings.

---
Elijah and Elisha, as prophets of the Lord, both represent the Word. The Word comes to us, as the prophets came to Israel, to show us our evils, to warn us, and also to show us the way of true happiness, to heal our griefs and troubles.

We recall that after the death of Solomon ten of the tribes, the whole northern half of the Holy Land and the cross—Jordan people, rebelled against Solomon's son Rehoboam and set up an independent kingdom called Israel with its capital at Samaria and its worship centered in the images of two golden calves, one at Bethel and one at Dan on the northernmost border. When we allow worldly reasoning to lead us away from worship of the Lord and come to think that if we do the outward kindly acts which the world praises, we are good people, we have, like Israel, separated ourselves from Jerusalem and set up golden calves in place of the ark and the temple. At the bottom of our hearts we may still acknowledge the Lord and admit that we ought to be led by Him — Judah, the southern kingdom, remained faithful to the line of David and nominally to the worship of Jehovah. The two books of kings are principally concerned with the history of the divided kingdom, the story swinging back and forth from Israel to Judah to Israel again, just as our attention alternates between our good intentions and our false reasonings when our minds and hearts are not in harmony. For when the mind turns from the guidance of the Lord, it goes further and further astray. The kings of Israel were increasingly evil.

The Lord through the Word does all He can to bring us back to the true way of life, as He sent Elijah and Elisha to Israel. In our lesson for today Elijah's mantle represents the letter of the Word. Folded together — that is, accepted and understood as a consistent whole — it is able to part the waters of Jordan, just as the ark had done long before. Swedenborg tells us that the power of the Word is in its fullness in the letter. We can see how this is. Take, for example, the twenty-third Psalm. We can study it verse by verse, learn more and more of its spiritual meaning, and understand it and its application to life better the more we learn; but all this is contained in the actual words of the Psalm, and we never reach the point where we do not need and love to repeat the Psalm in its letter. The more deeply we understand it, the more it affects us as we say it. So Elisha received a double portion of Elijah's spirit because he was permitted to see Elijah taken up to heaven by the horses and chariot of fire.

The two familiar stories told in the rest of the chapter are closely connected with the same thought. The prophet's hair as the outmost expression of his life, as well as his mantle, pictures the letter of the Word. So to call Elisha "baldhead " was equivalent to denying the holiness of the letter of the Word. The children who did this were torn by she—bears from the wood. Bears are hairy animals and picture an affection for the outmosts of things. So today those who deny the divine inspiration of the Word are often absorbed in the study of its letter as a mere human production; studying it in this way, they get further and further from the Lord. Their very study gradually destroys their spiritual life.

The story of the "healing" of the spring by putting salt in it is easily understood if we remember that salt represents the element which unites truth to goodness. Truth produces nothing unless it is lived. When we learn new truth, we should not go on doing just as we did before. Each new truth we learn should make a change in our life. This is especially true of the new truths the Lord made known in His Second Coming. We cannot be truly New Churchmen and continue to live the same old worldly, stumbling lives. If our "spring" is barren, it is because we need the "salt" of active application of newly learned truths to our own thought and conduct.

