
=== Adult

The best discussion material for this class will probably be based on the general correspondence of Saul and the enemies he could and could not overcome. In a church society we need constantly to help people of all ages to understand each other, to distinguish between good intentions and wisdom, to make allowances for each other, and to work together harmoniously in the Lord's service.

The three great kings who ruled over the whole land — Saul, David, and Solomon — all picture the Lord's divine truth ruling in our life. The enemies they fought are symbolic of evils and falsities within ourselves which oppose the rule of divine truth. Yet Saul, David, and Solomon were not perfect men, nor were they always victorious. Divine truth is received by us individually in different ways and in each of us differently at different stages of our progress through life. In a general sense the period of the kings represents an adult state, a time when we are making our own choices and are responsible for them. And also this period represents a part of the regenerate life. The Holy Land has been entered and has become our home. And we have also passed through the temptation to imagine that no more effort is required of us — the period of the Judges — and are ready to resume the conquest of our inner and outer evils under the rule of divine truth. We accept the Word as our guide — Samuel is still the Lord's prophet. Why are we not always victorious?

It is because our understanding of the truth is imperfect and because our inherited tendency to self-love and self-assertion is ever present and active, whether we recognize it or not. Saul represents divine truth as we first see it at this stage of regeneration. He was acceptable to the people because he stood head and shoulders above them. The Lord had told Samuel to let the people have their king, and He had chosen Saul and commanded Samuel to anoint him. The Lord leads each of us as best He can according to our states, preserving our freedom.

A study of attitudes of "young adult" groups in churches will help us to understand the reign of Saul. Usually they mean well, and they start out with the recognition of their inexperience. When Samuel first told Saul that he was to be king, Saul said:

"Am not I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin?" And later, when at Mizpah the lot fell upon Saul, Saul had "hid himself among the stuff." And Saul, like the young adults in the church, was brave and eager and very willing to go into battle; and he won his first battle. It was against the Ammonites, who were attacking Jabesh—Gilead in the cross—Jordan country. It represents resistance against an obvious external temptation. But this first victory was all that was needed to disclose Saul's inadequacy for the kingship. For it "turned his head." It gave him confidence in himself instead of in the Lord. When we are young, we are much like Saul in this respect. It takes only a very little success and praise to make us self-confident and impatient of advice or control.

In the story of Saul and Jonathan and the battle with the Philistines, you remember, Saul had been told to wait seven days until Samuel should come and offer the proper sacrifices before beginning the battle. But Saul saw the Philistine reinforcements coming in and his own men deserting, and he decided that he himself could offer the sacrifices as well as Samuel. Like Saul, our first understanding of divine truth is based on appearances. We are impatient with delay and in a hurry to "get things done." It was only after Jonathan, who trusted in the Lord instead of in himself, had by his simple exploit thrown the Philistine army into confusion that Saul was able to attack and defeat it. The Philistine temptation to think that knowing the truth will save us without obedience to it can obviously not be overcome by confidence in self.

This lesson gives us Saul's final failure, although he continued to be king in name for some time afterward. The Amalekites were the first enemy who attacked the Israelites after they left Egypt. We have had the story of this first battle at Rephidim, which the Israelites won only because Moses went up into the mountain and, with the help of Aaron and Hur, kept his hands lifted to the Lord until the sun went down. The Amalekites represent "falsity from interior evil." Swedenborg, in speaking of Amalek in @AC 8593, says: "Interior evil is that which lies inwardly concealed with man, hidden in his will, and thence in his thought, no trace of which appears in his externals, as in his actions, speech, and face." He says that those in the other world who are in this kind of evil are not called evil spirits but "evil genii," and that in their effort to influence us they "do not attack the truths of faith, but the goods of faith; for they act by means of depraved affections, whereby they pervert good thoughts, and this in a manner almost incomprehensible," and that they "never attack a man openly, nor when he is capable of vigorous resistance; but when it appears that a man is falling so as to yield, they are suddenly at hand, and push him on to a complete fall."

We can see why Saul — picturing the natural understanding of divine truth, based on appearances — was seduced by this enemy into sparing the things which seemed to him good, and so also sparing the king — the ruling principle — of the Amalekites, Swedenborg (in the same number quoted above) refers to the evil genii again in connection with verse 32 of our chapter: "'To go delicately' signifies the outward blandishments of such spirits in the presence of others." It takes a good deal of experience for one to be able to see through the specious arguments of such spirits, and older people should be wise enough to help young people patiently through their period of "snap judgments."

Read carefully verses 22 and 23 of our lesson. Saul's yielding to this temptation in the face of the Lord's explicit commands finished his actual kingship, for we read in the very next chapter that Samuel was sent to anoint David and that as soon as David was anointed "the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul." The tearing of Samuel's robe by Saul was the sign of this change. @AE 395[5] tells us: "The words of Samuel make clear that 'the rending of the skirt of the cloak' signified the rending of the kingdom from Saul, for he said after it was done, 'Jehovah hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day,' 'a king' and 'his kingdom' signifying the Divine truth of the church, and 'the skirt of a cloak' signifying Divine truth in ultimates, that is, all Divine truth in general; for the kings that were over the sons of Israel represented the Lord in relation to Divine truth, and their kingdom signified the church in relation to Divine truth; therefore this historical fact signifies that king Saul was such that he could no longer represent the Lord, and that the representation of the church would perish if the kingdom were not rent from him."

