
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Identify Saul as the first of the series of three great kings. Stress the immaturity of the understanding of divine truth which he represents and the reason for his failures. Young people are hard to reason with when they are in the heat of an argument with their parents in favor of something they want, but if the realization that their present understanding may be rather limited has been brought home to them in Sunday school, when they are in a quiet and receptive mood, it may come back to them when they need it and prove a help to their parents.

---
In the Bible, a king represents a ruling principle. All three great kings of the Israelites — Saul, David, and Solomon — were chosen by the Lord and represent the Lord's truth governing in our lives. But our understanding of the Lord's truth develops gradually as we use it. We have to learn many things by experience. At first we have only a natural understanding of the Word and of its application to life. We mean to obey the Lord, but our judgment as to what He would have us do is hasty and shallow. This level of understanding is represented by Saul. The Lord chose Saul as the first king because he was the only kind of leader the people would have accepted and followed at that time. 1 Samuel 10:23-24 tells us that he was "higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward," and so they were delighted with him. They judged him by his appearance, as we are all prone to judge things before experience has taught us to look more deeply.

Saul won his first battle, which was with the Ammonites in the cross—Jordan country. The cross—Jordan country represents the outward plane of conduct. The natural understanding of truth represented by Saul can easily see and resist temptations on this plane. But Saul's first victory gave him a confidence in himself which was his undoing. We have already learned how, when his enemy was the Philistines, he was too impatient to wait for Samuel to come and offer the necessary sacrifices, and instead offered them himself. His army overcame the Philistines not through Saul's leadership, but by means of the exploit of his son Jonathan, who trusted in the Lord instead of in himself. And we remember that at that time Samuel told Saul that his kingdom would not be of long duration.

Our natural understanding of truth, pictured by Saul as king, is pleasing to us, and is able to overcome some external evils; but it is easily deceived by appearances and is impatient with the Lord's commands when they do not appear to bring immediate results. Our story today illustrates the inadequacy of this degree of understanding.

The enemies that the Israelites were to destroy were the Amalekites, descendants of Esau. Esau, the twin brother of Jacob, represents goodness on the natural plane, while Jacob represents truth. When they were separated and striving against each other, many evils resulted. Esau went to live in the wilderness, as good intentions always do when they are without truth to guide them. One of the bad results of this separate life is liable to be an inner feeling of satisfaction with one's own good intentions. We feel sure that we "mean well" and therefore that our own ideas of right and wrong must be correct. This is a deep-seated kind of self-love, often not recognized as an enemy at all until it suddenly leads one into trouble. Amalek, as a descendant of Esau, represents false ideas which spring from hidden self-satisfaction, often leading to discouragement in the face of the demands of spiritual living. The Amalekites always struck from ambush, as we learned in our lesson about Israel's first battle with them at Rephidim, or they combined with other enemies, as they had in the time of the Judge Gideon (Judges 6:3). And we remember that at Rephidim they were conquered only by Moses going up on the mountain and keeping his hands uplifted to the Lord. We cannot conquer this temptation when we are self-confident.

Apparently, although they were known to be hostile, the Amalekites were not openly attacking in Saul's time. But the Lord through Samuel commanded Saul to hunt them out and utterly destroy them. Saul was willing enough to make the attack and won a victory, but he again set up his own judgment against the Lord's and did not completely obey. He saved the king (who symbolizes the principal falsity) alive, and brought back the best of the sheep and oxen (which represent the outward manifestations of this evil) which to our natural reason seem to be harmless and even useful.

When Samuel pointed out Saul's disobedience, Saul claimed that he had saved these things as sacrifices to the Lord. This pictures a very common excuse for disobeying the commandments. For example, sharp practices in business are winked at when part of the resulting fortune is used for endowing charitable institutions. A common example of this evil was condemned by the Lord in Mark 7:9-13.

Samuel as prophet pictures the Word, and his garments the letter of the Word. Saul's tearing Samuel's mantle pictures his unwillingness to keep the truth whole. This was the reason why the kingdom had to pass from his line.

