
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this lesson again something of the general spiritual meaning can be given to the Older Children through a study of Saul's good and bad points and his excuse for sparing Agag and the cattle. This kind of confidence in our own superior judgment begins sometimes when we are very young, and the story can be a helpful warning.

---
The Lord had chosen Saul to be Israel's first king because He knew that they would judge by his outward appearance and that they would have to learn by experience that appearance is sometimes deceiving.

Saul's first battle was against the Ammonites in the cross—Jordan country, and he won it. This made the people sure that he was the right one for their king, but unfortunately it also made Saul himself too sure of his own power and ability. He was well—meaning and brave, but not very wise. So when the Philistines rose up and threatened Israel again, Saul was in too much of a hurry to take the proper means of approach to the battle. He knew that although he was king, Samuel was still the Lord's prophet, and Samuel had told him to wait seven days for him to come and offer sacrifices before the battle. But Saul grew impatient and on the seventh day offered the sacrifices himself before Samuel got there. Then Samuel told him that because he trusted in himself instead of obeying the Lord, his kingdom would be short-lived.

Both the Ammonites, over whom Saul had won his first victory, and the Philistines were open enemies of Israel; and both had collected armies and prepared to attack before Saul went out to meet them. But now Samuel tells Saul to hunt out and attack an old enemy which did not seem to be threatening them at the moment. Who was this enemy?

When have we heard of them before?

How was the victory won that first time?

What was the method of attack of the Amalekites?

Saul did not hesitate to obey the Lord's command to go out against the Amalekites. He was a strong man and liked to fight. And he and his army won a complete victory. But he did not obey the Lord completely. He thought he knew better.

What had Samuel told him to do to the Amalekites?

How did he disobey?

Saul destroyed everything that seemed to him bad and worthless, but he could not resist the temptation to save what looked valuable. Once before — in Joshua's time — someone had disobeyed in this same way, and Israel had suffered for it. You will find the story in Joshua 7.

The wars of Israel picture our battles against our selfish desires and wrong thoughts. We all are willing to fight these things, because we know that they do us harm and make trouble for us. But we are often like Saul. We want to destroy only what we clearly see to be harmful and to keep the things which seem pleasant and which we enjoy - "the best of the sheep and of the oxen" - even though the Lord has told us to get rid of our selfishness completely. In fact, we sometimes rather like our weaknesses. Have you ever heard someone say, "Oh, I have a terrible temper," as if he were rather proud of it? He learns, as a matter of common sense, to control his temper whenever losing it would make him ashamed of himself, but with his family and friends he rather enjoys showing it off. We "save the king" when, while destroying what appears outwardly bad, we leave the root of the trouble untouched in our hearts.

What excuse did Saul give for saving the best of the cattle?

What did Samuel tell him?

How did Saul try to keep Samuel from leaving him?

What happened?

What did Samuel say it meant?

What happened to Agag?

