
=== Senior

The teacher should study the quotations at the end of the lesson and be prepared with examples of "Amalek temptations" suited to the experience of the class. The effort should be to show the young people how prone we are to accept thoughts and arguments which favor our own natural self-interest as true.

---
Israel, after conquering the Holy Land under Joshua, became lax under prosperity and, in the period of the Judges, was more and more troubled by its enemies until it came to desire a king who could organize concerted resistance.

Samuel, the last of the Judges, at the Lord's command anointed Saul, and Saul was welcomed by the people because of his height and fine appearance. Saul, the first of the three kings of the united nation, represents a natural understanding of the truth such as we are likely to have when we are young people. It desires to serve the Lord and is eager for action, but it is impatient under delays and, reasoning from appearances, is liable to set itself up as a better judge of what should be done than even the Lord. Saul won his first victory over the Ammonites; but in his struggle against the Philistines refused to wait for Samuel's sanction and won only because his son Jonathan, who did trust wholly in the Lord, opened the way for his army.

At that time Samuel rebuked Saul and told him that the kingdom must pass out of his line, which pictures the fact that as we progress, a natural understanding of the truth is not sufficient to rule our lives.

Our story today shows still more clearly Saul's strength and weakness. The two foes he had so far overcome were open enemies, gathered in force for attack. Now he is told to seek out and destroy the Amalekites, an enemy who never attacked openly, but lay in wait for their foes. Saul is perfectly willing to attack this foe also and wins a victory, but contrary to the Lord's command to destroy the enemy utterly, he saves the king and the best of the sheep and oxen, again setting up his own judgment above the Lord's command, and drawing final condemnation upon himself.

Swedenborg says that Amalek represents "falsity from interior evil." We know from our own experience how readily we see as good those things which serve our self-interest, even when we sincerely believe we are trying to do right. A natural understanding of truth inevitably condemns only the obvious evils, and takes to itself the fair—seeming practices — the best of the sheep and oxen - leaving untouched the deep selfish root idea — represented by king Agag. Saul's claim that he saved the sheep and oxen as a sacrifice to the Lord also has a familiar ring. In business, in society, and in political life today many basically selfish and wrong acts are excused with the argument that "the end justifies the means."

When Samuel told Saul that the kingdom was to be taken from him and started to move away from him, we read that Saul caught hold of the skirt of Samuel's mantle and tore it. Samuel, we remember, represents the Word; so his mantle represents the letter of the Word. Saul's weakness was his unwillingness to keep the letter of the divine command. To symbolize this Samuel's garment was torn by his hand. Our spiritual power is dependent upon our obedience to the divine commands. Our own judgment must not be allowed to interfere with this. The Lord is always and forever wiser than men.

One of the quotations at the end of this lesson describes more exactly the temptation represented by Amalek, and its source. You remember that Amalek was the first enemy the children of Israel actually had to fight after they left Egypt. It was the battle at Rephidim, when Moses went up on the mountain and Aaron and Hur held up his hands to the Lord throughout the battle, because when he let his hands fall, Amalek prevailed. The quotation refers to the last verse of that story (Exodus 17:16) which says that "the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation." Swedenborg calls the evil spirits whom Amalek represents "evil genii" because of their malignancy and subtlety. The thoughts they inspire in us appeal to our natural selfishness, and our first natural understanding of truth, with its tendency to self-confidence, is no match for them. Saul alone could not "root out" the Amalekites. Only the humble acknowledgment of our own weakness and self-love and the persistent lifting of our thoughts above worldly and selfish considerations to the Lord can win a complete victory.

