
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The teacher would do well to read carefully the Doctrine of the @DSS, nos. 50-61 and try to present this teaching as a whole in its bearing on our reading and study of the Word. In the New Church people have tended to swing to one extreme or the other — to neglect the study of the letter of the Word, or to neglect the study of the writings. The letter of the Word is the basic study and should be pursued systematically throughout our life, but if we, in this new age, did not also need the knowledge which the writings give us, it would not have been given us. And our study of the letter of the Word should be governed and directed by our knowledge that it is divinely inspired, and not by the pronouncements of those who study the Word as the product of human intelligence. We should see clearly the difference between these two approaches and study the Word in light rather than in darkness.

---
Three of the universally recognized parables of the Lord are in this chapter of Mark. The parable of the sower and the parable of the mustard seed are found also in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, but that of the seed growing secretly is found only in Mark. There are in all some ten parables in the Old Testament and thirty-six in the New which are recognized as parables by all Christians [see note* in Intermediate section]. But our chapter tells us that "without a parable spake he not unto them," and in the New Church we know that this statement has a far wider application than is generally understood. The whole Word is parable.

The principal reason why the Lord speaks to men always in parable is given in verses 11 and 12 of our chapter. To understand these verses we need to know who are meant by those to whom "it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God" and by those who are said to be "without." They are the same two groups who are meant in verse 25 by "he that hath" and "he that hath not." In the Doctrine of the @DSS, nos. 50-61, Swedenborg tells us how we are taught in the Word. These sections need to be studied very thoughtfully because certain statements in them, taken out of their context, have been used to support exactly opposite positions as to our proper study of the Word. Number 57 tells us that "enlightenment is from the Lord alone, and exists with those who love truths because they are truths and make them of use for life." These are those who — in verse 25 of our chapter - are said to "have." We do not have anything which we have not made our own by receiving it in the heart. Those who "have not" are described in number 60: "The contrary takes place with those who read the Word from the doctrine of a false religion, and still more with those who confirm that doctrine from the Word, having in view their own glory or this world's riches. ... For nothing blinds a man but his proprium and the confirmation of what is false. Man's proprium is the love of self and the derivative conceit of self-intelligence." The Lord, we know, never forces anyone to believe in Him or in His Word, and so far as possible He guards us against seeing truth which we are not prepared to apply to life. This is what is meant by verse 12, and is the principal reason why the Word is given in parable.

There is another reason which is suggested in @DSS 51: "Many truths also are accommodated to the capacity of simple folk, who do not uplift their thoughts above such things as they see before their eyes." This was true of most of the multitude to whom the Lord spoke when He was in the world. It is true of all young children and of those adults whom Swedenborg often refers to as "the simple good." But it is also true of all of us at the beginning of our acquaintance with any new truth. It has to be presented to us first in a form in which it can be easily grasped and which can serve as a permanent basis for growing understanding.

But that we should not stop with this simple understanding of the letter, the Lord showed by explaining not only to His chosen disciples but to all of us through the recorded Word the meaning of the parable of the sower, as an indication of what lies within the letter and as a clue to the meaning of many other passages in which sowing, seed, ground, etc., are mentioned. He showed it later by opening the understanding of the apostles to see "in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms" the things concerning Himself (Luke 24:44-45). And especially He showed it by opening the Word in His second coming through the instrumentality of Swedenborg. The Lord does nothing useless.

We may take the parable of the sower as an example of the process by which we learn from the Lord. We all heard this parable when we were children. It came to us in simple words which we could understand, presenting a vivid picture which our imaginations could grasp. So it stayed with us. The fate of the seeds in the different kinds of ground touched our tender hearts. When we were a little older, the Lord's explanation of the parable was given us, and we realized suddenly that we might be one of those kinds of ground which did not bring forth fruit; we might be letting the Lord's truth be carried out of our minds by the birds of false thought, or scorched by our selfishness, or choked out by worldly pleasures and temptations. Our childhood concern for the poor seeds is transmuted into more mature shame for our own faults. Today, when life experience has illustrated the parable to us again and again, reading it leads us into many paths of thought concerning our own state and the state of the world. But we should note that it is as we read the parable in the letter that these thoughts come to us. The letter still stands in our minds as the "basis, containant, and support" of the meaning we have found and of new meaning which we shall continue to find to eternity.

In our chapter there are two other parables concerning seed, but before they are introduced, we have the warning of verses 21 to 24. If we have received the seeds of truth into our minds with a desire to apply them to life which has enabled them to grow and bring forth fruit, we must leave no dark corners in our character into which we will not let the light of truth penetrate. We must be willing to go all the way in self-examination and correction. This world is our opportunity to get rid of our evils. When we pass into the other, all those things in ourselves which we have been unwilling to see will be brought to light in spite of us, and in that world we shall find that they have become a permanent part of our character. We can no longer get rid of them.

If, however, we are honestly trying to follow the Lord "in the regeneration" (Matthew 19:28) we shall find that wonderful things have happened to the seed which has been sown in this world. We all fortunately are able to see some progress in understanding as we go through life. The seed springs up, we know not how. No truth that is sown in the good ground of a sincere heart will fail to produce its harvest — if not here, then in the world to come. Read here @AE 1153[6].

Then the thought presented in these verses is carried further by the parable of the mustard seed, which tells us that even the least truth received from the Word has in it tremendous capacity not only for growth but for future helpfulness. It can become "greater than all herbs," and we remember that the herbs in the Creation story, the first vegetation brought forth by the earth, represent the small beginnings of good and truth which man ascribes to himself.

The chapter ends with the stilling of the storm by the Lord, and the whole thought of the chapter is focused in verse 38: "And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?" Compare this with Psalm 107:23-30. As long as we have the letter of the Word in our minds, the Lord is present with us, and although we may imagine that the Lord is not caring for us when trouble and anxiety distress us, it is only because to us at that time He is, as it were, asleep in the hinder part of our ship. We really know that the Lord neither slumbers nor sleeps and that He cares for us always. It is we who are asleep to His presence and power, and we have only to call Him to remembrance in order to have our troubled sea become calm.

