
=== Intermediate

Use this lesson as a study in correspondence under the Lord's own instruction. Show the young people how basic and how far-reaching the Lord's explanation of the parable of the sower is. The other two parables are illustrations of this. Be sure also to call attention to the lesson taught in verses 21-25.

The parable of the sower is one of the best known of the Lord's parables, and one which all who read their Bibles can understand in some degree at least, because the Lord Himself explains it. We know that a parable is a story which has a meaning hidden within it. There are a number of stories in both the Old Testament and the New Testament which are recognized as parables,* but in the New Church we know that all of the Word is a parable, even though most of it is also true history.

[*The New Church collateral works of Edward Craig Mitchell treat forty-eight stories in Parables of the Old Testament, and forty in Parables of the New Testament. -Editor]

There is a reason why the Lord always speaks to us in parables (verse 34), and this reason is explained in verses 11 and 12 of our chapter. People often think that the Lord should have told us plainly all that He wants us to think and do. But suppose He had: would we all be able to understand it or be willing to believe it? And if, knowing that it came from the Lord, we refused to obey the truth, we should condemn ourselves and there would be no hope of our ever getting to heaven. The Lord has to teach us first in simple ways and lead us a step at a time. We can all understand the stories of the Word as stories, and they are interesting and stay in our minds, and then little by little their meaning grows on us and we begin to see how they apply to us.

The Lord could explain the parable of the sower because its application is general and no one would be disposed to deny it and so be hurt by it. We all know that people differ in the way in which they receive truth. Every teacher knows that he has some pupils who are like the hard—trodden path, or wayside, so set in certain ways of thinking that no new truth can sink in. He has some who like to listen but forget almost as soon as they hear — we call such people "scatterbrains." Then there are some who do listen and understand and mean to do their work, but when they get out of class, the temptation to play instead of work is too much for them. And then there are others who really profit by what they are taught in different degrees according to their aptitude. It is just the same with the way in which different people receive the truths the Lord gives us in the Word.

Then our chapter likens the truth we receive to the light of a lamp. It is meant to shine into every corner of our house (see Matthew 5:15) — you remember that our house is our character — and show us the things in us that need to be swept out. If we don't want to see our faults, we try to cover this lamp. We may cover it while we live in this world, but we can't hide our faults from the Lord, and when we come into the other world, everyone there will see them clearly. Our lamp is given us on purpose so that we may get rid of our faults before we die. Verses 24-25 are a parable which teaches us that if we do not learn to be good here, the knowledge of truth which we have refused to use will be taken away from us. Read Matthew 6:19-21.

Like the parable of the sower, the other two parables are about seed. The first teaches us that the truths we learn when we are children, even when we do not understand them, are cared for by the Lord, and that the Lord brings them up in our memory again when we need them and are ready to use them. Sometimes, we know, when some useful piece of information suddenly comes into our minds, we can't even remember where or how we learned it.

But we need to try to take in as much as possible of the Lord's truth and as little as possible of what is false. The Lord says, "Take heed what ye hear." We hear a great many wrong things in our daily lives; and sometimes we accept them without thinking, and they grow up in our minds all mixed up with the good, and we can't get rid of them until we begin to feel the harm they have done us. This is pictured by the Lord in another parable — read Matthew 13:24-30.

Every truth we learn is like the tiny mustard seed. It doesn't seem to amount to much to begin with, but it is capable of growing and putting out branches and becoming a great principle in which our wandering thoughts — like the birds — can find rest and shelter. For example, do you remember the first time you heard that the Bible is the Word of God? The knowledge was put into your mind like a little seed, and you accepted it because your parents or your Sunday school teacher said so, but it didn't mean much to you. But all the knowledge you now have of the Bible really grew out of that little seed, and think how many branches the tree has now, and it will keep on growing always.

