
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
After explaining what a parable is, have the class look up Nathan's parable (2 Samuel 12:1-19) and read it. Discuss it as showing why the Lord speaks to us in parables. Then have the children take up each parable in our chapter, thinking how it applies to themselves. The Juniors are old enough to begin to practice reading the Word in this way, and it is one way to stimulate their interest in reading it daily. What is a parable?

---
In our chapter, where is the Lord teaching?

Who are listening to Him?

What parable did He tell them?

To whom did He explain the parable?

In verses 11 and 12, the Lord tells us why He spoke to the multitude in parables. To help us understand what He means, let us read 2 Samuel 12:1-9. King David had committed a great sin. If Nathan the prophet had come to him and immediately charged him with it, David would have been angry and would have tried to justify himself. But Nathan told him about another man who had done wrong. The story seemed to have nothing to do with David; so he condemned the wrong—doer immediately. Then Nathan said, "Thou art the man," and David could not help seeing that he himself was guilty.

The whole Word of God is a parable. It seems to be talking about the doings of people who lived long ago. We can read their history and judge them, saying, "This was a good deed, and this a bad one. How could people turn to the worship of idols when the Lord had done so much for them? These people brought their own punishment upon themselves." Then there comes the voice of the Lord saying to us, "Thou art the man." We begin to look honestly at our own feelings and thoughts and conduct, and we see that we have done the same things just in a little different form. The Lord teaches us in this way because He knows how prone we are to defend ourselves and to blame others. In the parable of the sower, we need to understand that in those days seed was sown by being scattered broadcast and allowed to come up where it would.

What is the seed?

What are meant by the different kinds of ground?

What is the fruit which the seed should produce?

The next little parable (verses 21-22) does not seem to have much relation to the sower, does it? But read verses 23-25. You know that light is a symbol of truth. The Word of God is like seed planted in our minds, but when we "see" its meaning, it becomes like a light which "enlightens" our minds. You see, we use this same symbol language all the time. Now let us say to ourselves, "Thou art the man." This very lesson which we are studying today in Sunday school is seed which the Lord is sowing in our minds. Are our minds like the wayside, the hard—trodden path of selfish inattention into which nothing can sink, so that thoughts about ourselves, like the evil birds, carry off the seeds before they have time to sink in? Or do we listen and enjoy the lesson and then immediately get to thinking about something else and forget all about it? Or do we truly mean to do as the lesson teaches us, but give in to the first temptation which comes along? Or are we like the good ground? And then, if we do understand the lesson, do we let it shine into all the dark corners of our souls, or do we try to keep it hidden?

Some people think that verse 25 is very puzzling. Does the Lord really favor people who have plenty already? This shows how important it is always to study a verse in its "context," that is, with reference to what goes before it and what follows it. If we do this with this verse, we see immediately that by "he that hath" the Lord means the person who has not only received the good seed into his mind but has made it his own by using it in his life, the man who has used his lamp or candle of truth to "bring to light" and drive out the hidden faults and weaknesses of his character. But we know that seed which does not bring forth healthy growth dies, and a candle which is put under a closed container goes out. This is the man who "hath not" - who is bound to lose what he has.

There are two other parables in our chapter, both about seed.

We do not any of us use immediately all the truth the Lord gives us. We are like the man who sleeps and rises night and day. We have our times when the good in us is awake and active, and our times when it seems to be asleep. But if we use our daytimes rightly, the Lord takes care of the seeds of truth that have been planted in our minds and without our realizing how it has happened, makes each one grow and bear fruit.

And each tiny seed is capable, like the mustard seed, of growing into a great tree. We all have what we call "principles" that we live by which become stronger and more enduring all the time. They are the trees. Where did we get our principles? Each one grew up from a tiny seed — a little idea — planted in our minds at some time or other. If the seeds were truths from the Lord, our principles are good trees. But there are also weed seeds. Some of the ideas that come into our minds are not good. If we receive them and accept them as true, our principles will be bad. So we need to remember the Lord's advice in verse 24: "Take heed what ye hear."

