
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Tell the children the parable of the sower, reading a verse here and there, including some of the Lord's interpretation to show how the story has a hidden meaning. Then read verse 21 and explain simply what it means. Finally, read verses 26 to 34 and see what ideas the children draw from the two parables. You may be surprised at their understanding. Encourage them to think about what kind of ground they are and what kind they ought to be.

---
Our lesson today is about some of the Lord's parables. A parable is a story which has a meaning hidden within it. Did your mother ever say to you at night, "I know someone who is very sleepy"? What did she mean? She meant you, didn't she, although she seemed to be talking about someone else. That is a kind of parable. If she had said, "You are sleepy," perhaps you would have tried to make her believe you were not, because you didn't want to go to bed. But she made you look at yourself as if you were someone else, and you knew she was right. That is the way the Lord talks to us in the Word. He tells us stories about other people, but they are really about us. One verse in our chapter, as you will hear, says, "Without a parable spake he not unto them."

You know that none of us likes to have his faults pointed out to him. But we are all quite willing to see other people's faults.

The Lord knows us through and through.

So He can use even our weaknesses as a means of teaching us.

In the Word He tells us stories about other people, and we easily see the point of these stories when we are thinking of the other people.

Then He shows us that the stories are really about us.

The parable of the sower, with which our chapter begins, is very well known.

Afterward the Lord told His apostles the inner meaning of this parable, saying that the seed is the truth the Lord gives us in His Word and that the different kinds of ground are different kinds of people. The good ground means the people who learn the truths of the Word and try hard to live according to them.

When you are listening to the Word, which kind of ground do you want to be? Do you know the song which begins, "Jesus bids us shine"?

That song will help you to understand verse 21.

The other two parables in our lesson are both about seeds.

The things you are learning in Sunday school are some of these seeds of the kingdom of heaven.

Once they fall into your mind, the Lord can take care of them there so that when you need them, you will remember them — that is, if you want to be good. But if you don't come to Sunday school, you miss many of these seeds.

What did the Lord say about the mustard seed?

Sometimes what we are told doesn't seem very important to us at the time. But what does the mustard seed become?

What lesson does this teach us?

