
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class emphasize the lesson that all knowledge is for use in the service of the Lord and the neighbor, and that only if we have this desire in our hearts can we see the truth within the parables which form the letter of the Word. Then take up the individual parables with a brief explanation of the meaning and application of each. Be sure they understand what verse 25 means.

---
In our chapter for today we have the statement concerning the Lord that "without a parable spake he not unto them." This is true not only of the Lord when He was in the world but of all that He says to us in the Word. The whole Word is a parable. We are also told in this chapter why the Lord spoke in parables (verses 10-12) and that He explained some of His parables to the disciples when He was alone with them. The Lord was able to open something of the inner meaning of the Word to His close disciples because they had been willing to turn from their own concerns and their own ways of life in order to follow Him. Read also Luke 24:44-45. He can do the same for us if we are true disciples.

We read in the Doctrine of the @DSS, n. 57: "Enlightenment is from the Lord alone, and exists with those who love truths because they are truths and make them of use for life." All our knowledge of God and spiritual things comes to us by means of the letter of the Word, but without enlightenment we do not see the truth within the letter. And the Lord does not enlighten those who do not want the truth for the sake of living better lives. We can understand verse 12 if we remember that it is much worse for a person to have acknowledged the truth and then refused to try to live according to it than never to have acknowledged it at all. The Lord told Nicodemus (John 3:19): "This is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." So the Word is given in such a way that everyone may read it and understand the words and get from it some rules for their external conduct, but its deeper truth is hidden from those who would not profit by it.

There is another reason why the Lord speaks to us in parables.

Our understanding grows only with our development and experience, and yet we need to be prepared for the problems which we shall have to face. As we read the Word, we understand only as much as we are capable of understanding and using at the time, but the facts and stories which are in the letter stay in our minds and later, as we need them, the Lord can recall them to us and give us the understanding of their meaning. You remember, for example, that the Lord told the disciples many things which they did not understand and apparently forgot, but which they afterward recalled.

The parables in our chapter show us clearly the psychology of this method of instruction. Three of them concern seed, and the Lord Himself tells us that seed represents truths from the Word. In the parable of the sower the seed is scattered broadcast — the manner of sowing in those days — just as the letter of the Word is available to everybody. The different kinds of ground are the minds of different kinds of people who read or hear the Word. Some are like the hard—trodden wayside, so settled in selfish and worldly habits of thought that their false ideas destroy the truth as fast as they hear it. Some are like the stony ground, apparently receptive but so hard underneath that the truth cannot go deep enough to take root. Some receive the truth but, when it begins to develop in their lives, allow it to be choked out by worldly things. Others are like the good ground and in them the truth is received and carried out into life.

This is a simple parable and one we can all understand, and we all need to understand and think about it. That is why the Lord saw to it that His explanation of it was recorded in the Word. It is one of the seven parables which are found in three of the four Gospels. Verses 21 to 25 show us — again in parable — the importance of our thinking about it. Such knowledge is given us to use, and its use is like the use of a light, to bring into view the things in us which we might prefer to keep hidden, our weaknesses and faults. We remember that our house is our character. Matthew (5:15) says that when the lamp is set on a stand, as it should be, "it giveth light unto all that are in the house." We are reminded in verse 22 that someday we shall no longer be able to hide our faults. Our years in this world are the time for us to recognize and get rid of them. We cannot continue to hide them after we die, and by that time our eternal character is determined. If good predominates, the things which hinder our development will drop away and we can progress more and more. But if selfishness predominates, all that we have known of the truth will be taken away. This is what is meant by verse 25. "He that hath" is the one who has made the truth his own by using it to correct and develop his character.

The other two parables show how the truth is developed in us if we do use it. We do not cause it to grow ourselves any more than the farmer makes the seed grow. We merely clear away the obstructions. All life and growth are from the Lord. And every little seed of truth which we have really planted in our minds can be developed by the Lord into a great tree.

