
=== Adult

The change to the period of actual history should be pointed out and explained. Cover the general points of the lesson briefly and then ask for questions and develop further the indicated subjects.

Up to this point our lessons have been on the portion of the Word that Swedenborg says was copied by Moses from the Ancient Word, and we have not been dealing with historical fact in the letter. [See @AC 1401, but also see @DSS 103.] 

@AC 1140 and 1343 state that the first person mentioned in the Word who is a historical personage as well as a representative figure is Eber (Genesis 11:14), from whom the Hebrews took their name. @AC 1343 says that Eber constituted a Second Ancient Church, which came to an end in idolatrous worship in Terah, the father of Abram, and that Abram signifies a Third Ancient Church (@AC 1360), from or in which the Lord instituted the Jewish Church. The Second Ancient Church, like the First, recognized spiritual things and knew that its forms of worship had their value from their correspondence. It was in this church that sacrifices were instituted. But as the people degenerated, the knowledge of the spiritual meaning of the various acts and symbols of worship was lost until they regarded their images and sacrifices as holy in themselves, and became idolaters, knowing nothing of love for the Lord and the neighbor or of heaven and eternal life. So the Lord and the angels could no longer be present with men in their interiors — their hearts and minds — because they no longer had any internal thought, and because all real worship is internal, there could no longer be a real church on earth. Still the Lord had to keep His contact with men in order to keep them alive and to save those whose intentions were good. So He instituted the Jewish Church, which was not a real church at all but merely the representative of a church. One of the Epistles says of the Jewish priests who "offer gifts according to the law" that they "serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things" (Hebrews 8:5). The Hebrew nation was chosen by the Lord for this purpose not because they were a particularly religious people, as is commonly thought, but because they were a wholly external people, and could be led through fear of punishment and hope of reward, without interfering with their freedom, to carry on worship of Jehovah according to the particular forms which would correspondentially represent true worship, and so by the correspondence of these forms could keep the connection between heaven and earth. Their history could be so providentially directed by the Lord that, recorded in words, it would correspondentially express heavenly things and the divine life itself.

It is the history of this church which we are beginning now.

Abram was a man who lived on the earth and did things of which we read in the letter of the Word; but if he had been no more than that, the story of his life would be of no more value to us than the history of any other man. He is also a representative figure — representative of the Lord and of the celestial man — and everything that is recorded of him in the Word has a meaning with reference to the Lord's life and to our own lives. And we should remember that it is what the Lord chose to have recorded in the Word which has this meaning. The findings of archaeology with regard to conditions in Abram's time may be interesting to us as natural learning, but they add nothing to our understanding of the Word.

We have learned that the stories of the Garden of Eden treated of the rise and decline of the church in a celestial type of person, and that the stories of Noah treat of the rise and decline of the church in the spiritual type of person. Now we come to the development of a church among natural men. We are born natural men and women, and it takes a long time for us to develop on this natural plane; so the story is given us in detail, and every detail has a deep importance for us individually. The dealings of the Lord with the Jews throughout their history as it is recorded in the Scriptures picture His dealings with us in our progress through life. This is what makes the Bible the Book of Life for us.

Abram was called to make a journey. The symbol of a journey as the correspondent of progress through life is so woven into our common thought and speech that everyone should be able to recognize it. Indeed the journey of the children of Israel through the wilderness has always been recognized as a picture of the progress of the soul. Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress is a classic example of the use of this symbol. The very word progress embodies the same symbolism. We cannot talk at all without employing correspondences. In life we pass from state to state, from low to high or from high to low. Sometimes we go backward; sometimes we stand still. We reach lofty states of vision, like mountain tops, from which we can look back upon the whole of our life and see it in its true proportions, and forward to the new states we are approaching. We recognize this symbolism as a fact. But with Swedenborg's help — or rather, with the help of the Lord by means of Swedenborg — we are enabled to go further: we can understand the meaning of each detail in this Bible journey of Abram and apply it to our own experience. Abram was called to leave Ur of the Chaldees, the land of his birth, and go to the land of Canaan. The land of our birth is our natural inheritance of evil and falsity; the land of Canaan is a heavenly state. The Lord calls each one of us to turn our backs upon our natural selfish impulses and thoughts and, in obedience to His commands and under His guidance to travel toward a state of heavenly feeling and thought — thus toward heaven itself. We do not get there all at once. We sometimes tarry a long time in halfway states, as Abram tarried at Haran. Some of us, without actually going backward, stop halfway, as Nahor and his family did. If we go on with Abram and reach our goal, we do not remain in the first heavenly state we taste, which is pictured by Abram's stop at Shechem in the valley, but we go on to the higher country of Bethel. Each new heavenly state fills us with gratitude to the Lord, which is pictured by Abram's building altars wherever he stopped.

Then we come inevitably to a time when we feel a hunger for more truth. There was a famine in the land. "Behold, the days come, saith the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the Lord" (Amos 8:11). And we know that: "Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness; for they shall be filled." Spiritual hunger and thirst are meant by famine. Abram went down into Egypt. The land of Egypt is the Bible symbol of a state of learning on the natural plane - "the memory knowledge of knowledges," as it is called in @AC 1461. There was no rain from heaven in Egypt, but its land seldom failed to yield crops because it was made fertile by the annual overflow of the Nile and watered from it by irrigation. In the same way, our memory knowledge comes to us not from within but from without, and its fruit is stored up constantly waiting to be needed. Whenever there was a famine in the ancient world, its people knew that in Egypt they could buy grain. So Abram went down into Egypt; later Joseph went down, and was followed by all the children of Israel; and finally the Lord Himself as a babe was taken into Egypt. We should have no difficulty in seeing what these journeys into Egypt mean in our spiritual life. They mean procuring knowledge from the letter of the Word where the Lord has stored it up for us. Whenever there is a famine in our spiritual life, what we need is to go to the Word and read it and learn new truths from its letter, into which the spirit of the Lord may flow, enlightening us and giving us new spiritual power. But we are never to stay permanently in this mere learning state. We are to take our new riches back to the Holy Land as Abram did and use them in the Lord's service in our daily life.

