
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Set the young people's minds working on the correspondence of a journey to life. After you have pointed it out and illustrated it a little, they will be interested in thinking of other words and phrases in common use which are based on this correspondence, such as progressive and backward nations, the road to success, following in the steps of someone, taking the wrong road to happiness, standing still, the highroad to fortune, and the march of time. If they begin to think in these terms now, it will help their "feeling" for the correspondence of the whole Bible story.

---
Noah and his descendants picture a second great church, the Ancient Church, which the Lord had established on the earth. The Ancient Word — the Bible before our Bible — was written during the time of this church, and the delight of the people was the study of correspondences. But after a while man began again to turn from the Lord to self. People forgot the symbolic meaning of the images they had set up in connection with their worship, and they became idolaters. The breaking up of this second church is described in the story of the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11:1-9.

After the story of the Tower of Babel, chapter 11 tells us the names of the descendants of Shem, the first son of Noah. These people came to be called the Semites, and they lived in what is now called Asia Minor. The names in chapter 11:10-13, like all the names in the earlier Bible story, are not the names of individuals but of whole generations. In verse 14, however, we come to the period of recorded history. Swedenborg tells us that the first real person mentioned in the Bible story is Eber. His name would be more correctly written Heber, and it is from him that the Jews were called Hebrews.

So the people in our story for today are real people. But the story has an inner meaning just the same, and it also deals with the formation of a third church, the Jewish Church.

Look at a map and find Ur of the Chaldees. You see that the great desert of Arabia lies between Ur and the land of Canaan. So when the Lord told Abram to leave Ur and go to the land of Canaan, he had to travel a long way around the desert. Follow his route north along the river — the Euphrates — and find Haran. Haran was named for Lot's father, who had died before the family left Ur. Haran also came to be called the city of Nahor, because Nahor, Abram's other brother, settled there with his family instead of going all the way to the Holy Land. We shall hear of Haran very soon again. Terah, Abram's father, died in Haran, and only Abram and his nephew Lot and their families and servants went on.

In addition to the place called Haran we should try to remember the two places in the Holy Land where Abram first stopped and built altars — Shechem (Sichem) and Bethel. All the names of people and places in the Bible story are very important because of their spiritual meaning. Still another appears at the close of our lesson — Egypt. Egypt, where the Nile River kept the land always fertile, was the storehouse of the ancient world, to which people of other lands knew they could go for food in times of famine. We shall learn its meaning presently. Again and again in the Bible it is said that people went down into Egypt.

The story of the call of Abram in its inner meaning tells us of a call that comes to every one of us from the Lord: the call to leave selfish ways which "come natural" to us, and to travel toward the heavenly state of life which the Lord wants us to attain. The land of Canaan, the Holy Land, is the Bible picture of this heavenly state. It is in relation to this heavenward journey that every person and place has its spiritual meaning. Egypt pictures the great storehouse of facts which we need to know. You can easily guess what the famine pictures, but look up Amos 8:11. Again and again in our lives we come to situations in which we feel the lack of sufficient knowledge. Then we have to go down into Egypt. This is true of our spiritual progress also. We need often to "read and meditate upon the Word of God" — one of Swedenborg's Rules of Life — to increase our knowledge of what the Lord wants us to be and to do. This is a spiritual going down into Egypt. Coming back to the Holy Land is putting our new knowledge to use in the Lord's service.

