
=== Junior

The details of the story, with names and places, should be mastered. The Juniors will be interested in knowing that an h, one of the letters from the name Jehovah, was later put into Abram's name to indicate his closer relation to the Lord after he settled in the Holy Land. On account of later lessons special emphasis should be put on the settling of Nahor and his family in Haran, also called the city of Nahor. Be sure to have the children locate all the places on the map, and point out the great desert which caused them to go so far north instead of straight across. The meaning of the Holy Land, of Abram's call to go there, of the altars, and of going down into Egypt may also be touched on.

What finally happened to most of the people of the Most Ancient Church?

Who were saved?

How were they saved?

What did Noah take into the ark besides his family?

How long did the rain last?

After the flood the descendants of Noah repeopled the earth. At first they were good, but after a while they began again to want their own way and to think that their own ideas were better than the truth they received from the Lord. The story of the Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1-9) is a picture of how they tried to set themselves up, and had to be scattered to prevent them from destroying each other.

The rest of the eleventh chapter of Genesis is a genealogy. This means that it is a list of the sons and grandsons and great grandsons and so on of someone. In this case the someone is Shem. Who was Shem?

Who were his brothers?

The men in these old lists seem to live much longer than men do now, but that is because the names are not the names of real people but of whole groups of people, just as we might perhaps call the United States Uncle Sam and say, "Uncle Sam has lived over two hundred years." The first real person mentioned in the Bible was Eber, better written Heber, from whom the Jews were called Hebrews.

Our lesson today starts with a man named Terah.

Where did he live?

How many sons did he have?

We need to learn their names because we shall hear of all of them again.

Which one of the sons died in Ur?

What son did he leave?

What did the Lord tell Terah to do?

Trace on a map the route of the journey of the family from Ur. It was a long, slow journey. They did not have automobiles and airplanes in those days. They traveled on foot or on donkeys, and they took all their cattle and sheep with them. The cattle and sheep had to stop to graze every day. At night the people put up tents for themselves, and set a watch over the flocks and herds. Where did Terah stop?

We learn afterward that Nahor and his family stopped there and decided to go no further. They named the city Haran after the brother who had died before they left Ur, but it is also often called the city of Nahor. Try to remember this city because we shall have three stories in which it is important.

Why did Abram go further?

What did the Lord promise him?

Who went with him?

Into what land did they come?

The land of Canaan is also called the Holy Land; later it was called Palestine and today it is called Israel.

Where in the Holy Land did Abram first stop?

Where did he stop next?

We must remember the names of these places because we shall have stories about them later.

What did Abram build both times he stopped?

Why could not Abram settle in the Holy Land when he first got there?

What is a famine?

Where did Abram go because of the famine?

We usually call Abram Abraham. The Lord Himself later changed the name by putting in the h, which is one of the letters in Jehovah, the Lord's own name. And He changed Sarai's name to Sarah. This means that after they returned from Egypt and made their permanent home in the Holy Land, they came into a closer relation with the Lord than they had had before.

