
=== Primary

This is the children's introduction to Abraham (who was first called Abram), someone they will hear a great deal about. Be sure they learn his name. It is also their introduction to the Holy Land. They will also be interested in hearing about Abram's long journey and about the members of the family who started with him and those who did not go all the way. The group should remember Abraham, Sarah, and Lot, and should be told about the place called Haran or the city of Nahor. They should also learn the names of the two places in the Holy Land where Abram first stopped: Shechem and Bethel. Tell them about the building of the altars and what an altar stands for, and call their attention to the altar in the church and to the fact that a copy of the Word is kept on it. Impress upon them Abraham's obedience to the Lord and his gratitude to the Lord, as expressed in the building of the altars.

---
When the early people became so wicked that they had to be destroyed, who was saved?

How was he saved from the flood?

What can you tell about the ark?

Who were saved with Noah?

What else was saved in the ark?

After the flood was over, Noah and his family and all the animals came out of the ark to begin a new life on earth.

The first thing Noah did was to build an altar and worship the Lord. An altar is a sign of worship. In Noah's time most of the altars were built of large stones piled one on top of another. We have altars in our churches, too, but most of them are made of wood. Your Sunday School teacher will show you the one in your church. We always keep the Bible on our altars. That is because the Bible is the Word of God in which the Lord speaks to us and tells us what to do.

The Lord promised Noah that He would never again destroy mankind, and Noah promised always to obey the Lord. A two—way promise of this kind is called a "covenant." And the Lord gave Noah a beautiful sign of this covenant. Do you know what this sign was? It was the rainbow.

But Noah's descendants did not always keep the promise Noah had made to the Lord. They began to think that they could be wise without worshiping the Lord, and finally they became so conceited and selfish that they could not even get along with each other.

Do you remember the story of the Tower of Babel? This time, instead of destroying the people, the Lord scattered them over the face of the earth.

But again He found one family who were still willing to obey Him.

This family lived in Ur in the country of Chaldea, far to the east of Canaan. The father of this family was Terah, and he had three sons, Abram, Nahor, and Haran.

The Lord told them to leave their home and go to the land of Canaan. It was a long, hard journey, and they did not all go all the way.

They stopped at a place northwest of Canaan and Nahor decided to stay there. He named the place for his brother Haran, who had died before they left Ur, but it is also the city of Nahor. The old father Terah died there.

Who went on to the land of Canaan? Lot was Haran's son.

What did the Lord promise Abram?

Where did they stop first in the land of Canaan?

What was their second stop?

What did Abram build in each place?

Why did they go down into Egypt?

