
=== Notes for Parents

After the good king Josiah died, the people of Judah went back to their evil ways, and the time soon came when they could no longer be protected by the Lord. First the king of Egypt came in and made them pay tribute to him; then the king of Babylon took all the Holy Land away from the king of Egypt. For a time he allowed one or another of Josiah's sons to rule Judah under him, but they foolishly rebelled, and then Nebuchadnezzar destroyed Jerusalem and the temple and carried away to Babylon all but the poorest of the people.

The first of the people of Judah to be taken to Babylon — some time before the final destruction and deportation — were a group of the young princes, who were chosen, because of their ability and superior education, to be trained in all the learning of the Chaldeans, the native culture of Babylon, so that they could serve Nebuchadnezzar in special ways. One of these young princes was Daniel.

Many of the stories about Daniel are familiar to all of us. He was an outstanding example of the wisdom and courage which are developed through humility and obedience to the Lord. The story we have read for our lesson today tells how he came to be made one of the chief rulers of Babylon. It reminds us of the story of Joseph in Egypt. The account of Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the great image is a striking one, and we can all see in it a picture of how one who thinks himself wise and great gradually loses his wisdom and goodness and eventually is seen to be worthless. Daniel interpreted the dream to Nebuchadnezzar in terms of the future history of Babylon, but its application is much wider than that. Everything in the Word of God has deeper and deeper meanings as we continue to study it.

There are some things in the story which we should notice especially. First Daniel prayed to the Lord to show him the truth he needed, and he asked his friends to pray too. Second, when he went before Nebuchadnezzar to tell him the dream, he took no credit to himself for his knowledge, but said plainly that it was the Lord who was revealing the truth. And because of this, after the dream was explained, Nebuchadnezzar not only gave Daniel riches and power but also acknowledged Daniel's God as the greatest of all gods. In our daily life and in our work for the church we should realize that we do not lead people to the Lord by calling attention to ourselves or by trying to appear better and wiser than others. As parents we should watch for and check in our children the little beginnings of this tendency — which is in all of us — to self-praise and the desire to rule.

