
=== Adult

This is such a familiar story to the Adults that the teacher needs to give special thought to his preparation and to try to bring the material to them in a new way which will illustrate the depth and variety still untapped in even the best-known parts of Scripture.

The resurrection of the Lord changed history. After the crucifixion the disciples were completely discouraged. The Lord had told them that He would be put to death, but they had not really believed Him. He had told them that He would rise again, but they had not been able to imagine such a possibility. All the Gospels tell us that they would not believe until they actually saw Him. Thomas would not believe until he could touch the nail prints. Yet after the resurrection and ascension they went out into the world and preached the good news — the Gospel — without fear. Tradition says that all except John suffered martyrdom. Our natural reason alone should tell us that the Christian Church was not founded on a myth.

But the story of the resurrection shows us that it was not the disciples who rolled back the stone and revealed the empty tomb. It was a divine work. It is a divine work with us. The stone represents in this case the materialism of the people of that day which made them unwilling to acknowledge anything spiritual, and it represents similar materialism in all times. The sepulcher in which the Lord was laid pictures the letter of the Word, which must be opened if we are to see the Lord as a living and present being.

Three types of disciples appear in the Bible story of the resurrection. There were the apostles, who had been close to the Lord for three years and had been instructed by Him, and yet deserted Him when their earthly hopes seemed to be over. There were the two "rulers" of the Jews, Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, who had believed in Him without daring to acknowledge Him openly while He was alive, yet when He was dead came forth publicly and cared for His body. And there were the women, who loved Him for what He was, remained near Him throughout the hours on Calvary, watched to see where His body was laid, and returned to the sepulcher at the first opportunity to do what small services they could still perform for Him.

The disciples, like the twelve sons of Jacob, represent the faculties we have which enable us to serve the Lord. These faculties "mean well," but are very much under the influence of the materialistic thinking of the world. In the face of disappointment and apparent failure it is hard for them to take a firm stand. They are dismayed and doubtful. The two counsellors represent the principles which rule in our minds. These, if they are good principles, come out of hiding in times of discouragement and keep us in at least outward order. And then there are the women, the simple affections for divine qualities, which cling to the Lord in spite of appearances and, in the final analysis, are the ground of our reception of a true understanding of the Lord. This is taught in many places in the Word: "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God," "I thank thee, O Father ... because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes." And Swedenborg tells us: "The Lord flows with power into those who are humble; but not into those who are puffed up, because the former receive influx, but the latter reject it" (@AC 9039), "Those cannot possibly be in any enlightenment who have not as their end a life according to Divine truths from the Word; but who have as their end honor, gain, and reputation; and who thus regard the Divine truths of the Word as means" (@AC 10551), and "There is no other way than for a man to go to the Lord God the Saviour, and under His auspices read the Word; for He is the God of the Word; and man will then be enlightened and will see truths which reason also will acknowledge ... A man who reads the Word not under the Lord's auspices but under the auspices of his own intelligence, thinks himself a lynx and better sighted than Argus; and yet he inwardly sees not a shred of truth, but only what is false; and under self-persuasion this falsity seems to him like a polar star towards which he directs all the sails of his thought; and then he no more sees truths than a mole does, or if he sees them he bends them to favor his phantasies, and so perverts and falsifies the holy things of the Word" (@TCR 165).

We are told in Acts 1:3 that the Lord's post—resurrection appearances extended over a period of forty days. Mary Magdalene was the first to see Him. Then Mark refers to His appearance to the two disciples as they "went into the country," the incident more fully told in Luke 24:13-35. Then He appeared to the disciples in Jerusalem — Mark says "to the eleven," but John tells us that Thomas was not with them at that time but that he was present with the others eight days later (John 20:24-29). He had told them (Matthew 26:32 and Mark 14:28) that after He had risen, He would go before them into Galilee, and the angel messenger at the sepulcher tells the women to repeat this message to the disciples. Matthew tells of one of His appearances in Galilee (Matthew 28:16-17) and John of another (John 21:1-23). The ascension took place at Bethany (Luke 24:50-51). The account in Mark is very much condensed and yet he adds to the others the Lord's teaching concerning the power to be given to "them that believe."

This last teaching is found in verses 17 and 18 of our chapter.

The Lord had given similar powers to the seventy when He sent them out (Luke 10:19), but now He says that all who believe shall have them. We know that in the early church such signs were literally given. See Acts 5:15-16, 8:7, 9:18, 16:18, 19:12, 28:5-8. Some people think that one who has sufficient "faith" should be able to do the same now. But we read in the writings: "No one is reformed by miracles and signs, because they compel. It has been shown above that man has an internal and an external of thought, and that the Lord flows into man through the internal of thought into its external, and thus teaches and leads him; also that it is of the Lord's Divine providence that man should act from freedom in accordance with reason. Both of these would perish in man if miracles were wrought and man was thereby driven to believe" (@DP 130). The people in the Holy Land at the time of the Lord's Advent were so external that they were not compelled even by miracles, as is evidenced by the fact that those who had witnessed the miracles nevertheless rejected the Lord, but the Lord through His life and teaching on earth reopened the spiritual plane of thought, and when interior thought is possible, miracles compel and are disorderly.

Yet the promise of the Lord is always fulfilled spiritually with those who have true faith — the faith which leads to obedience. The devils who infest the will are cast out, a new understanding and speech are given, sense pleasures no longer injure, falsities heard or read do not poison the mind, and a new power is given to help others in times of weakness and disorderly living.

Easter should mean more to us than merely the assurance that we shall continue to live after the death of the physical body. It should impress upon us the fact that even while we are in the body the real and living part of us is the soul and the important thing from day to day is not what is happening to our body but what is happening to our soul. The body, whatever its physical condition, is only a tool for temporary use. We should keep it in reasonably good condition as we would any tool, but if we are doing our real work in the world well, we may trust the Lord to enable us to go on here as long as He sees best, and we may be sure that He is preparing within us the spiritual body which will serve us to eternity.

