
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What do we call this Sunday? Easter

Primary: What do we celebrate on Easter? Jesus' rising from death

Primary: What was last Sunday? Palm Sunday

Primary: Why was it called Palm Sunday? people spread palm branches before the Lord

Intermediate: Why did the Lord ride into Jerusalem on a donkey? sign of kingship

Junior: Why did the people welcome Him? thought He would be worldly ruler

Intermediate: Why did they turn against Him so soon? found out his kingdom was not of this world

Junior: What happened on Thursday evening of that week? last supper

Junior: What happened on Friday? crucifixion

Primary: Who came to the sepulcher on Sunday morning? two Marys, Salome

Primary: Why did they come? to anoint body

Junior: What question was in their minds? who would roll away the stone for them

Primary: What did they find? stone rolled away, the Lord gone, young man in white

Primary: What did the angel tell them? He is risen

Junior: To whom did the Lord appear first? Mary Magdalene

Junior: Did the disciples believe when they were told that He had been seen? no

Junior: What did He say when He finally appeared to them all? upbraided them for unbelief

Junior: What did He tell them to do? go and preach Gospel, baptize

Junior: What did He say about those who believe? will be saved

Junior: How did He leave them? taken up into heaven

Intermediate: What is pictured by the stone which sealed the tomb? materialistic thinking

Senior: Why did the women see the Lord first after He rose? they represent our affections for divine qualities

== THE BIRTH OF JOHN THE BAPTIST — Luke 1

The lessons we are taking from the Gospel of Luke do not in themselves depend at any point upon geographical background, and yet the pupils should be aware of the final divisions of the Holy Land as a completion of their map study for the year. It is suggested, therefore, that in connection with this lesson the Sunday school be shown a map of the Holy Land in the Lord's time, pointing out the three divisions and the location of Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Nazareth, the Sea of Galilee, Capernaum, the cross-Jordan country, and Jericho.

We have assigned the whole first chapter of Luke, which includes the annunciation to Mary, and with all classes above the Primary this should be taken up and the events of the Lord's birth as told in Luke 2 should be mentioned briefly. The principal lesson, however, is about John the Baptist, and this should be taken up as the fulfillment of the prophecy in Malachi.

