
=== Adult

The general line which seems indicated for development with the adults is the gradual encroachment of worldly reasoning and of self-satisfaction possible even after a regenerate state has been reached. The history of the divided kingdom is the picture of this most subtle and dangerous temptation of the adult life of the church member.

Hezekiah came to the throne in Judah in the third year of Hoshea, the last king of Israel. It was in the sixth year of Hezekiah's reign that Israel was carried away captive by Assyria, and the strangers from the eastern countries, whose descendants were to be the Samaritans of the New Testament, were brought in to resettle the land. This we recognize as a picture of the mind wholly given over to worldly ideas and reasonings. But when we have once experienced the state pictured by Solomon — the peaceful, victorious state in which our wills and our reason unite in serving the Lord — it is not so easy for our wills to change and become evil. The understanding changes more readily than the will, for better or worse, and this is pictured by the contrast between the history of Israel and that of Judah. Israel degenerated rapidly after the separation; its sovereignty was not passed down in unbroken succession; and its kings were consistently evil. Judah, on the other hand, remained loyal to a single line throughout its history, and many of its kings were good, although some weakness and compromise were found in most of them. The people of the land were idolatrous, but the kings endeavored to serve Jehovah. This is the state of our affectional life when we still wish to be good but have allowed our minds to turn from reliance upon the Word to reliance upon human reasonings. The ruling principle in our heart, the king, for a long time remains prevailingly faithful to the Lord, but our lesser desires and affections, the people of the land, are led to follow our wandering thoughts and become more and more corrupt until the king can no longer bring them back into order.

Hezekiah was one of the most thoroughgoing reformers of all the kings of Judah. There may come a time in our lives when we have fallen so far from our best state that we shock ourselves, and we decide upon a complete about-face. Hezekiah "removed the high places, and broke the images, and cut down the groves." He also "brake in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made," "rebelled against the king of Assyria," and "smote the Philistines." This is a picture of a thoroughgoing self-examination. @AC 2722 tells us, "In the Ancient Church holy worship was performed on mountains and in groves; on mountains, because mountains signified the celestial things of worship; and in groves, because groves signified its spiritual things." Later, as with many other representative forms, the significance was lost sight of and the thing worshiped for itself. So they even built themselves high places and made images of their groves, turning what was originally holy into idolatry. We do this when we cling blindly to forms and phrases of worship which no longer have any meaning for us, when we make the traditional externals of worship the all of religion. The Lord said of the scribes and Pharisees, "Ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith" (Matthew 23:23). To understand the meaning of Hezekiah's destruction of the high places read also John 4:20-23. Read the story of the origin of the brazen serpent in Numbers 21:4-9 and the reference to it in John 3:14-15. The brazen serpent properly pictures the glorified sensuous of the Lord through which we can receive power from Him to overcome our sense temptations. But the people had come to worship the brazen serpent as an idol, with no desire to correct their evils but only to keep out of trouble. In much the same way, the Christian church came to look upon the Lord's physical suffering as efficacious in itself and to believe that He would save men from the eternal consequences of their evils without any amendment of life on their part. Hezekiah also rebelled against Assyria, but he was not able to maintain his independence. Judah was saved from Assyria by a miracle performed by the Lord for Hezekiah because Hezekiah obeyed His commandment given through the prophet Isaiah. As long as we obey the Lord and trust in Him, no mere argument of the worldly reason can rob us of goodness.

But Hezekiah had previously tried to pacify the king of Assyria by giving him the gold and silver of the temple, even stripping the gold from the gates and pillars. His compromises — which picture our compromises with worldly reasoning — had weakened him greatly. So "in these days was Hezekiah sick unto death." The sickness of the good king means that the desire to be good had almost perished. Isaiah the prophet tells Hezekiah that he is about to die. But our story shows that even at this point, if we turn to the Lord and pray humbly that our good desires may be strengthened and renewed, we have the promise of the Word — Isaiah's second message — that we can be restored. Read Isaiah 1:18, Jeremiah 18:8, and Ezekiel 18:21. The Lord does not change His mind; the change is in us. So long as we are in this world it is never too late for us to turn to the Lord and try to change our ways; and if we do, we are sure of His help.

Boils and ulcers are pictures of some evil which has been hidden in the character and now breaks out into open misconduct. At Isaiah's command a lump of figs was placed on Hezekiah's boil and it was healed. The fig tree is the symbol of the natural man, and its fruit is natural goodness (@AE 403[17]). When we have sunk so far that we are living in open evil, the first thing necessary is to correct the outward conduct, to do good deeds instead of bad. When we get into such a state, for example, that we find ourselves constantly saying and doing disagreeable things to others on the slightest provocation, the first remedy to apply is to force ourselves to say something pleasant instead, and to find good that we can do instead of evil. But this is only the first step, the outward reform, and it will not last. Isaiah told Hezekiah that his life should be prolonged fifteen years, and fifteen is one of the symbols for "a little." In 2 Chronicles 32:25 we are told that Hezekiah did not profit by his lesson, for he "rendered not again according to the benefit done unto him; for his heart was lifted up." If we merely reform our outward conduct and continue to cherish pride and selfishness within, we receive no permanent benefit.

The sign given Hezekiah has always interested Bible readers.

Swedenborg tells us that the "steps of Ahaz" (translated "dial of Ahaz") picture the gradual decline of the Jewish Church. As Hezekiah was a good king, its time was prolonged. We may compare this miracle with that found in Joshua 10:12-13. In @AE 401[18] we are assured that the sun did not actually stand still — for that would have inverted the whole order of nature — but that the people were given a light from the Lord. Even in nature we know that the sun does not actually go down: it is the earth that turns away from the sun. So it is with the Lord, who is our Sun. The Lord never turns from us, but we turn from Him. When we turn to Him again, our daytime is renewed.

The rest of the chapter shows us the beginning of the end for Judah. Babylon pictures the worst form of self-love which makes one wish to dominate everyone and everything. The desire to impose our will upon others is the direct opposite of the Lord's love; yet this desire often comes into our hearts so gradually and in so pleasing a form that we do not recognize its evil nature until it has gained possession of us. Hezekiah's heart was "lifted up."

When we have done well and are enjoying the satisfactions of a good life, we are easily led to "show our treasures" to the enemy, and the love of dominion creeps in.

