
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

Apocalypse Explained (Introduction to chapter 1): "Many have expounded this prophetical book called the Apocalypse, but none of them understood the internal or spiritual sense of the Word. They have therefore applied the particular things in the book to the successive states of the church, which they have learned from histories; many things, moreover, they have applied to civil affairs. For this reason these expositions are for the most part conjectures, which can never appear in such light that they can be affirmed as truths. As soon, therefore, as they are read, they are put aside as speculations. The expositions of the Apocalypse now extant are of this character, because. as has been said, their authors had no knowledge of the internal or spiritual sense of the Word."

Apocalypse Revealed (preliminary Contents of chapter 1): "Verse 12. 'And I turned to see the voice which was speaking with me,' signifies the inversion of the state of those who are in the good of life as to the perception of truth in the Word, when they turn themselves to the Lord. 'And having turned I saw seven golden lampstands,' signifies the New Church which will be in enlightenment from the Lord out of the Word. Verse 13. 'And in the midst of the seven lampstands One like unto the Son of Man,' signifies the Lord as to the Word, from whom is that church. 'Clothed with a garment down to the foot,' signifies the proceeding Divine, which is the Divine truth. 'And girded at the paps with a golden girdle,' signifies the Divine love of the Divine wisdom in firsts and in ultimates. 'And His eyes as a flame of fire,' signifies the Divine love. Verse 15. 'And his feet like unto fine brass, as if glowing in a furnace,' signifies the Divine good natural. 'And his voice as the voice of many waters,' signifies the Divine truth natural. Verse 16. 'And having in His right hand seven stars,' signifies all the knowledges of good and truth in the Word from Him. 'And out of His mouth a sharp two—edged sword going forth,' signifies the dispersion of falsities by the Lord through the Word and through doctrine therefrom. 'And his face was as the sun shining in power,' signifies the Divine love and the Divine wisdom, which are Himself, and proceed from Him."

