
=== Intermediate

The correspondences in this lesson are simple and very helpful, especially in the three excuses. The Intermediates are reaching the age when many children begin to rebel against going to Sunday school, and the teacher can use this lesson in such a way that it will inspire them to continue. Point out that every new state and experience to which we come in life calls for fresh spiritual food, and that the Word is the Lord's table and we come to it when we come to Sunday school and church.

We wonder sometimes why there is so much in the Bible about eating and drinking. Physically, eating and drinking are essential to our life in this world. Everything we do uses up some of our bodily resources and they have to be continually renewed. The Lord has put into the world a wonderful variety of animal, vegetable, and mineral substances for this purpose. Also we are so made that we enjoy eating and drinking. And we like to eat and drink together. Perhaps the most universal way of showing friendship is the invitation to share a meal.

We are told in our chapter that the Lord went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees "to eat bread on the sabbath day." The Pharisees were the Lord's enemies. Because the people were flocking to hear Him, they pretended first to be His friends and to be willing to hear Him, too, but they were always hoping to catch Him in some teaching which they could say was contrary to the law. The Lord did not hesitate to accept their invitations although He knew their hearts. He was no one's enemy. But He never hesitated to tell them the truth. So in our chapter He first calls attention to the foolishness of the desire always to be first, and then He tells them a parable, as He often did when His plain teaching was not understood or not well received. The parable would stay in their minds and perhaps make them think afterward.

Our physical bodies, we know, are merely the clothing which our souls wear in this world. They are what they are because they serve and express attributes and powers which our souls possess. So from our physical processes we can know about the unseen things which go on in our souls. Our souls also need constant renewal. Spiritual food — goodness and truth from the Lord — is essential to our spiritual life.

So we may understand that in this parable today the man who "made a great supper and bade many" is the Lord, and we who call ourselves Christians are the invited guests. We know that in the Holy Communion — the Lord's Supper — the bread and wine picture the goodness and truth which the Lord provides for us freely. But the Lord's Supper, like the supper in the parable, is only symbolic of what the Lord offers us all the time. He gives us His truth in His word, and as we learn and obey it, His goodness flows freely into our hearts.

We all mean to accept the Lord's invitation. But all of us sometimes, when the time comes, make excuses. The three excuses in the parable are typical of the things which come between us and the full acceptance of the happiness which the Lord offers us. "I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it." We remember that ground pictures the minds of men. Sometimes we are too interested in our own ideas to read the Word and think about it. "I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them." Oxen represent affections for useful work. Sometimes, like Martha, we are so busy with what we consider necessary work that we have no time to sit at the Lord's feet and hear His Word. These two both asked to be excused. They recognized their obligation although they did not go. But the third man said, "I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come." He pictures our state when we have become fixed in the intention of going our own way, "wedded" to our selfish ideas and activities.

All the people who make these excuses are apt to consider themselves good — they count themselves among the Lord's friends. But they do not really want to learn from Him and obey Him because they think they have enough knowledge and goodness of their own. But in the parable the man found other people who were glad to accept his invitation. The poor are the "poor in spirit" of the first blessing (Matthew 5:3), those who are humble—minded. The maimed are those who have fallen into sins — like the man in our lesson on the Good Samaritan who had been robbed and wounded — and who feel the need of the Lord's help to become spiritually whole again. The halt, or lame, are those who recognize that they have weaknesses which make it hard for them to "walk in the way of the Lord." The blind are those who realize that they need more understanding of the Lord's teaching. These are the people who are eager to read the Word and to be helped to understand it and to find the strength which can come only from the Lord. Read Revelation 3:17. We are all spiritually halt and maimed and blind in one way or another. If we admit it, we shall accept the invitation to the Lord's table.

