
=== Adult

The special discussion topic for the Adults should be what it means in our individual life really to accept the Lord as our king, remembering that a king represents truth. It is not enough to have good intentions or even to do outward good works. We must study the Word regularly in the light of the writings of the Second Coming. The conflict which followed the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday and its result show us clearly where the temptation is and how and why we all too often yield to it.

---
We remember the correspondence of the three parts of the Holy Land: Galilee, the outer life; Samaria, the thought life; Judea, the life of the will. Whenever the Lord enters Judea, it is a picture of His desire to be present in our wills and to make them pure and holy. His final coming into Judea and His work there during the last week of His earthly life picture the searching of our inmost will to see whether it will receive or reject Him. Our lesson today shows that many of the people received Him gladly, recognizing Him as their king and savior; but we know that the political power in Jerusalem was still in the hands of His enemies and that they finally persuaded the people to reject and crucify Him. On the Sunday before the resurrection the Lord entered Jerusalem riding upon a donkey, as kings and judges had done in Old Testament times, and acclaimed as the "son of David," the Messiah, multitudes casting their garments in His path and waving branches of palms, the recognized symbol of victory. The multitudes acclaimed Him because they had seen His wonderful works of healing and resurrection. They thought they were ready to accept Him as their king. In much the same way, when we have recognized the power of the Lord to make over the external life, to restore the faculties men have allowed to become sick and even to die through neglect or abuse, we think we are ready to welcome Him into our minds and hearts as king.

A king is one who rules, whose laws his people accept and obey, who is looked to as the final authority. If we really accept the Lord as our king, we will obey His laws and recognize Him as our final authority — we will not merely call upon Him to save us from the consequences of our follies and misdeeds. Are we ready to do this? The final test for us is pictured in the results of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem. The Lord's rule is not always what we want it to be. He does not support our selfish desires and ambitions. His law often cuts directly across the path we wish to follow, and says "Stop!" In our hearts and minds are "priests and Pharisees," selfish feelings and thoughts which do not wish to submit to the Lord's rule, as well as a few loving "disciples" who wish to see Him on the throne. The "multitudes" are all our everyday thoughts and affections, which are swayed this way and that according to the deep currents of our souls. Our final test as Christians is whether or not we allow ourselves to be persuaded by our hereditary selfishness. For if we do, we shall finally reject the Lord's rule, even though we have seen it to be right and best. A great many of us see that the Christian life is the right and happy life and are willing to correct our ordinary conduct according to Christian principles and to learn to live an outwardly orderly life for the sake of the obvious benefits which result from such conduct. We are anxious to call ourselves Christians, to acclaim the Lord as king, because we see what Christianity has done for the world and for individuals. But when we really try to open our hearts and minds and submit them to the Lord's cleansing control, we find the chief priests and Pharisees too strong for us and yield to their insistence that we free Barabbas and crucify the Lord.

In Zechariah 9:9 it is prophesied that the Lord would enter Jerusalem "riding upon a donkey, and upon a colt the foal of a donkey." We learn from the writings (@AC 2781) that the donkey (properly translated "she—donkey") and colt picture the natural man as to good and truth, and that the Lord's riding upon them not only shows that He claimed the prerogatives of king and judge but also represents the fact that He subordinated the natural planes of mind and heart to the divine. In Mark 11:2, and also in Luke 19:30, the colt is said to be one "whereon never man sat." The Lord alone completely reduced the natural plane to order and made it serve its true use. In the statement that the disciples placed their clothes on the donkey for the Lord to ride upon we see pictured the attitude of the true disciple who submits his own ideas to the Lord's government and correction. The same thing is represented by the fact that the multitudes "spread their garments in the way." Palm trees picture "spiritual good, or the good of truth" (@AC 8369). The palm branches which the people carried and strewed in the way of the Lord thus represent genuine affection for divine truth, through which alone the Lord can be victorious in anyone's life and reign there as king. For this reason the ancient Hebrews were commanded to bring palm branches at the feast of the ingathering (Leviticus 23:40), palm trees were carved upon the walls and doors of Solomon's temple (1 Kings 6:29, 32), and the multitude who stood before the throne in John's vision had palms in their hands (Revelation 7:9). It is also said of the righteous, those who practice the truth and so are in the good of truth, that they "shall flourish like the palm tree" (Psalm 92:12).

This was one of the first fruits of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem — He went into the temple and drove out the money—changers and overthrew the seats of those who sold doves, those who were profaning the temple by turning its worship to their own selfish advantage. The temple, the Lord's house, is the symbol of the church in each one of us. It is meant to be a "house of prayer." That is, the purpose of worship is to open the mind and heart to the Lord, acknowledging our weakness and need, and seeking instruction and help. But the temple had, both literally and figuratively, become a den of thieves. The sale of animals for sacrifice and the changing of ordinary money into the shekel of the sanctuary had come to be carried on for profit within the very court of the temple itself. And the scribes and Pharisees had come to use their outward piety to win reputation and power for themselves. The money—changers picture the use of the Scriptures for selfish ends, and the vendors of doves trading on pretended piety to win reputation and honor. Therefore the cleansing of the temple was one of the first things the Lord did after He entered Jerusalem as king. When the Lord is received into our inner lives as king, the selfish motives which have previously been in our religious life are exposed. Why have we called ourselves Christians? Has it always been from a genuine desire to learn of the Lord, to see our own faults, and to obtain the Lord's help in overcoming them? How often do we go to church to be seen of men? How often do we give because we are ashamed not to instead of because we really want to? How often do we sit in church and think how the sermon applies to someone else? The genuine recognition of the Lord leads us to recognize these attitudes of mind for what they are and to try with all our might to drive them out.

It is significant that the Lord did not spend the night in Jerusalem, but lodged with his friends Mary and Martha and Lazarus in Bethany. It is in our daytime states, when we are able to see clearly, that we make progress against our evils. And in the morning we have the incident of the fig tree. In the triad of olive, vine, and fig, the fig represents outward conduct, good in the outward life. And as the church of that day was a wholly external church, the fig tree was its special symbol. So the Lord's finding no fruit on the fig tree is symbolic of the fact that that church no longer bore its proper fruit and had come to its end as the representative of the Lord's church in the world. So the fig tree withered away. This little incident was a divinely appointed herald also of what the people were about to do to the Lord, destroying their own life by rejecting Him. We, too, die spiritually when we do not "practice what we preach."

