
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The best point to discuss with this age group is perhaps the correspondence of the donkey and the necessity of submitting our natural reason — which judges according to appearances — to the rule of the Lord's truth. Remind them of our study of Saul.

---
In thinking of what Holy Week should mean to us, we should ask ourselves if we are like those people long ago who welcomed the Lord as king on Palm Sunday and put Him to death the following Friday.

Palm Sunday was the first day of the last week of the Lord's life on earth. He and His Apostles were coming to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. The Lord had told them that He was to be put to death, and they had tried to persuade Him not to go. But the Lord rebuked them. He came to His death willingly, as a part of the work He had come into the world to do. So we should think of the cross as the symbol of victory over self, which the Lord won and which He gives us the power to win if we are faithful to His teachings.

The Lord rode into Jerusalem on a donkey, after the fashion of kings and judges. The donkey is the symbol of the natural reason, the thing we call common sense. Do you remember our lesson about Saul? Often the "common—sense" thing, the thing which seems to promise most immediate practical returns for ourselves or even for others, is not at all the thing which is wisest in the Lord's sight and so in the long run. Sometimes when we are being urged to do the right thing instead of the easiest thing and are tempted to say, "What's the sense of going to all that trouble?" it may help if we say to ourselves, "There speaks the donkey." The Lord was the only one who ever really mastered this donkey — that is, who ever brought the natural reason wholly under the control of divine truth.

What does it mean to accept the Lord as our king? First, it means that we really acknowledge that He is the one who is ruler of our life and that His laws are the laws to be obeyed. This is to cast palm branches before Him, for the palm tree is the symbol of the principle that the Lord alone can save us. Then we should determine that whenever we find that our ideas are not in accordance with the truth He gives us in His Word, we will give up our ideas. This is pictured by the people's casting their garments before the Lord. Our garments are the ideas in which our affections clothe themselves.

But the first act of the Lord after His triumphal entry was to drive the money—changers and vendors of doves out of the temple. What does this mean? The money—changers and vendors of doves symbolize all the selfish thoughts and feelings which have crept into our minds and hearts and are interfering with our true worship of the Lord. Can we stand having these driven out? The priests and scribes could not stand it, and they did not like to hear the innocent children crying "Hosanna" to the Lord. They did not want their rule interfered with. And the people, in spite of the miracles of healing which the Lord also wrought in the temple, listened to the priests. The incident of the fig tree on which the Lord found no fruit is added here because it pictures the condition of the church, which carried on what looked like worship but which produced no fruits of good character and good works. Are we like the people of that time? Do we go to church and Sunday school and learn to know the Lord and His laws and then in our everyday life let our selfishness rule us and lead us to put the Lord and His truth out of our minds?

