
=== Junior

These children can get a good deal of the correspondence of this lesson, especially of the donkey, the palm branches, and the garments. They should look up the various references in the Old Testament and see how many prophecies were fulfilled literally. And the general lesson for their own lives should be impressed upon them. Children of this age are usually eager to learn and quick to receive, but equally quick to forget in the face of their daily environment. The surprise they will feel at the fickleness of the crowd can be made helpful to them if they were led to see how the same thing is true of themselves.

---
Today we commemorate the first day of the last week of the Lord's life on earth, and the events of that day.

Why is today called Palm Sunday?

What city was the Lord coming into?

What did He ride on?

It was the custom for kings and judges to ride upon donkeys. The donkey, you know, is very sure—footed but also very stubborn and unwilling to be directed by his master. The donkey is a picture of our natural reason, our "common sense," which always looks at the ground and never up to heaven. It leads us along very well in worldly matters, but there are many things it does not see. For instance, it is sometimes very hard for us to admit that unselfishness is really better and wiser than selfishness. Our common sense says, "unselfishness doesn't get you anywhere." This is the donkey speaking. The colt on which the Lord entered Jerusalem was one "whereon yet never man sat" (Luke 19:30). That is, the Lord was the first one ever to bring this power of the natural reason wholly under subjection to higher principles. Look up Zechariah 9:9 to see how the Lord was fulfilling prophecy.

When the Lord rode into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, His disciples hailed Him as king, casting their own garments and branches of the palm trees in His path for Him to ride over. This is a picture of what we should do. Our "garments" are the thoughts in which our feelings are dressed, and the palm branches are symbols of our belief in the Lord as our savior. All our own ideas should be submitted to the judgment of the Lord's truth, if we really recognize Him as our God and king.

What did the Lord do in the temple?

Doves were used as sacrifices. The law said that all the animals and birds used as sacrifices had to be perfect. Many people bought their doves to sacrifice after they reached the temple, but even when they brought their own, it was not hard to find some small flaw and make them buy others. The temple offering had to be made in the "shekel of the sanctuary," and this was not a common coin. The money changers charged a fee for the exchange. The passage the Lord quoted is found in Isaiah 56:7 (cf. also Jeremiah 7:11).

The chief priests and scribes did not like to hear anyone praised but themselves, and they were afraid of the Lord's popularity. So the Lord again quoted Scripture to them. Read Psalm 8:2.

Where did the Lord go to lodge overnight?

The Lord had friends there. Look up John 11:1-5 and Luke 10:38-39. What happened to the fig tree because the Lord found no fruit?

This is a picture of what happens to the soul of anyone whose religion does not bear the fruit of good deeds. The church of that day was in this state. When the Lord came to Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, He knew that He would be put to death. He could have saved Himself as He had many times before, but He knew that His death on the cross was necessary to the finishing of His work and to our salvation.

