
=== Senior

This class needs especially the reminder of the fickleness of the people and its result. Most young people "mean well" and are easily inspired to good resolutions, but many are as easily persuaded to break them when their everyday environment is worldly. Emphasis should be put on the story of the cleansing of the temple and its meaning.

---
We are all so familiar with the story of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem at the beginning of the last week of His life on earth that we need only review its meaning. Jerusalem stands for the place we have made for the Lord in our minds. He reigns there as king just so far as we actually accept the rule of divine truth. He enters riding upon a donkey when we submit worldly reasonings to the control of spiritual principles. We cast our garments before Him when we are willing to give up our own ideas if we find that they are contrary to His teaching, and palm branches when we acknowledge His saving power. Then He can cleanse the inner temple of our souls, driving out false thoughts and selfish desires. And it is the "little children" in us, the innocent and trustful states, which are to be listened to.

The triumphal entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday was, as the Lord knew, really the beginning of the end. But the temporary support of the multitude gave Him an opportunity to cleanse the temple and to teach there, as He did during the first two days of the week, denouncing the scribes and Pharisees openly and prophesying the end of the age, which was necessary to the establishment of a new, genuine church. The fig tree which bore no fruit is a picture of the condition of the church in His time. In much the same way, there are moments in our lives when the sense of the Lord's kingship and power is so strong that we can see our own sins and hypocrisies in clear light and condemn them. Unfortunately, also like Jesus' contemporaries, we soon lose this fervor amid the temptations of our daily environment, but its effect persists and strengthens our small beginnings of regenerate life.

We think of the Palm Sunday lesson as a joyful one, and yet it is always shadowed by the thought of the dark events to come. The Lord's triumphal entry into Jerusalem actually took place "in the shadow of the cross." It should be a warning to us to examine ourselves carefully, to be steadfast in temptation, to let no selfish ambitions or fears rob us of our high purposes and lead us to crucify our king. Holy Week should be a time of humble self-examination, when we expose the scribes and Pharisees in our own minds and hearts and restore the states of innocence and trust and love which will enable us to partake worthily of the Holy Supper and to rejoice in the assurance of the risen Lord.

