
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What is today called? Palm Sunday

Junior: What does the day commemorate? the Lord's triumphal entry into Jerusalem

Primary: What did the Lord ride when He entered Jerusalem? a donkey

Primary: What did the disciples put on the donkey? their garments

Primary: What did the people strew before the Lord as He rode? palm branches and garments 

Primary: What did the multitude cry? Hosanna!

Junior: Where did the Lord go when He entered Jerusalem? the temple

Junior: What did He do there? drove out money—changers and dove—sellers

Junior: What did He say about the temple? it was to be a house of prayer

Junior: What else did He do in the temple? healed the blind and the lame

Junior: Where did He go to spend the night? Bethany

Junior: Who lived there? Mary, Martha, and Lazarus

Intermediate: What is pictured by the Lord's riding into Jerusalem on a donkey? that He alone had brought His natural reason under divine control

Intermediate: What do the palm branches picture? that the Lord alone can save

Senior: What does it mean in our lives to accept the Lord as king? to acknowledge that His laws rule our lives and are to be obeyed

== THE LORD'S LAST DAYS ON EARTH — Matthew 26; 27

Part of the lesson time must be spent upon the literal story of the the trial and crucifixion to be sure the order of events is known. The principal effort should be to bring out the thought that the cross symbolizes victory, the victory of the Lord's goodness and truth over all the forces of evil. It should also be pointed out that the Lord's victory can enable us to conquer, if we accept His guidance and look to Him for strength. We must obey Him if we are to be partakers in His victory. In telling of the betrayal suggest that we also may betray the Lord by not trying to live according to the teachings we profess to believe. All the classes should be told that the Holy Supper was instituted by the Lord during His last celebration of the Passover, and that it takes the place of the Passover for the Christian Church.

