
=== Adult

The story and its meaning should be so familiar to the Adults that it needs only a brief review, and most of the time can be spent on the controversial incident of the fig tree and the statement about faith and prayer. The reason for the variation in the order of events in the four Gospels should be mentioned.

---
We are all familiar with the story of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem at the beginning of the last week of His life on earth, and probably with its general correspondence. He fulfilled the prophecy in Zechariah 9:9. The people knew the prophecy and also that it was the custom for kings and judges to ride on mules and donkeys. Read Judges 5:10, 10:3-4, 12:13-14, 2 Samuel 16:1-2, 13:29, and 1 Kings 1:33, 38, 44. They had no doubt that they were welcoming the Messiah who was come to be their king and savior. Palm leaves have always been the victor's award. The palm tree represents the principle that the Lord alone saves. The cry of the people — Hosanna! — means, "Save, we pray thee!" This word, which in our English translations of the Bible appears only in the New Testament, was in common use in the musical service of the temple.

The translators of the Old Testament translated instead of transliterating it.

The donkey's colt "whereon never man sat" pictures the natural reason, which only the Lord fully mastered from beginning to end in His earthly life. Our natural reason, like the donkey, is very surefooted but looks always at the ground and is stubborn and willful. It is a very necessary and useful faculty, but it must be kept under control. We remember that Abraham, when he was moved to sacrifice Isaac, "rose up early in the morning, and saddled his donkey." His natural reason, which would have rebelled against such a sacrifice, had to be prepared to obey. Our natural reason is the first reason we develop as we come out of infancy. Mark — alone of the four Evangelists — tells us that the two disciples "found the colt tied by the door without in a place where two ways met." The "door" is the entrance to our souls — the same door at which the Lord stands and knocks (Revelation 3:20) - and the natural reason is tied to it on the outside, the side where our senses connect us with life in the material world. In that life from the beginning two ways are set before us, the way of self-interest and the way of the Lord's service. It is safe to "loose" the donkey only if he is to be brought to the Lord. We "bring the colt to the Lord" when we are willing to rethink our natural ideas in terms of the Lord's teaching concerning eternal values. We "cast our garments before the Lord" when we submit all our thinking to the test of comparison with the truths of the Word. A king is one whose laws are acknowledged and obeyed. We welcome the Lord into Jerusalem as king when we accept His precept and example as the inmost law of our life.

In the Gospel of Mark the order of events is slightly different from the order in the other Gospels, and we need to remember that the order as well as the words was preserved under divine inspiration. The development in each Gospel has its special use. There are three major events in our chapter which follow the Lord's entry into Jerusalem, and they represent the immediate effect on heart, mind, and conduct of the Lord's entry into our souls as king and judge. The cleansing of the temple is the examination of our motives; the incident of the fig tree pictures the judgment of our conduct; and the question posed by the chief priests, scribes and elders, and the Lord's answer to it, search our thoughts.

In this Gospel the first two incidents are interwoven. As in Matthew and Luke, the Lord is said to have gone directly to the temple, but in Mark it says He merely looked about and then, because evening was come, went out to Bethany. In the morning, as He came toward Jerusalem again, He looked for figs on the fig tree and finding none said, "No man eat fruit of thee henceforth forever." Then He entered the temple, cast out the money-changers and dove-vendors, and told them they had made His house a den of thieves. Again He went back to Bethany for the night, and in the morning on the way to Jerusalem the disciples noticed that the fig tree was withered away.

The incident of the fig tree has been a favorite point of attack on the authority of the Bible story, the argument being that certainly the Lord would not have been so petulant as to curse a tree for having no fruit on it when it was not the season for fruit. That there is something more in the story than this we should know from the parable of the barren fig tree in Luke 13:6-9. Swedenborg tells us that the Lord had to open the Word in order that belief in it might not perish. See the quotation from @AC 885 below regarding the incident of the fig tree.

The direct cause of the barrenness of the church was the perversion of their worship through self-love. So the cleansing of the temple — the exposure of this self-love — followed immediately. Then the result became apparent in the withering of the fig tree. That the cursing of the fig tree was no careless outburst should be evident from verses 21 and 22, for when Peter called attention to the fact that the fig tree was withered, the Lord's answer was, "Have faith in God." The verses which follow have also often been brought into question, but this is because of a wrong idea of what religious faith is. We understand well enough what faith is in every other field. If we have faith in a doctor, we follow his advice. If we have faith in a friend's honesty, we believe what he says and act accordingly. But men seem to think that a man has faith in God if he merely says, "I believe in God," whether he knows and obeys God's teachings or not. We should know better. True faith — which involves the belief that the Lord is all-wise as well as all-powerful - is a prerequisite for the fulfillment of the promises in verse 23 and 24. Read @AE 405[53].

Finally we have the question posed by the chief priests, scribes, and elders: "By what authority doest thou these things?" This is the reaction of the self-satisfied mind to the impact of the Lord's coming. Its immediate thought is, "What right has anyone to tell me what I ought to be and to do?" "Why should I believe the Bible?" And the Lord's answer is the one unanswerable one: "The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?" The people believed John to be a prophet. All our common mental faculties recognize that virtue is better than vice, unselfishness better than selfishness, humility better than pride — that is, that the precepts of the Lord present the true ideal of what life ought to be. If we deny these things, we put ourselves outside the pale of common decency. But if we accept them, we are admitting their right to authority, and condemning ourselves.

So the Lord put squarely before the religious leaders the question of accepting or rejecting Him. That they rejected Him we know, and their rejection brought their dispensation to an end. If we accept the Lord as our king and savior, we must accept His laws as the laws of our life. We must "loose the donkey" only to bring him to the service of the Lord.

