
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Start by telling the children what day this is and why it is called Palm Sunday. Then give the introductory connections in a simple way before reading the lesson from the Word. Read the children the prophecy in Zechariah 9:9 to show them why the people knew that this was the Messiah. Be sure they know the meaning of the words Messiah, Christ, and Hosanna. Tell them briefly what happened between Palm Sunday and Easter which leads us to call this "Holy Week."

---
What is the New Testament story about?

How many Gospels are there?

Gospel means "good news."

You remember that all through the Old Testament story the people were growing more and more wicked.

The good people who were left were unhappy about it.

They clung to the promises given them through the prophets that someday the Lord would come into the world as the Messiah to save them.

So His coming and His life were good news.

We have learned how He came into the world and how He began His ministry. We shall have more lessons about that ministry.

But today and next Sunday are special days.

What are they called?

Of what did the Passover feast remind the Jews?

The Lord went up to Jerusalem every year for this feast.

The Lord and His disciples were on their way to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover. The Lord, because He was God, knew that this was the very time when His enemies, who hated Him because He pointed out their wickedness, would seize Him and put Him to death. He had told His disciples this and they had begged Him not to go. But He told them that it was necessary for Him to do everything that had been prophesied about Him, and also that He would rise again from the dead.

He had to pass through death and rise again to fulfill the prophecies and to teach us what death really is, so that we would not be afraid of it.

How did He enter Jerusalem on Palm Sunday?

The other Gospels tell us that the colt was a donkey's colt. Do you think it was strange that the Lord chose to ride on a donkey? It was not strange to the disciples who believed Him to be the promised Messiah, for it was the custom in that country for kings and judges to ride on donkeys, and they knew the Messiah was to be both king and judge, and it had also been prophesied that He would come riding upon a donkey's colt.

The word with which the people hailed the Lord — Hosanna — is a Hebrew word which means, "Save, we pray thee." The trees which the people cut branches to strew in His path were palm trees. That is why we call this Sunday "Palm Sunday."

