
=== Senior

Use this familiar lesson to introduce a discussion of what true faith is and our constant need of faith in the Lord instead of faith in ourselves.

---
Each of the Gospels differs just a little from the others in its account of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday and the events immediately following it. The Gospel of Mark places the incident of the cleansing of the temple on the day following, John places it near the beginning of the Lord's ministry, and Matthew and Luke make it His first act upon entering the city on Palm Sunday. We should note that the order of events is important only as it affects the internal sense, and that the recording of the sequence of events in the various Gospels was under the control of divine providence, and each sequence has its own purpose. Only Matthew and Mark record the incident of the fig tree. John does not record the question of the Pharisees concerning the Lord's authority. In Mark and Luke the animal on which the Lord rode is called merely a colt, but John calls it a young donkey and Matthew says that the disciples were sent to find "a donkey tied, and a colt with her." The prophecy which the Lord fulfilled in this journey is found in Zechariah 9:9: "Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, thy King cometh unto thee; he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon a donkey, and upon a colt the foal of a donkey." That kings and judges were accustomed to ride on mules and donkeys we learn from many passages of Scripture. The people knew this custom and they knew the prophecy. So they hailed the Lord on that day as the promised Messiah, the king of the line of David who was to come as their savior. Hosanna means, "Save, we pray thee."

The Lord was the Messiah. He did come as king and savior. But, as He told Pilate at the time of His trial, His kingdom is "not of this world" (John 18:36). The people were expecting a king who would overthrow the power of Rome and restore their nation to prominence. As soon as they realized that Jesus had not come to Jerusalem for this purpose, they turned against Him and put Him to death.

The state in which the church was in those days is pictured by the incident of the fig tree which withered away because the Lord found no fruit on it. The fig tree represents the natural man and the external church. If these do not bear the fruit of good works, there is no spiritual life in them. The same condition is pictured in the incident of the cleansing of the temple. The people then were using their religion for selfish ends, just as people sometimes use it today, joining whichever church they think will be most profitable for their business interests or for their social position or as a cover for their own un-Christian practices.

What does the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday mean in our individual lives? Jerusalem and the temple always represent the inmost place in our lives where the Lord should dwell. Swedenborg tells us many times that a person's idea of God is what really governs his life. If we form our idea of God from our own selfish character, we shall be governed only by considerations of self-interest. If we believe there is no God, we shall be blown about by the shifting winds of materialistic thought. If, however, we believe the Lord Jesus Christ to be God, we shall govern our lives according to His precepts and example.

In Mark's account of this incident there is one verse (verse 4) which adds a very striking detail not found in the other Gospels. The two disciples "found the colt tied by the door without in a place where two ways met." We remember that the donkey pictures the natural reason, that faculty which enables us to "put two and two together," to see the connections among the things we take into our minds through the senses and their bearing on our everyday life in the world. It is a very necessary faculty, the first one we have to develop as we pass out of our infancy. It is, just as our verse says, "tied by the door without," at the very entrance of our souls. It is said to be "tied" because it is not safe to give this natural reason its freedom. The donkey is a useful animal but a willful and stubborn one. It is very sure-footed, but it looks at the ground. Our natural reason, if left to follow its own direction, sees nothing above the things of the natural world. The particular donkey in our story was a colt "whereon never man sat." It was in a place "where two ways met." It had never been made to go in either direction. When we are very young, our natural reason is in just this position. The two ways picture the choice which is offered us, the choice between our own selfish way and the Lord's way. The colt can be safely loosed if it is to be brought to the Lord for His service. That is, if we recognize the Lord as our God and accept His direction, our natural reason will readily perform its true function of confirming spiritual truths by means of natural ones. To the man who believes in the Lord, "The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament sheweth his handiwork." We all find our natural reason unruly many times during our lives. The Lord was the only one who actually rode the donkey's colt into Jerusalem, i.e., completely controlled His natural reason.

The same truth is carried further in the other details of the story. The disciples put their garments on the colt for the Lord to sit on, and the people threw their garments in the road on which the Lord was riding. Our garments are the ideas which clothe our minds. These must be submitted to the judgment of the Lord's truth. And the palm branches were also cast before the Lord. Trees represent our general principles and their branches the more specific principles which grow out of them. These must likewise be submitted to the Lord. The palm tree in particular represents the principle that all goodness and truth come from the Lord alone.

There is a beautiful coherence in this chapter in the internal sense. First we are shown what it means to acknowledge the Lord as our king and savior and we are warned against the danger of hypocrisy. Then suddenly in verse 2:2 the Lord says: "Have faith in God," and tells His disciples that if they have faith, anything they ask will be granted. This has puzzled many people, but we should see that the Lord has been showing us that faith is not an empty statement of belief but is the kind of belief which includes obedience. If we really have faith in God, we shall believe that His ways are right, and the things we ask for will be things which He can grant because they will be good for us and for others. The mountains we shall be able to remove are the "high places" of self-will and self-intelligence which stand in the way of our spiritual progress.

