
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the reason why the commandments were given as they were, and the primary importance of those on the first table. Then run through the ten, suggesting the deeper meaning of each, based on the outline given in the Senior notes. Finally call for questions and let these determine the points for further discussion.

---
Egypt is behind, but an unknown land, barren and rocky, is now being entered. When we take as an example the breaking of a bad habit, we know that one victory does not finish the conflict: it merely shows us that with the Lord's help we can conquer, if we go forward bravely. The story of the first two months of the journey of the Israelites through the wilderness pictures some of the experiences which come to us in the earlier stages of our period of reformation. They had to be undergone before the people arrived at Mount Sinai, where their nation was to be organized and fully instructed. They reached Sinai in the third month of their journey and camped at the foot of the mount.

The external laws embodied in the ten commandments were known long before the time of Moses: they are the basis of the oldest code of laws known to history. People who think of the Bible as a merely human composition have argued from this that the story of the giving of the commandments from Sinai is not a true story but merely an adaptation of an old myth. Swedenborg, however, explains why the Lord found it necessary to give the commandments to the children of Israel in such an impressive way. It was not because men did not know them, but because men had forgotten that they were the laws of God and thought of them as man-made rules which might be set aside or outgrown. Some people think of them in this way today. Not too many years ago a book was written by a Christian minister to prove that some of the commandments are out-of-date. But they are not out-of-date and never will be, and the Lord wished us to be very sure of this.

So there were thunders and lightnings, and Mount Sinai was covered with smoke, and all the people heard the voice of the Lord when He gave the commandments. And then they were written by the finger of God on two tables of stone that they might be preserved. They are divine laws, the foundation of all right and happy living both for the individual and for the social group.

We are told that there were two tables of stone. The laws of the first table were those telling of our duty to the Lord, and those of the second table were those telling us our duty to our neighbor. Many of these laws are prohibitions. This makes them seem harsh to those who do not want to obey them. But they must be put in this form for just these very people, which means for all of us part of the time. We are all often in a state of not wanting to do what we ought to do. In the story the people were not ready to receive the truth as it first came from the Lord on tables of stone taken from the top of the mount. We ourselves are not always willing to take the loving suggestions of our family and friends or to obey the Lord from love of Him. We persist in doing wrong, and the same advice, prompted by the same love, must take the form of stern command and harsh prohibition in order to reach us and affect our conduct. The second set of tables was hewed by Moses from stone found at the foot of the mount, which pictures the putting of truth in a form which would reach men in low states of life. We all need it in this form before we are prepared to see divine love and mercy showing through the harsh letter. We must stop doing wrong before we can learn to do right (Isaiah 1:16-17).

The Lord wants us to be happy, but we cannot be happy if we do any of the things forbidden by the commandments or if we neglect to do any of the things required by them. They are the foundations of a happy life. When you are driving along the road in your car, you see a great many signs which tell you where the road leads and how to get where you want to go. Then — very often, it seems — you come to a sign which says Stop. You do not always want to stop; sometimes it is very inconvenient and sometimes you see no reason for the sign at that particular place. But you know that the signs are not put up to make trouble for motorists but to keep them out of trouble, and that if you are wise, you will obey them. The journey of the Israelites from Egypt to the land of Canaan, as we know, is a picture of our journey to the promised land of heavenly character. The commandments were given to the Israelites as their guide. They were told that so long as they obeyed them they would prosper, and that when they disobeyed, trouble would inevitably follow. They are given to us for the same purpose. If we recognize this, and write them firmly in our minds, we shall find that whenever we are tempted to do some wrong which will lead us into trouble and may even perhaps wreck our lives, the Lord will recall to us one of these commandments, just as a stop sign appears suddenly at a dangerous crossing. We often think we know better than the Lord what we can do without harm, but we do not. He tells us that these laws are absolutely essential to our welfare and happiness, and we may believe Him. The testimony of history, of reason, and of everyday experience shows that where the ten commandments are broken there is neither peace nor happiness. The twenty-fourth verse of the sixth chapter of Deuteronomy is a good verse to learn and remember:

"And the Lord commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive, as it is this day."

All this is true of the commandments even in their literal sense.

But, like everything else in the Word, the commandments have depths of meaning within the letter. Suppose we take the third commandment as an illustration: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." What does this mean? The first and obvious meaning is that we should not indulge in profanity. Most of us are brought up not only to know that this is wrong but to have an actual distaste for it. It is perhaps no temptation to us. Is this commandment therefore of no importance in our lives? A name is the symbol of the quality of a person or thing. The Lord's name is more than just the appellations by which He is called. It signifies all His qualities and especially the Word, which is the expression of His love and wisdom. When we in any way belittle the Word, allowing ourselves to think of any part of it as the work of men, to use its stories in jokes or in careless conversation, or even to let our minds wander to worldly thoughts when we are hearing it read in church, we are breaking this commandment. And when we indulge in this deeper form of profanity, we injure ourselves and also influence others to their hurt. This is especially true of the New Church person, who knows better - who knows the holiness of the Word and its source and has the responsibility of leading others to understand and reverence it.

We might go through all the commandments. We find them explained not only in (@AC 8859-8912) where this chapter of Exodus is covered, but in @TCR 283-331. [Also in the Doctrine of Life and the interchapter articles in @AE 950-1028. (This latter material has been abstracted and printed separately as "The Spiritual Life and the Word of God" [Swedenborg Foundation] and "Religion and Life" [Swedenborg Society].) Note that in this latter work, Swedenborg curiously followed the order of the decalogue as found in the LXX version, which reverses the "kill" and "steal" commandments. -Editor]

These are sections which we should all study seriously in order to understand the meaning and relevance of the commandments in our lives. The Lord says, "If ye love me, keep my commandments."

