
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Note the fact that during the first two months of their journey the Israelites were an unorganized horde of people held together only by their recognition of Moses as their leader. They followed the pillar of cloud and fire with no real understanding of how they were to live — even physically — and no internal order or direction. They reached Sinai during the third month and remained there about eleven months. During that time, through the giving of the commandments and the great body of lesser laws and the establishment of the tabernacle and forms of worship, they were formed into an orderly nation and prepared for their further journeys and for the conquest of the Holy Land. If you have a copy of William Worcester's booklet An Adventure with Children, you will find it helpful in preparing this lesson.

---
The crossing of the Red Sea and the destruction of the Egyptians represent our victory over the first temptation which follows a good resolution, and the realization that our selfish habits are powerless if we obey the Lord and look to Him for help. As we read the story in the Word, we imagine that witnessing so great a miracle would surely have made the Israelites so convinced of the Lord's presence and help that they would have had no further difficulties. But the story goes on to tell how they traveled three days into the wilderness and found no water and then came to Marah where there was water; but the water was bitter so that they could not drink it, and again they were completely discouraged, and complained. The new life on which we set out often seems dry and bitter at first. We miss the old selfish indulgences and feel lost without the old selfish thoughts. The Lord made the waters of Marah sweet by showing Moses a particular tree — which represents the principle of loving service — which he was to cast into the water to make it sweet, and the next stopping—place was an oasis where they found ample shade and water. The Lord always gives us these needed intervals of peace and satisfaction.

After this the people hungered, and longed for the fleshpots of Egypt, and the Lord sent quails and manna and also showed Moses how to bring water out of a rock. Finally the Israelites met their first enemy, the Amalekites, and were given victory over them as Moses sat on the hilltop and Aaron and Hur kept his hands lifted toward the Lord. The Amalekites, whose method of attack was to lie in ambush and fall upon the stragglers, picture our doubts and discouragements, which attack us unexpectedly when we are physically weary. All these experiences were behind the children of Israel when in the third month they came to the wilderness of Sinai and camped at the foot of the mountain.

We are so familiar with the ten commandments that we scarcely realize their importance in our lives. From our early childhood our parents have been trying to form our characters according to the ten commandments. Even people who have been brought up with no direct knowledge of the Bible have learned through school and through the law courts that stealing and killing and falsehood will get them into trouble. Because the substance of the commandments is found in codes of law which antedate the time of Moses some have called the Bible story of Sinai a myth. But we are told that the Lord gave the commandments in such an awesome way because it is necessary that we recognize them as divine and not man-made laws. The ten commandments are not long as compared, for example, to the statutes of any state or city: yet they contain all the fundamental principles necessary to safe and happy individual and social life.

There are, however. some things about the commandments which the world at large does not recognize. One is that the first four commandments are quite as essential to happiness as the rest of them. Some people think they can do their duty to their neighbor without worshiping the Lord. But this is not true. Without worship of the Lord we naturally take credit to ourselves for our good deeds, and this self-satisfaction poisons all that we do. The Lord says, "Without me ye can do nothing."

Another thing not generally recognized is that there are deeper things within the letter of the commandments. For example, the commandment "Honor thy father and thy mother" means much more than to obey and cherish our earthly parents. Our true father is our heavenly Father and our true mother is the Church, by means of which we find heavenly life. Unless we honor the Lord and the Church we cannot be happy in heaven, where our earthly ties no longer exist.

Also, the deepest and worst form of stealing is stealing from the Lord, taking to ourselves credit for the good we do instead of recognizing that all good is the Lord's. And to steal another person's character by gossip and slander is just as much a breaking of this commandment as to steal his purse. So we might go through each of the ten and find its deeper meanings.

Each of the commandments, kept literally, opens the way to some positive good, and as we grow older and our problems become more complex and critical, we shall see more and more deeply into the meaning of these "Ten Words," as they are called - the Decalogue. They are like a complete and strong foundation on which the house of our character is to be built, or like strong walls which surround a city, giving the inhabitants protection from the attacks of enemies. We need to know and keep the commandments and never to fall into the error of thinking that they can be broken at any time with impunity.

