
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors should all learn the commandments thoroughly. This is the age at which memorizing comes most easily. Impress the children with the fact that the Lord Himself gave the commandments to us so that we might go through life in the right way and be able to live in heaven when we die. All the unhappiness in the world comes from people's not obeying the commandments as the laws of God. Point out also that in addition to their literal meaning, each one has inner meanings which the children will understand as they grow older.

---
At what mountain did the Israelites arrive in the third month?

What wonderful thing happened there?

What famous laws were given there?

The commandments are the Lord's laws and are universal. They had always been known by men, but people had forgotten that they came from God and were not man-made laws. So God Himself spoke the commandments with a living voice from the top of Mount Sinai.

We should all know the commandments by heart and say them to ourselves often, for it is only by keeping them that we can be safe and happy. They were afterwards written on two tables, or tablets, of stone; the first three {four}* (Exodus 20:1-11) we think of as those of the first tablet, the last six {five} (Exodus 20:13-17) as those of the second, and the fourth {fifth} (Exodus 20:12) as belonging to both. This is because the first three {four} teach us our duty to God, the last six {five} our duty to our neighbor, and the fourth {fifth} ties the two duties together. For father and mother mean not only our earthly parents, but our heavenly Father and our spiritual mother, the Church. Read Matthew 22:34-40.

[*The bracketed numbers reflect the most common way of numbering the commandments. Swedenborg, however, follows the Catholic-Lutheran numbering system which includes the injunction against graven images as part of No. 1. This in turn requires the illogical subdivision of the mandate against coveting into Nos. 9 and 10. The more usual numbering will be used in the following pages. -Editor]

Many people nowadays complain of the commandments because most of them are don'ts. But this is necessary. For we all naturally do many wrong things, and we cannot be good until we stop doing wrong. For example, as long as one insists on telling lies, he cannot be truthful. Isaiah says, "Cease to do evil; learn to do well." If we wish to do right, the first thing necessary is to stop doing wrong. (Isaiah 1:16-17)

We should keep the commandments literally. But, as we grow older, we shall find that there are deeper ways of keeping them, too. For example, take the commandment "Thou shalt not steal." We think first of stealing as taking someone's money or belongings. But when we say bad things about a person, we steal his reputation; when we make fun of a companion for doing right, calling him names, we are trying to steal his character; when we are proud of our own good deeds, we are stealing from the Lord, for all our power to do good comes from Him.

The commandments are our protection against wrongdoing, and they are all necessary. Many people acknowledge and try to keep those of the second table, but forget those of the first which command love and worship of the Lord. But we cannot be good without the Lord's help. When we imagine we do not need the Lord, we become self-satisfied, and that closes our minds against learning anything we do not want to learn about what is right and wrong. The first commandment comes first because it is necessary to keeping all the others.

See if you remember these important points:

How were the ten commandments first given at Sinai?

On what were they afterwards written?

Which commandments were written on the first table?

What do they teach?

Which were written on the second table?

What do these teach?

How was the fifth written?

Why?

