
=== Notes for Parents

The journey of the children of Israel through the wilderness was to last for forty years, although the Israelites had no idea of this when they started out. They were a great multitude of people — some six hundred thousand — with flocks and herds which had to feed along the way. But their delay was caused by their own complainings and rebellions and cowardice, not by the length or difficulty of the journey. So it is with us. The wilderness journey pictures the period in our lives when, after we have determined to break off the fetters of worldly and selfish living, we are trying to make our lives over, to break our bad habits and learn good ones. We, too, often complain and rebel and waste time and strength looking back instead of pressing forward.

You know the many wonderful ways in which the Lord met the needs of the people one after another as they arose. He also meets ours. When we find new truth bitter, as the Israelites found the water at Marah, He shows us the "tree" which will make it sweet - the principle of loving service. He gives us our periods of rest and content — our "oases" of Elim. When we become too unhappy, He brings us some wholesome pleasure, like the flocks of quail which came over the camp in the evening. And in every new state, if we look for it, we find our daily bit of spiritual bread provided. He brings us living water from the apparently hard rock of the letter of His Word, and when doubts and discouragements, like the Amalekites, attack us, He teaches us to lift up our hands to Him and let His strength bring us victory.

Then we begin to see the orderly purpose behind all the Lord's laws, and we are ready for a better organization of our thoughts and for more detailed instruction. The Israelites spent nearly a year camped at the foot of Mount Sinai. During that time the Lord gave them through Moses a complete code of laws to govern their civil, moral, and religious life. From an unorganized horde of people they became a nation, with the tabernacle as the center of their life.

In the inmost room of the tabernacle was the ark containing the two tables of stone on which the ten commandments had been written by the finger of God. The first commandments, relating to duties to God, constitute the first table; and the rest, relating to duties to the neighbor, constitute the second table. We recall that in the Gospels the Lord says that love to God is the first and great commandment and love to the neighbor is the second.

Our chapter tells us, however, that the commandments were first given to the Israelites by the living voice of God. This is because they are God's laws, the fundamental laws of the universe. They had been known always, but men had forgotten — as some have forgotten today — that they were not man-made. Your older children should now be learning the ten commandments. We should all know them and repeat them often to ourselves, for keeping them is the only way to happiness and peace.

