
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With the Older Teens the emphasis should be placed on the fact that the commandments are divine laws and cannot be transgressed even in their letter without an aftermath of suffering and a permanent loss of some good which might have been gained. They have always been and always will be the basic rules for a sane life. They are the laws of the heavens. And they require specific things. We should know them by heart, repeat them often, and meditate on both their literal and their spiritual meaning. They are our blueprint for the building of our house of character.

---
Church people often mention the commandments. The Lord in the Gospels mentions them several times and says, for example, "If thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments." Yet if we went through the membership of any church, how many do you think we should find today who could repeat the commandments or even who knew just where they are to be found in the Bible? How can we keep what we do not know? There is a tendency even with very well-intentioned people to feel that if one is regarded as a good person by his neighbors, he is keeping the commandments.

Even in the letter the commandments require specific things.

They are not broad generalities. They are injunctions to be obeyed in our daily lives. If we ignore the Lord, if we put anything above service to Him as our supreme object in life, if we take His name in vain in our daily conversation, if we fail to observe Sunday as a day in which to think of Him and to worship Him, if we fail in respect and obedience to our parents, we are breaking the commandments just as much as if we kill, commit adultery, steal, lie, and covet — things for which our neighbors would condemn us. Indeed the first few commandments are of prime importance, for they are the ones summed up by the Lord as "the first and great commandment" (Matthew 22:38). It is only because the committing of sin against the neighbor brings external consequences that we are prone to think the last five commandments are more important. But in reality the consequences of breaking the first five are much more serious because they go deeper.

And indeed when we consider all the commandments in their deeper meanings, the keeping of them requires self-examination and self-discipline of every one of us, for they reach our thoughts and motives and demand much more than a mere outwardly orderly life:

1. To have no other gods before the Lord requires that our ruling motive in all things great or small shall be to do right in His sight, not to be like those who love "the praise of men more than the praise of God."

2. To make no graven image means not to rely on man-made ideas or feelings in preference to God's as standards for our thoughts and affections.

3. Not to take the name of the Lord in vain requires that we inwardly love and respect divine qualities and especially the Word of God, never taking them lightly or being led away into thinking the Word is a mere human book.

4. To keep the sabbath holy requires that we welcome Sunday as an opportunity to put aside our weekday preoccupations and seek spiritual nourishment and strength.

5. To honor our father and mother demands open acknowledgment and worship of our heavenly Father and support of our spiritual mother, the Church.

6. "Thou shalt not kill" requires, as the Lord Himself taught, that we rid our hearts of all feelings of resentment, hatred, and revenge, which are the root of murder.

7. "Thou shalt not commit adultery" demands not only purity of thought, speech, and conduct but, in the deepest sense, the acceptance of the truths of the Word in their purity, unmixed with our own ideas.

8. "Thou shalt not steal" forbids also harmful gossip, belittling of our neighbor, and especially anything which shakes his faith or puts a stumbling block in his way, and inmostly self-satisfaction, taking credit to ourselves for goodness and wisdom, for this is stealing from the Lord Himself.

9. "Thou shalt not bear false witness" requires honesty with ourselves as well as with others. We must seek to recognize and support the good in our neighbor and not to misjudge him or exaggerate his evils. And we should remember Swedenborg's teaching concerning the larger neighbor, and exercise the same justice and restraint in our dealings with our community, our country, and the church.

10. "Thou shalt not covet" demands contentment with the talents and opportunities which the Lord has given us to use and with the environment which He has assigned to us as our field of service.

(Swedenborg numbers the commandments differently, dividing the commandment concerning coveting instead of that concerning worship of the Lord.$)

[*It was Augustine (354-430) who first included image-making in the first commandment. Among Protestants only Luther followed this method of division. Judaism, ancient and modern, the Greek Church and most Protestants use the more logical divisions. -Editor]

