
=== Adult

Perhaps the best discussion topic for this class grows out of the quotation from New Jerusalem and its Heavenly Doctrine following their notes. The weak and selfish idea that the Lord is so loving that He will forgive us whenever we ask Him, whatever our life has been and without any real change on our part, has done much harm in our modern world. The prodigal son had to take the long journey back before his father could meet him, even though the father saw him coming "while he was yet a long way off."

---
Again we have the scribes and Pharisees contrasted with the publicans and sinners. The publicans and sinners "drew near unto him ... for to hear him," and the Pharisees and scribes murmured. The intent of the three parables which follow is to show the nature of the Lord's love, in that it goes forth to all alike with desire to draw them to Him, examining each man to see wherein he has strayed, and seeking by all means to recall and restore what has been lost. In each parable it is made clear that if we will but recognize our departure from the Lord and try to reform, He can save us. The three parables picture this truth on the three planes of life.

In the first parable it is a sheep which is lost, representing loss of one of the innocent affections with which the Lord has endowed us. All our other affections suffer from the loss of the one — they are left in the wilderness, and the Lord Himself, the good shepherd, is pictured as following the lost sheep, finding it, laying it upon His shoulders, and bringing it back with rejoicing. Perhaps this "lost sheep" is the simple trust in the Lord which we had as little children but have lost in the course of acquiring worldly wisdom. The Lord leaves nothing undone to restore this trust. He shows us again and again in our lives that He is caring for us, by opening our way before us, smoothing out difficulties and dangers which we had feared, and delivering us from evils into which we might have fallen. And when the trust is restored, we are conscious of a sphere of relief and joy. The angels "perceive nothing more delightful and happy than to remove evils from a man, and lead him to heaven" (@AC 5992). We are told that "to carry on the shoulder" denotes to preserve with all the power of the divine love, and that the "'sheep that was lost and was found' denotes the good within the man who repents" (@AC 9836[6]).

The parable of the lost piece of silver pictures the loss of some truth which we have known, its loss through failure to live according to it, and the need of searching for it with the light of truth from the Word and sweeping our mental house, that is, examining ourselves thoroughly and rejecting the false ideas which have obscured the truth (@AE 675[10]). Perhaps it is the truth that the real life is the eternal life and that death is an orderly step which opens the gate to that life. Little children accept this teaching readily and have no fear of death, but as they grow older, they are likely to slip into the prevalent attitude toward death, to shake their heads when some friend dies and say, "It seems strange that this should have come to him; it is hard to understand these things." This is the accumulated dust of worldly ideas and points of view. We need to sweep the house and find our piece of silver. Again there is great rejoicing. The familiar saying, "We never miss the water till the well runs dry" might well be interpreted according to correspondence. It is true that we do not appreciate the goods and truths which the Lord gives us until we have felt real need of them, and sometimes it may be necessary for us to lose them altogether in order to awaken in us this sense of need. Even in our everyday life there is more rejoicing over the restoration of something we have lost than over the possession of many treasures.

The third parable deals more directly with sins of external conduct. The father, of course, is the Lord. The inheritance which the son wishes to have for himself is the goods and truths which come to us from the Lord. When one becomes tired of looking to the Lord for guidance and wishes to lead himself, he is like the prodigal son. Very soon he goes into a far country — far from the Lord - and wastes his inheritance in riotous living. When our good affections and the knowledge we have of the truth are looked upon as our own, the "substance" is gone out of them, for it is the Lord's life in them which makes them good and true. "As the branch can not bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me." (John 15:4) When we look to ourselves for light, we soon adopt worldly standards and come to live for worldly pleasures and satisfactions, and may even descend to "feeding swine" - gratifying the mere lusts of the body. Then famine comes. For man is a spiritual being and can never be satisfied while his spiritual nature is starved. In the parable the prodigal son is brought by this condition to realize his own fault and to determine to confess it and go back to right living under his father's command. So sometimes when we are willful, the Lord must permit us to suffer the penalties which belong to our evil ways, in order that we may see their true nature and be brought back to Him. When we come into a state of genuine repentance, the Lord's love comes out to meet us with forgiveness and rejoicing, restoring us to our place, clothing us again in the garments of true thoughts, and giving us a new love of doing good, represented by the fatted calf.

The elder son who remained at home represented the Pharisees, and pictures the Pharisee in us. When we live an outwardly correct life, doing the good works which community sentiment requires of us — as the elder son was "in the fields" — but are cold and critical toward those who have transgressed the external laws which we keep, and refuse to welcome them when they repent or even to believe in the possibility of their repentance or in the justice of forgiveness for them, then we are like the elder brother, for the Lord's love is not in our hearts and our good conduct is a mere hypocritical shell. See @AC 9391[6] and @AE 279[6].

The lesson in all three parables is that of the necessity of recognizing and repenting of our evils, and of the Lord's tender mercy and forgiveness which helps us all along the way and can make our sins as though they had never been. The elder brother of the parable, like the Pharisees, was not conscious of any fault in himself. As long as one is in that state, there is no possibility of his progressing into a spiritual state of life, no matter how carefully he may keep the letter of the law. The Lord's forgiving spirit is pressing upon us all the time, but it can gain no entrance until we see our need of being forgiven. And our confession must be more than a mere recognition that no man is perfect. We must see definite evils in ourselves and try to correct them. We must miss the particular "lost sheep" and the particular "silver coin," and we must, like the prodigal son, arise and go to our Father — lift our thoughts out of their worldly grooves and seek the Lord in His Word and ask to be helped to do right again. Each time we do this, we shall find the Lord's love waiting for us and experience the heavenly joy which is with the angels over one sinner that repenteth.

