
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondences in the three parables will interest this class. In addition to those given in the pupils' notes, point out that it is the man — representing the intellect — which suffers the loss when the sheep is missing, and the woman - representing the affections — who has lost the coin. Tie this in with the third excuse in the last lesson and remind them of the meaning of the widow in the story of the widow of Nain. The teacher should have appropriate illustrations to give of all three kinds of loss.

---
The general lesson taught in all three of the parables in our lesson for today is that no matter how far one may wander from the Lord, if he sincerely repents and turns to the Lord for help, the Lord will forgive, restore, and bless him. They also teach that, far from despising and turning from those who do wrong, we should seek them out with loving effort to restore and help them.

The three parables picture how we may go astray on one or another of the three planes of life: will, thought, and act. The lost sheep pictures one of our good affections, such as the innocent trust we had when we were little. Without it our whole flock of affections must wander in the wilderness without a leader. For this innocent trust is the very heart of all goodness. This is what the Lord means when He says: "Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven."

The ten pieces of silver stand for the truths which the Lord has given us to guide our lives, especially the ten commandments. If we lose one, if we drift into neglect of any one of them, the loss is felt through every part of our life. The "house" we must "sweep" is our character, overlaid with the dust of worldly ideas and practices, and the "candle" - or more correctly the "lamp" - which gives us light for our search is the Word. "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path."

The prodigal or wasteful son is the person who does not want to be directed by the Lord in his actions. He takes his "inheritance" - all his talents and opportunities — and goes into a "far country" - a state of life far from the Lord — and wastes his substance in riotous living. Such a life leads directly to "feeding swine," that is, to indulgence in gross sensual evils, which is the same as living like an animal. It is really insanity, for the thing which distinguishes man from animals is his possession of a spiritual nature capable of knowing and loving the Lord. So the parable says, "And when he came to himself, he said ... I will arise and go to my father." No matter how low we have fallen, when we "come to ourselves" and, lifting up our thoughts to the Lord, go back to Him with sincere and humble repentance, we shall find Him coming out to meet us more than halfway. Only the elder brother, who is a picture of the self-righteous Pharisees, fails to rejoice in the restoration of the repentant sinner.

Verse 10 troubles some people because they think it implies that it is better to sin and repent than not to sin at all, but this, of course, is not true. The Lord's attitude toward the people who do right is shown in the father's words to his elder son: "Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine." Only we must guard against self-righteousness and hardness of heart.

