
=== Junior

The Juniors can easily understand the general lesson of the three parables in this chapter. The teacher may suggest ways in which they in their school and play environment may be tempted to behave like the Pharisees, and also ways in which they themselves may be like the prodigal son. The emphasis should be on the necessity of recognizing our spiritual condition and retracing our steps before the Lord's forgiveness can come to us.

---
Who were the Pharisees?

What was their great fault?

How did they regard other people?

In our last lesson what parable did the Lord tell them?

Who were first invited to the supper?

Why did they not come?

Who did eat the supper?

There are three parables in our lesson for today.

What is similar about all three?

In the first parable what was lost?

What was lost in the second?

What was lost in the third?

The Lord spoke these three parables to the scribes and Pharisees.

Read the first two verses of the chapter. The publicans were those who collected taxes from the Jews - their own people — for the Roman rulers; so they were despised by their fellow men. The apostle Matthew had been a publican (Matthew 9:9). The scribes, or the more learned ones who were called lawyers, were those who studied, copied, and taught the Old Testament Scriptures and all the additional regulations which their leaders had made up. They despised the Samaritans and all people of other nations. But the publicans and often the "sinners" were their own people. The scribes and Pharisees looked down upon them also, but only because they were not just like themselves. We know that today there are people of many different nations in our own country — people with different colors of skin, different religions, different customs — and that people are brought up with many different ideas of what is right and wrong, and that people also differ in the degree to which they live up to what they believe to be right. Because we are all naturally selfish, it is easy for us to take it for granted that we are right and that everyone who is different from us must have something wrong with him. It is hard for us to change this feeling even after we have learned better, but we must try hard to make this change, and even when thought and reason and experience have proved to us that in any particular matter we really are right and the other person wrong, we must not think of ourselves as better than he. We are like the scribes and Pharisees when we draw back from someone who has done wrong, and will not forgive him or help him to do better.

This is not the way in which the Lord treats us. The Lord sees to it that each of us has from babyhood an inheritance from Him which makes it possible for us, if we choose, to see and overcome little by little the selfish thoughts and feelings which are natural to us. If we lose one of these good feelings that He has given us to keep — as the one sheep wandered away from the flock — He tries to help us find it and bring it back. If we forget some truth we have been taught, He helps us to search our minds until it comes to light again; this is symbolized by the piece of silver that was lost. And we may even do worse than this. We may do so many wrong things that we get very far away from the good life we ought to live. Then we are like the prodigal son in the third parable.

Prodigal means "wasteful." The inheritance which the son wasted pictures all our talents and opportunities which our heavenly Father gives us freely. When we want to do as we please with our lives, we are like the prodigal son leaving his father and going to a far country and wasting his inheritance. We may even get to as low a state as he did. We know what we mean when we say certain people live like pigs. But if we recognize how wrong we have been, and turn back ready to serve the Lord, He will forgive us and restore us to our true place as His children.

What complaint did the elder brother make?

What did his father tell him?

The elder brother lived an outwardly good life, but he was hard and unforgiving like the scribes and Pharisees. Read what the Lord said about them in Matthew 23:23.

