
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the difference between evil and sin and the three planes in which spiritual loss may be suffered. Deal more fully with the third parable, pointing out that the cause of the prodigal son's disaster was his desire to go his own way. The teacher may know of particular books, movies or television shows which the young people have seen which may be pointed to as "husks," lacking in spiritual nourishment. Speak of the elder son and tie him in with the first two verses of the chapter.

---
The three parables in our lesson for today form a wonderful series.

The scribes and Pharisees, in their pride and self-righteousness, had criticized the Lord for associating with publicans and sinners. The Lord answered them with these three parables, teaching them the same lesson which He spoke plainly in Matthew 9:12-13: "They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. ... I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."

There are three ways in which we may commit sin: in heart, in mind, and in act. And sin is always the loss of something valuable which we have possessed. Swedenborg makes a distinction between evil and sin. [See @AC 8925.] Evil is committing wrong unwittingly and unintentionally, as we all do again and again. Sin is doing what we know to be wrong or what we ought to know to be wrong, if we had thought about the truths which had been given us. So in these parables the lost sheep symbolizes some innocent affection we have possessed but have ceased to feel, the piece of silver stands for some truth we have known but have allowed to slip into the dusty recesses of our minds, and the prodigal or wasteful son is a picture of our efforts to do as we please in our outward life.

In this last parable the father represents the Lord, and the inheritance from Him is all our individual abilities and opportunities. The Lord does not withhold this inheritance from us when we choose to go our own way. He gives it to us to use freely as we like. He leaves us in full control of our abilities, our possessions, our strength, and our time, even when He sees that our free choice will be to go into a "far country" - far from our true spiritual home — and waste our substance. The Lord forces no one to remain in His house. This is because He wants us to be happy, and no one can be forced into happiness. We have to choose it freely. If we see early in life that there is no real happiness except in unselfish love and service — the qualities which are the Lord's — and choose the good life from the beginning, we can be spared much hard experience and suffering. But many prefer to try the other way, which looks so promising. Some even reach the state in which the prodigal son found himself before he learned his lesson.

Swine represent selfish, sensual affections or desires. The husks which feed them picture the superficial ideas which men accept instead of true spiritual nourishment when they think only of the worldly side of living. Many of the books and plays of today are such husks. They seem to give us something to think about and sometimes they look as if they might contain truth, but actually they are empty shells; there is no nourishing goodness in them.

A very little reason will show us that lasting happiness is not found in such things. To ignore the existence of God and of spiritual values is insanity. So the Lord says of the prodigal son, "And when he came to himself, he said ..." That is, when he had suffered enough so that he could not help seeing that he had made the wrong choice, his mind was opened again toward the Lord, and he said, "I will arise and go to my father." It is never easy for us to admit that we have done wrong, and it is still harder to recognize that we must correct our ways before we can regain our position in our Father's house. Like the prodigal son, we have to rise and retrace our steps with the intention of serving instead of being served. One of the lessons of this parable is that the doctrine of "faith alone" — which was one of the outgrowths of the Protestant Reformation — is unsound. This doctrine teaches that the Lord by His death on the cross paid all the penalty for the sins of mankind and that if a person — no matter how evil his life has been — will even at his last moment acknowledge that Christ died for him and throw himself on the divine mercy, his sins will be washed away in a moment. Fortunately all through the centuries many Protestants, although they nominally accepted this doctrine, did not let it actually affect their lives; that is, they lived as if they believed that it was necessary to live good lives in order to be saved. But others have used it as a loophole hoping to escape from the consequences of their lifelong sins. We are told in the parable that the father saw his son coming "while he was yet a long way off," and went out to meet him. The Lord does give us every possible help and encouragement as soon as He sees that our intention to reform is sincere.

We easily see in the story of the elder son the lesson the Lord was trying to teach the scribes and Pharisees. It is not enough to keep the letter of the law. We must try to be like our heavenly Father in our hearts and minds, knowing that we all do wrong and constantly are in need of His forgiveness, and so ready to rejoice with the angels in the return of any prodigal to our common spiritual home.

