
=== Notes for Parents

The Bible is one book, although it was written through many men over a period of more than fifteen hundred years. Its author is the Lord Himself and in it He tells us the story of His dealings with men from the time when He created them, showing us how in His love He followed them down as they departed from their first state of childlike trust and obedience, never leaving them without the knowledge they needed, and even — when they were about to destroy themselves — coming into the world Himself to fight their battles and show them the way to happiness.

We have seen that the final book of the Bible, given through the apostle John after the Lord's death and resurrection, is a prophecy, the revelation of what the further course of the world would be and also of what the result will inevitably be of the kind of life each of us chooses to live while we are in this world.

The greater part of the book of Revelation is concerned with the disastrous results of choosing to close our ears to the truth the Lord speaks to us in His Word. But the book does not end on this unhappy note. The last two chapters show us the wonderful happiness which is in store for all who will overcome selfishness and follow the Lord's guidance.

In our chapter for today the final state of the good is pictured in the beautiful vision of the "holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven." We all know that we have an inner life as well as an outer life, that we may be very different in our secret thoughts and feelings from what we appear to other people to be. What we do not always realize is that our inner self is the really important one, not only because that is what will appear when we pass into the other world but also because it is the quality of our inner self which makes us happy or unhappy in this world. We all naturally like to blame our troubles on other people, but we know that people who have everything the world can give are often unhappy, and that many who have poverty and hardship to bear are nevertheless happy.

The "city" our souls live in is built of the principles which we have chosen to rule our thoughts and feelings. If we have chosen to learn and obey the Lord's truth, which He has given us in His Word, we live in the beautiful heavenly city described in our lesson. Its temple is the Lord and its light comes from Him, and every one of the truths of His Word is like a precious stone, beautiful with its own special brightness and color. The golden reed with which the city is measured is the Lord's own measuring stick of pure unselfish love, and our city is found to be "foursquare," sincere and just all through, rising toward the Lord higher and higher as our knowledge of Him and our love for serving Him — its breadth and length - increase. This is why the measure of the city is called "the measure of a man, that is, of the angel." It is a picture of the ideal life toward which each of us should be striving every day.

Let us keep this beautiful city always in mind. Its gates are open.

