
=== Adult

Again and again, as in this story of Nathan's parable, the lesson is brought home to us that as long as we are in this world we are liable to temptation and liable to yield to it. There are plenty of discussion topics here, but try to make this general lesson the outstanding one. It may be pointed up by reading to the class Ezekiel 18:20-24.

---
David, the second king of Israel, represents the rule of divine truth spiritually understood. This understanding of the truth is first recognized by us as a result of our realization of the inadequacy of our natural understanding of it — represented by Saul — but it is a long time before it comes into full control in our life. We all know the stories of David's early life — his being called from tending his father's sheep at Bethlehem to be anointed by Samuel, his being called to Saul's court because of his skill in playing the lyre, his victory over Goliath, and his friendship with Saul's son Jonathan, who helped him to escape when Saul's jealousy would have killed him. We can see these incidents as picturing the first relations between the spiritual and the natural understanding of divine truth in our minds. We have a similar picture in the story of the relations of Joseph with Potiphar and Potiphar's wife (Genesis 39), and the period when David was in exile may be compared with the time when Joseph was in prison, the David stories of course representing the cycle at a later period in our life than the Joseph stories.

Even after Saul's death, David did not immediately come to the throne, for Abner, the captain of Saul's host, crowned Saul's son Ishbosheth. David was at the same time crowned in Hebron by the people of the southern part of the land, and reigned there for seven years. At the end of this time Ishbosheth was assassinated by two of his own captains and the northern tribes also accepted David. This temporary division of the land foreshadowed the final division which took place after Solomon's death. The southern part of the land represents the heart or will and the northern part the mind or understanding. Hebron had been Abraham's home. David's ruling there first pictures the fact that the heart — and especially the innocent states stored up in us as remains from our earliest infancy — accepts the rule of spiritual truth before the mind fully yields to its control. It was not until David had been anointed king by the northern tribes that he captured Jerusalem, which up to that time had been firmly held by the Jebusites. He made it his capital and brought the ark there, and from that center went on to full conquest of the enemies of Israel, extending the borders of the Holy Land farther than they had ever extended before.

As we read the long story of David, we cannot help being struck by the sudden change which takes place in his fortunes beginning with 2 Samuel 11, when he first sees Bathsheba, covets and takes her, and arranges to have her husband Uriah killed in battle. From that time on, although David continues as king and actually retains all the territory he has conquered, he is plagued by internal troubles, beginning with the conspiracy of his son Absalom and ending with that of his son Adonijah. In our chapter for today, Nathan the prophet foretells this: "Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house."

The turning point in David's life and career came at the moment when he, too, at last became confident in his own might and careless of the commandments. David knew the commandments and knew that his rise to power had been won for him by the Lord and not by his own strength or wisdom. Yet when he wanted Bathsheba, he did not hesitate to break the commandments to get her and even used his authority as king to establish his possession. The crimes of adultery and murder are in themselves deadly to spiritual life. Pure marriage love is the love from which all heavenly loves flow, and its opposite closes heaven; and we have seen in an earlier lesson that innocence is essential to heavenly states. Adultery and murder are characteristic of the hells (Matthew 5:21-28). David's yielding to the temptation to commit these two crimes shows us how even the spiritual understanding of the Lord's truth may be misused and led to justify our evil desires, if we allow ourselves to think that we have reached a state in which the commandments may be transgressed with impunity. It is possible for us at any time, no matter how far we have progressed in regeneration, to fall into hell if we cease to test our lives by the commandments. Indeed, the further we have progressed the deeper the hell into which we may fall, if we use the Lord's gifts for selfish purposes and turn the power which he has put in our hands to the injury of others (Ezekiel 18:24). One of the trends of modern thought is in the direction of the relegation of the commandments to the realm of outworn statutes. This is particularly evident in connection with the problem of marriage. Children should be taught from the very beginning by example as well as by precept that the marriage relation is beautiful and sacred and that anything which lessens our regard for it or makes us less fit to receive and enjoy its blessings should be avoided as a deadly plague. To know the beautiful teachings concerning marriage revealed through Swedenborg and then to yield to the temptation to treat the marriage vows lightly or to enter into other relations is like the sin of David.

If Nathan had come to David and charged him outright with his sin, David's immediate impulse would have been to justify himself in one way or another and perhaps to get rid of Nathan. But Nathan put the matter before David's own judgment in an impersonal way which left David's judgment free to see the simple right and wrong involved. There was nothing in the parable to touch David's self-love and so blind his judgment. And his judgment was immediate and clear. Then, when Nathan said, "Thou art the man," David realized that he had freely judged himself, and that whatever punishment came to him was just. This is exactly the way in which the Lord points out to us our evils by means of the Word. The Word presents to us in parable form every possible spiritual situation into which we may come, leaving us free to judge the right and wrong involved and to see the inevitable results of evil. Then, if we are listening to the prophet's voice, it says to us in each of our weaknesses and sins, "Thou art the man." If we store our memories with the letter of the Word and try to see its application to our lives, we are prepared to face our problems objectively and to judge justly.

The child of David's unlawful union with Bathsheba died. No living spiritual principle can come from the attempt to evade our obligation to obey the letter of the commandments, even in the interest of something which appeals to us as beautiful and which, if properly acquired, is innocent and good. Good does not come out of evil. But David repented. His fasting before the child died pictures our natural hope that the consequences of our sin may be avoided. But once they have fallen and been accepted, we are shown that, like David, we must rise and begin anew, and that if we do, we may still use the bitter experience rightly and develop new strength.

