
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Children should have a more detailed account of David's life and accomplishment. Draw as much as possible of this from their own memories. When the story for today is reached, the teacher will find in the Older Children notes several lessons within the grasp of this age group which may be brought out.

---
The story of David's early life is one we have all read. Let us see how much you remember of it.

Where was David born?

What was he doing when he was anointed?

What talent did he have which brought him to Saul's attention?

What enemy did he overcome single—handed?

What weapon did he use?

Who was his special friend in Saul's court?

Why did he finally have to flee from Saul?

David's first capital was Hebron, where he reigned for seven years over the people of the southern part of the land. Hebron had been Abraham's home and at the time of the division of the land it was given to Caleb. After Ishbosheth's death, the people of the northern part of the land came under David's rule also. He conquered Jerusalem — which the Jews had never before been able to take from the Jebusites who possessed it — and made it his capital. You remember how he brought the ark there and put it in a new tabernacle because the Lord had told him that he was not the one who should build the temple. Because David obeyed the Lord, the Lord could give him victory over all the enemies of Israel, and he extended the borders of the land farther than they had ever extended before.

People sometimes think that the men in the Bible story whom God prospered must have been altogether good. They think of them as heroes to be imitated. Those who think this have a hard time explaining our story for today, for David had done a very wrong thing. He had seen a beautiful woman named Bathsheba and wanted to marry her, and when he found she was already married, he had her husband placed in the front line of a battle so that he would be killed. Then he married Bathsheba. He knew he was a great king and perhaps he really imagined he could do no wrong. But no one ever reaches that point.

Nathan the prophet was sent to David by the Lord. Nathan did not immediately charge David with his sin. When someone finds fault with us, our first impulse and effort is to defend ourselves, isn't it? Instead Nathan told David a simple little story apparently about other people. David could see clearly the wrong which the rich man in Nathan's story had done, and he judged him very severely. Then Nathan said, "Thou art the man." And David could see that he really had done the very same thing, and he could not help acknowledging his sin.

What was David's punishment?

How did David take the sickness of his child?

How did he surprise his household when the child died?

What reason did he give?

Who was the second son of David and Bathsheba?

There are many lessons in this story. One important one is that we should look at our own conduct squarely and be willing to judge it honestly. We must be willing to let the Lord through his Word say to us, "Thou art the man." Another lesson is that there is no escaping the consequences of wrongdoing. We may think we have "got away with it," but every wrong we do actually destroys something good in us which might have grown up, like David's child, to give us greater happiness. The Lord has to permit such losses, or we should never try to improve.

And there is another lesson. What is done cannot be undone, but if we acknowledge our sin, as David did, and accept the justice of the consequences, we can use the experience to help us to become stronger and more useful. This is why David and Bathsheba were allowed to become the parents of Solomon, the greatest of the three kings.

The people in the Bible story were men and women just like us, with many faults as well as virtues. The Lord wants us to learn from them both what to do and what not to do. The whole of the Word is a parable which the Lord has told us through His prophets, just as surely as he sent Nathan with his parable to David. We are meant to read the Word and think about it and judge ourselves by it, so that we can see and acknowledge our faults and try to do better from day to day.

