
=== Senior

Several lessons should be drawn from this chapter for the Seniors: the nature of the Word and why it is written in parable form, the necessity of obedience to the commandments however sure we may feel of ourselves, the general meaning of marriage and of its perversions, the fact that sin always brings punishment, and the good use we may make of such experiences, provided we repent. It is the repentance which brings the good.

---
We are all well acquainted with the general story of David, the second great king of Israel. He represents a deeper and more spiritual understanding of divine truth than Saul. Such an understanding does not develop overnight. David was anointed by Samuel immediately after Saul's act of disobedience, and at that time the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul and was with David instead. But Saul continued to be king in the eyes of the people, and after Saul's death his son Ishbosheth was crowned and ruled for seven years over the people of the northern part of the land. David had also been crowned and was ruling in Hebron. This pictures a time in our lives when we have realized that our first natural understanding of the Lord's Word and what it requires of us is not adequate - that we need to look into divine truth more deeply and in a humbler spirit; but still our immediate impulse is to judge by appearances. We get rid of any habit only gradually.

When David finally came into full control, he subdued all the enemies of Israel, captured Jerusalem and brought the ark there, and extended the borders of Israel farther than they had ever been extended before. The spiritual understanding of divine truth, once firmly established in our minds, removes many temptations which have formerly troubled us and gives us a firmness of purpose and a breadth of view of which we have not dreamed before.

Then comes our story of David's sin. We are tempted to forget that even our established character is not a guarantee of salvation, that the commandments can never be broken with impunity no matter how important we are or how far our regeneration has progressed. David saw and desired Bathsheba, the wife of Uriah the Hittite, and not only committed adultery with her but afterward tried to conceal his sin by using his royal power to send Uriah to a battle station where he would certainly be killed.

It would be hard to find a story in the Word which illustrates the general principles of the New Church doctrine of the @DSSs more clearly than this of David's sin and its results. David here is obviously a sinner; yet he is the Lord's anointed, to whom it was promised that his line should never fail. We see then that it is not the man that is laudable but the thing he is chosen to represent. We see that men, just as they were, could be chosen by the Lord as his instruments in the giving of the Word. And in Nathan's parable and its effect we have a clear example in the letter of the manner in which the Word speaks to us and the reason why it is given in parables.

David, as we have seen, represents in our individual lives the rule of the principle of divine truth; but our understanding of this truth, even when it has risen above mere appearances and become spiritual, is still imperfect, just as David was, and prone to be obscured by our own selfishness and prejudices. It is easily led astray by a desire for anything which appears beautiful but is not rightfully yours, and we all tend to justify ourselves in taking the means necessary to get what we feel we should have. The marriage relation represents inmostly the union of divine love and divine wisdom in the Lord, and all perversions of this relation represent attempts to join evil to truth, or good to falsity. When we try to justify ourselves in doing wrong to satisfy some selfish desire, we commit spiritual adultery.

The Word, pictured by Nathan the prophet, by presenting our problems to us in an objective form, clears our vision and enables us to distinguish impartially between right and wrong. It is easy to judge the conduct of the people in the Bible story, and then all we need is to turn the same judgment upon ourselves — to hear the voice of Nathan saying, "Thou art the man."

David repented and was forgiven, but he did not escape the consequences of his sin. The death of Bathsheba's first son pictures the fact that nothing spiritually living can be produced as a direct result of wrongdoing. But her second son, Solomon, conceived after David's repentance, became the greatest of Israel's kings. This pictures the fact that genuine repentance and humility may lead to greatness.

This is a distinction we need to keep constantly in mind. We often hear it argued that good comes out of evil, that certain necessary virtues are developed by war, that a young man is better for having "sowed his wild oats." This is not true. Evil always results in a loss, no matter what course may be followed afterward. But our freedom provides that after this loss, if we choose to accept it as a lesson, repent, and change our ways, we may still go on to great things. We cannot go back and undo the wrongs we have committed — although we can sometimes reduce their consequences to others — but we can start afresh with the bitter experience as a warning. We cannot be what we might have been, but we can be something else which is good.

