THE 

PARABLES 

Of 

JESUS CHRIST 
EXPLAINED. 

 JOHN'S COLLEGE, MANCHESTER, AND FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, 
.
LATE RECTOR OF ST
​

CAMBRIDGE. 

BY THE REV. J. CLOWES, M.A. 

Whoso reads let him understand - Matt. 24:15. 

A NEW EDITION. 

1851. 

LONDON : 
PRINTED AT D. BATTEN'S OFFICE, CLAPHAM COMMON. 

 www.biblemeanings.info  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
​
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
MY DEAREST B---- 

You already know and value this Book in its original form of 
question and answer. 

It was written by a revered friend of your mother's and mine; who, 
as he was in the practice of catechising the children of his parish, 
probably found such a form most useful for that purpose. For 
reading, however, and especially for reading aloud, I have often 
wished it were free from this interruption; and I now venture to 
reprint it with this single alteration, and offer it to you with the best 
wishes of your affectionate 

AUNT.                  

March, 1851. 

2 

 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION. 

THE 
word parable is derived from a Greek verb, signifying to compare, and therefore it 
means a comparison made between things in their own nature different, but which yet in 
some points have a resemblance to each other. 

The parables of Jesus Christ differ from other parables or comparisons in this respect, that 
they are not mere comparisons, but real agreements or correspondences between the 
things compared; thus they are the agreements or correspondence between things natural 
and things spiritual. 

These agreements or correspondences are founded in the eternal laws of creation, by 
which it is appointed that all natural things and objects shall be the representative images 
and figures of those spiritual and eternal realities in which they originate, and that thus the 
universal world of creation, with all its parts, may be a representative theatre of that 
eternal world from which it is derived, and with which it is in perpetual connexion. When 
Jesus Christ, therefore, spoke in parables, He expressed eternal spiritual truths relating to 
His kingdom, under images of natural things relating to the kingdom of this world, and in 
this figurative language impressed those truths more beautifully and affectingly on the 
minds of His hearers than He could have done in any other way. 

This mode of speaking answered a double purpose; first, in communicating to His humble 
and sincere disciples the lessons of Eternal Truth in the most significative and impressive 
language; and, secondly, by concealing Truth from others who were not in a disposition to 
receive and profit by it, and who, consequently, might have suffered injury by its 
reception. 

It may seem a strange assertion, that man can suffer injury from admitting the truth into 
his understanding, but it is nevertheless true, for he has no greater enemy than the Eternal 
Truth, if he be not in a disposition to form his life accordingly, by rejecting those evils 
which the truth makes manifest, and by cherishing those graces and virtues which the 
truth recommends, and, at the same time, communicates; Jesus Christ therefore says, 
"
This is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men love darkness rather 
than light, because their deeds are evil." 
(John iii. 19.) In receiving, therefore, into our 
​
understandings the knowledge of the Eternal Truth, we receive either life or death; life, if 
we suffer it to influence our wills, and conduct us to the possession of the Supreme Good, 
which is the love of God and our neighbour; and death, if we suffer it to remain fruitless, 
by burying it under the mire and clay of our natural evils, unforsaken and unrepented of. 

It is said, (Matt. xiii. 34, Mark iv. 34.) that Jesus Christ spake nothing without a parable, 
from which we are plainly taught, how important it is to understand the parabolic 
language of Scripture, if we would be "wise unto salvation;" and the object of the 
following explanation is, that the devout reader of the Holy Word may have an 
enlightened and spiritual discernment of the divine things contained in the parables of our 
Saviour God, in order that his mind may be more opened to receive and to love the things 
of heaven and eternal life. 

3 

 
​
​
 
 
THE PARABLES 

The Wise and the Foolish Builder.

A Piece of New Cloth on an Old Garment, &c.

Children Sitting in the Markets.

The Sower.

The Weeds in the Field.

The Grain of Mustard Seed.

The Leaven.

The Treasure Hid in a Field.

The Merchant-man Seeking Goodly Pearls.

The Net Cast Into the Sea.

The Instructed Scribe.

The Summary of the Internal Sense of the Foregoing Parables,

Not That Which Goes Into the Mouth Defiles.

The King That Would Take Account of His Servants.

The Householder Who Hired Labourers Into His Vineyard.

A Certain Man Who Had Two Sons.

The Householder Who Planted a Vineyard.

The Marriage of the King's Son.

The Fig Tree.

The Ten Virgins.

The Man Travelling Into a Far Country.

The Man Who Cast Seed Into the Ground, Etc.

The Blind Leading the Blind.

A Certain Creditor Which Had Two Debtors.

The Good Samaritan.

The Friend Visited at Midnight.

The Rich Man Whose Ground Brought Forth Plentifully.

Let Your Loins Be Girded About, and Your Lights Burning.

6 

11 

13 

17 

21 

25 

26 

27 

28 

30 

32 

33 

34 

37 

40 

46 

50 

55 

64 

66 

70 

75 

80 

83 

87 

91 

95 

99 

The Fig Tree in the Vineyard.

105 

4 

 
The Man Invited to a Wedding.

107 

The Man Intending to Build a Tower, and of the King Going to War Against Another King.
111 

The Lost Sheep.

The Lost Piece of Silver.

The Prodigal Son.

The Unjust Steward

The Rich Man and Lazarus.

The Servant Ploughing or Feeding Cattle.

The Unjust Judge.

The Pharisee and the Tax Collector.

The Good Shepherd.

The Vine and the Branches.

Daily Prayer

117 

120 

124 

131 

139 

144 

148 

151 

155 

159 

165 

5 

 
 
 
 
 
THE PARABLES EXPLAINED. 

THE PARABLE 

​OF  

THE WISE AND THE FOOLISH BUILDER. 

Matt. 7:24-28. 

Therefore, whoever hears these sayings of mine, and does them, I will liken him to a wise 
man, who built his house upon a rock; and the rain descended, and the floods came, and 
the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock. 
And every one that hears these sayings of mine, and does them not, shall be like a foolish 
man, who built his house upon the sand; and the rain descended, and the floods came, 
and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it. 

By the sayings of Jesus Christ are to be understood the words which he spoke, and which 
contained the whole of his Divine Love and Wisdom in close conjunction. Thus the 
sayings of Jesus Christ are to be regarded as the complex of all divine good and divine 
truth, intending to form in man the divine image and likeness, by opening in him the 
kingdom of Heaven, by purifying him from all his natural evils, by restoring him to the 
form and order of Heaven, and by finally leading him to an eternal conjunction of love 
and of life with the God of Heaven. 

A distinction is made in the above parable between hearing and doing. Let us examine the 
ground and meaning of this. 

By hearing the sayings of Jesus Christ is to be understood their reception in the memory 
and understanding, where they appear and are stored up under the form of truths; but by 
doing them, is to be understood their reception in the will, or love, and their consequent 
operation on the thoughts, words, and works of the devout receiver of them. Thus hearing 
the sayings of Jesus Christ denotes their admission into the external man or mind only, by 
virtue of which the external thoughts, words, and works are in a measure directed and 
controlled; whilst doing the sayings of Jesus Christ denotes their admission into the 
internal man or mind, by virtue of which admission, interior evils are seen and combatted, 
interior goods are manifested and exalted, and thus the whole man, both internal and 
external, is brought into submission to, and conformity with the divine love and wisdom. 

All the comparisons applied by Jesus Christ are to be regarded not as mere comparisons 
only, but as agreements or correspondences between the things compared; which 
agreements or correspondences were established at creation, and are the results of the 
relationship subsisting between things spiritual and things natural, in consequence of the 
derivation of the latter from the former, and thus of their constant connection with each 
other. The comparisons, therefore, applied by Jesus Christ, differ from other comparisons 
principally in this respect, that they are comparisons, or agreements and correspondences, 
between things natural and things spiritual; whereas other comparisons are comparisons 
only between things natural, which bear some kind of resemblance to each other. When 
Jesus Christ therefore says, I will liken him to a wise man which built his house upon a 
rock, he means to declare the existence, not only of a similitude between the two cases, 
but of a real agreement or correspondence, and this of such a nature, that, when 
considered in reality and truth, the things compared are the same. Thus, in the present 

6 

 
 
instance, the things compared are a person who hears the sayings of Jesus Christ and does 
them, and a person who builds his house upon a rock. When, therefore, Jesus Christ says, 
that these persons are like each other, he intended to mark, by the most significant terms, 
the proper character of the person who hears and does these sayings, and to say, not only 
that he resembles a person who builds his house on a rock, but also that he really and 
virtually is such a person, which will be further evident from the consideration of what is 
to be understood by building a house upon a rock. 

By the house here spoken of, is manifestly to be understood a spiritual house, which is no 
other than the interior and exterior mind of man, who is called a house in consequence of 
being the habitation, not only of the man himself, that is to say, of his supreme love, with 
all its derivative affections and thoughts, but also of the Lord himself, with his divine love 
and wisdom, together with all the angelic host, who constitute his eternal kingdom. This 
house is said to be built upon a rock, whenever man opens his mind to the reception of the 
divine truth of the Most High, and especially to that highest and most sublime truth, the 
manifestation of God in the flesh, or his revelation of himself in the Divine Humanity of 
Jesus Christ. For in the Sacred Scriptures all truth is called a rock, by reason of its 
consistency and durability, and the term is applied pre-eminently to Jesus Christ as being 
the Supreme Truth, agreeably to his own declaration, where he says, 
I am the way, the 
truth, and the life
 (John 14:6). The first step, therefore, towards building this spiritual 
​
house is to believe in Jesus Christ as the Supreme God, and thus, as the source and 
fountain of all divine truth, and the building is afterwards advanced and perfected, in 
proportion as man forms his mind and his life in agreement with the precepts of Jesus 
Christ, and especially of that most edifying and purifying precept, to shun all evil as sin 
against that Great and Holy God. 

But it is said that 
upon that house. 

the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat 

The rain, the floods, and the winds, here spoken of, are to be understood spiritually, or 
according to a spiritual idea, because they are here mentioned as beating upon a spiritual 
house; and by rain, according to a spiritual idea, is meant the assault of false principles 
and persuasions in their opposition to the truths and precepts of the revealed wisdom of 
the Most High; by floods, a destructive accumulation of those principles and persuasions; 
and by winds, the infernal influences with which they are in continual connection, and 
from which they derive all their activity, force, and overwhelming operation. By rain, 
indeed, and by wind, when applied in a good sense, as the terms frequently are applied in 
the Sacred Scripture, is to be understood the descent of the heavenly doctrine of truth and 
wisdom, operative under the influence of the power and spirit of the Most High; but in the 
present instance the two terms are manifestly applied in an opposite, or bad sense, and 
accordingly denote, as was said above, the assault and operation of false and destructive 
principles and persuasions infused by the powers of darkness. 

The term beating, has relation to the assault made by false principles and persuasions 
against the principles and persuasions of heavenly truth in the human mind, and therefore 
it relates to a state of trial or temptation, which is necessary for all to undergo, before the 
principles and persuasions of heavenly love and wisdom, or, what is the same thing, of 
heavenly goodness and truth, can be fully fixed and confirmed in the mind and life of 
man. 

It is afterwards said of the house, when thus beaten by the rain, the floods, and the winds, 

7 

 
​
​
that 

it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. 

By falling, applied to a spiritual house, is to be understood the separation or disjunction of 
the house, and of all things contained in it, from the divine love and wisdom of Jesus 
Christ: for when this is the case, the house then of necessity falls, since it is then placed 
only under the rule and government of selfish and worldly love, which love, in respect to 
heavenly love, is grovelling and debased, and destitute besides of all order, strength, and 
consistency necessary for the support of a spiritual building. When, therefore, the house, 
as in the present case, is said not to fall, the expression was intended to denote, that what 
is signified by the house was still kept in conjunction with the divine love and wisdom of 
Jesus Christ, and consequently, that the trial, or temptation, signified by the beating of the 
rain, the floods and the winds, had produced no other effect than to strengthen the 
foundations of the house. For such is the nature of all opposition from the powers of 
darkness, when exercised on the well-disposed mind, that, instead of destroying, it 
strengthens the heavenly principles which it assaults, by bringing those principles more 
into exercise, by leading man into deeper humiliation, and by thus elevating him to a 
closer conjunction with the powers of heaven and their God than could otherwise have 
been effected. The Almighty, therefore, permits such opposition on account of the end 
which is accomplished by it, and which is no other than the more radical purification and 
regeneration of his children, agreeably to his own declaration, where he says, 
You shall be 
(John 16:20). 
sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy 
​

By the rock, as was shown above, is to be understood the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, 
or the Incarnate God, together with all the truth, or wisdom, which proceeds from him; 
and the nature of man's connection with this Lord and Saviour is such, that if he be wise 
to open his mind to the reception of him, and of the heavenly principles of life and love 
which proceed from him, by renouncing all the evils which are in opposition to those 
principles, he then connects himself with the Omnipotence of that Great God and Saviour, 
and thus cannot perish, since 
(John 
none is able to pluck him out of that Saviour's hand 
​
10:28). Whenever, then, man is wise to build his house upon this rock, he may console 
himself with the blessed conviction, that it can never fall, but is that house not built with 
hands, of which it said, that 

(2 Cor. 5:1). 
it is eternal in the heavens 
​

We have now considered what is meant by the sayings of Jesus Christ, and what by 
hearing and doing them. The meaning, therefore, of hearing and not doing them is plain: 
but we have yet to seek the reason why the man, who hears them, and does them not, is 
like a foolish man who built his house upon the sand. 

He is like a foolish man, because he is a foolish man, agreeably to what is said above 
concerning the Lord's comparisons; and therefore the Lord would here teach that this is 
the essence of all folly, to hear his sayings and not to do them; in other words, to acquire 
speculative knowledge of holy things in the memory and understanding, without suffering 
that knowledge to influence the life and conversation. And this folly Jesus Christ further 
marks by the significant expression of building the house upon the sand. For sand, we 
know, is a strong substance, without coherence and consistency, and therefore is an exact 
representative figure of all that truth in the human mind which is not reduced to practice, 
by being allowed to govern and control the love and the life, in which case, being 
deprived of the heavenly conjoining spirit of love to the Lord, and neighbourly love, it has 
nothing to give it consistence and coherence, consequently, nothing to give it strength and 
stability. As, therefore, a material house must soon fall, if it has no other foundation for its 
security than material sand, in like manner, a spiritual house must soon fall, if it has no 

8 

 
​
​
​
​
other security than spiritual sand; in other words, if it be built on mere speculative truths, 
or knowledges, which, being separated from heavenly life and love, are of consequence 
disjoined from each other, and therefore incapable of supplying a firm and durable 
foundation. It is accordingly said, that when 
the winds blew, and beat upon that house, it fell, and great was the fall of it,
 to denote, 
​
that in time of spiritual trial or temptation, truth alone cannot stand; in other words, that 
the man of the church cannot be supported under spiritual conflicts, only so far as 
knowledge is formed into life, speculation brought into practice, and the whole man thus, 
both internal and external, restored to an eternal connection and conjunction of life with 
the divine fountain of all good and truth, whose high and holy name is Jesus Christ.  

the rain descended, and the floods came, and 

The fall is called a great fall, to distinguish it from lesser falls, and to teach the edifying 
and awful lesson, that the greatest fall to which the spiritual house of man is exposed, 
results not from ignorance, but from the knowledge of heavenly truth received in his 
understanding, when it is not suffered to operate and produce its proper fruits in the will 
and life, by purifying man from all his natural evils, and restoring him both internally and 
externally to the love and the practice of heavenly good. Jesus Christ therefore says, in 
another place, 
 (Matt. 
If the light that is in you be darkness, how great is that darkness!
​
6:23). to instruct us, that great darkness does not result from mere ignorance, or the want 
of spiritual light, but that it results from spiritual life itself, when it is either perverted, 
suffocated, or rejected, - in consequence of not applying it to the purposes for which it 
was given, namely, purification, reformation, and regeneration of the heart and life. The 
same truth is again inculcated in these words of Jesus Christ, 
Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten 
with many blows. But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of blows, shall be 
(Luke 12:47, 48) 
beaten with few blows 
​

That servant, which knew his 

From this parable then, we learn, in the first place, the distinguishing marks and 
characters of wisdom and folly, and what it is which properly constitutes the essence of 
each. For we are taught that the proper mark and character of wisdom, is both to hear and 
to do the sayings of Jesus Christ, whereas the proper mark and character of folly is, to 
hear only, and not to do. A man therefore cannot properly be called wise, merely because 
he has much knowledge, or because he abounds in the science even of things the most 
heavenly and sublime, but he becomes wise in proportion as he suffers such knowledge 
and science to elevate his love and affections, to raise him above his corruptions, and to 
conjoin him with the Father of his Being, the High and Holy God. Neither can he be 
properly called foolish on account of any defect in knowledge or science, but he becomes 
foolish by the possession of knowledge or science unpractised, in consequence of not 
suffering it to convert him from the love of evil to the love of good, and thus to influence 
his life and conversation. We are instructed yet further by the above parable, that in 
building our spiritual house, we ought both to hear and to do the words of Jesus Christ, 
and thus to lay the foundations on a rock; in other words, we ought to believe in the 
incarnate God, and to form our life in obedience to his heavenly precepts of love and 
charity, in which case our house can never fall, because it will ever be kept in connection 
with the Eternal, and under the support of his Omnipotence; whereas, if we only hear, and 
do not, we shall then build our house on the sand, and when trial or temptation assaults us, 
it will fall, and its fall will be the greater, because we knew our duty and did not practise 
it. Let us endeavour, therefore, from now on, to acquire the blessed character of true 
wisdom, and for this purpose, both to learn what our Heavenly Father requires of us, and 
also to practise it, that so, when the hour of trial and temptation comes, we may stand 

9 

 
​
​
​
steadfast and unmoved, and may enter into all the comfort of the blessed declaration, 
 Amen. 
fell not, for it was founded on a rock.
​

It 

10 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

A PIECE OF NEW CLOTH ON AN OLD GARMENT, &c. 

Matt. 9:16-18. 

No man puts a piece of new cloth upon an old garment; for that which is put in to fill it up 
takes from the garment, and the rent is made worse. Neither do men put new wine into old 
bottles, else the bottles break, and the wine runs out, and the bottles perish; but they put 
new wine into new bottles, and both are preserved. 

Jesus Christ here speaks by correspondence, and thus represents spiritual things under 
natural images, agreeably to His usual mode of speaking. 

The word new, is, in the original Greek, unwrought; and since cloth, according to its 
spiritual correspondence, signifies truth, inasmuch as it is applied to cover, defend, and 
keep warm the body, as truth is applied to cover, defend, and keep warm the spirit of man; 
therefore, by the un-worked cloth, here spoken of, is signified the truth of the Gospel, or 
the spiritual truth of the Christian church, as opposed to the old garment, or old truth, of 
the Jewish or representative church. Jesus Christ, therefore, here teaches, and warns his 
hearers of, the difficulty and the danger of imbibing the truths of the new Christian 
church, whilst the truths of the old or Jewish church, which were external and 
representative truths, were suffered to prevail, and to influence the persuasions and the 
conduct of their adherents. He says, therefore, that that which is put in to fill it up takes 
from the garment, because the truths of the new Christian church, which are internal 
spiritual truths, if mixed with those of the old representative church, rob them of their 
importance and influence, on which account, He adds, the rent is made worse, since there 
is no agreement between the precepts and commandments delivered by the Lord himself, 
and the statutes and judgements of the Jewish church, which were principally concerning 
sacrifices and representative worship. 

By the new wine is again signified the truth of the new Christian church, in like manner as 
by the unwrought cloth above, but with this difference, that by new wine is signified a 
more internal order of truth, than by unwrought cloth, because wine is for inward 
nourishment, whereas cloth is for outward covering; still, however, the sense is the same, 
as denoting that the internal truths of the new Christian church, do not accord with the 
external truths of the Jewish church, which external truths are here called old bottles, of 
which it is said, that if new wine be put into them, the bottles burst, and the wine runs out, 
and the bottles perish. 

By the bottles bursting, if new wine be put into them, is denoted, that the truths of the 
Jewish church, which principally relate to sacrifices and representative worship, have no 
coherence with the truths of the Christian church; and by the wine running out, is further 
to be understood, that interior spiritual truth is dissipated, when representative truth is 
alone seen and acknowledged; and, lastly, by the bottles perishing, is denoted, that the 
external laws relating to sacrifices and ordinances are done away as soon as ever the 
things which they represent are fulfilled. 

The new wine, as was shown above, is the internal spiritual truth of the Christian church, 
which was opened by the manifestation of God in the flesh, on which occasion all the 
representatives of the Jewish church were fulfilled and realised; and by putting this new 

11 

 
wine into new bottles is denoted, that this interior spiritual truth was to be taught, and 
admitted into human minds, by doctrines which were in agreement with it, and derived 
from it, thus by doctrines which would tend at once to promote its reception and 
perpetuity, on which account it is added, that both are preserved, namely both the truth 
and its doctrine, for doctrine is what contains and conveys truths, and is distinguished 
from truth as the bottle which contains wine is distinguished from the wine itself. When, 
therefore, doctrine is in agreement with truth, then both are preserved, because truth gives 
life and consistency to doctrine, whilst doctrine, in its turn, gives determination and 
support to truth. 

The old garment and old bottles will apply, as apt figures, to the persuasions and 
sentiments of the old or natural man, in his unconverted state, before he begins to taste the 
new wine, and to put on the new garments of evangelical truth and righteousness. 
According to this application, the parable also teaches a lesson of important instruction 
and caution, by pointing out the extreme danger of mixing the principles of truth with 
those of error, or of imbibing heavenly knowledge, whilst the life and love of earthly 
science, and of vain imaginations, remains in its full force, unmortified and unsubdued. In 
this case, too, the divine declaration, that new wine must be put into new bottles, is full of 
wisdom and weighty obligation, enforcing on man the eternal law, that the persuasions 
dictated by the love of evil ought first to be combatted and removed, before the new wine 
of the everlasting Gospel is received, and that thus, new opinions, new persuasions, new 
principles, should be formed, capable of admitting and preserving the saving truth 
communicated from above. 

The general instruction we gain from this parable may be thus summed up: we are taught 
by it, in the first place, that the truths of the Jewish church, which related principally to 
sacrifices and external ordinances, do not accord with the truths of the Christian church, 
which inculcate principally the law of love and charity, and thus the observance of 
internal worship, and that, consequently, the former are not to be mixed with the latter. 
We learn, in the second place, that the truths of the Christian church, being all of them 
from Heaven, are internal, spiritual, pure, and holy truths, and therefore require that the 
persuasions, sentiments, and ruling maxims of mankind should be in some sort of 
agreement with them, otherwise they will be dissipated, defiled, and destroyed. Let us 
resolve, therefore, from now on, to form our whole minds and lives according to the 
wisdom contained in the above parable, and whilst we venerate the law of the Jewish 
rituals, as being a law of divine revelation, and the best accommodated to the temper of 
the Jewish people, for whose use it was given; we need not conceive ourselves bound to 
observe it according to its letter, now that we are favoured with the interior spiritual law 
of the Christian dispensation. Let us resolve further, now that we have begun to put on the 
new garment, and to drink the new wine of evangelical truth, to lay aside the old garment, 
and discard the old bottles of our former mere natural ideas, sentiments, and persuasions, 
so that no rent may be made in the new garment, and the new wine may not run out. Thus 
may we hope that the Eternal Wisdom will obtain a safe and undefiled reception in our 
hearts, and, connecting itself with persuasions which are in agreement with itself, will 
conduct us to all that security and happiness announced by the Great Redeemer, when He 
says. 

 Amen. 
They put new wine into new bottles, and both are preserved.
​

12 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

CHILDREN SITTING IN THE MARKETS. 

Matt. 11:16-17. 

But with what can I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the markets, and 
calling to their fellows, and saying, We have piped to you, and you have not danced; we 
have mourned to you, and you have not lamented. For John came neither eating nor 
drinking, and they say, He has a devil. The Son of man came eating and drinking, and 
they say, Behold a man gluttonous and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. 
But wisdom is justified of her children. 

According to the letter, the expression, this generation, means the people who lived at that 
time in Judea; but according to its spiritual sense, it means the state of the church among 
that people, in regard to their reception of the eternal truth, for such is the spiritual idea of 
generation, whenever the term occurs in the Word of God, inasmuch as that Holy Book 
treats only of spiritual generations, which are those of goodness and truth, and not of 
natural ones, which relate only to this world and the flesh. 

This generation is said to be like children sitting in the markets, because, by children, or, 
as it is expressed in the original, infant boys, are not here to be understood children, or 
infant boys, but the things signified and represented by them, which things are nothing 
else but the truths of innocence, which were at that time revealed from Heaven to the 
Jewish people, in order to make them a church, or the people of God. 

These children, or infant boys, are represented as sitting in the markets, because by the 
markets are figured natural minds, or the common states of the life of natural men, which 
are therefore called markets, because all the goods and truths contained in the Word of 
God are there presented for purchase, and every one, who is so disposed, may there 
become a purchaser, and thus acquire the eternal possession of those heavenly blessings. 
It is on this account that mention is again made of a market-place in the parable of the 
householder who hired labourers into his vineyard, where it is written, that he 
standing idle in the market-place, 
for by standing idle in the market-place, is signified, 
​
that they neglected to cultivate the natural mind, by preparing it for the insemination and 
growth of the Eternal Truth. In the present, parable, however, it is not said that the 
children were standing idle in the markets, but that they were sitting there; because, by the 
term sitting, whenever it occurs in the Sacred Scriptures, is always expressed a state of the 
will, or love, as the term standing is uniformly applied to express a state of the 
understanding or thought. 

saw others 

It is further written of these children, or infant boys, that they were 
and saying, We have piped to you, and you have not danced; we have mourned to you, 
and you have not lamented. 

calling to their fellows 

The term here rendered fellows, is expressed in the original by a word which properly 
signifies companions; and companions, according to the spiritual idea, are all such as are 
associated with each other by knowledge and acquaintanceship, but not so much by love 
and friendship. When, therefore, the children are represented as calling to their fellows (or 
companions), it is to denote that they addressed themselves to the intellectual principle, in 
order to secure its attention to the truth of innocence, of which they were the 

13 

 
​
​
representative figures. It is therefore written, that they called and said; because, calling is 
an expression which relates to the will-principle, or love, as saying is an expression which 
relates more to the understanding, or truth, and therefore the two expressions are 
combined, with a view to point at that heavenly marriage of love and wisdom, or 
goodness and truth, which constitutes the very life and soul of the Revealed Word, and is 
accordingly marked, even in the letter in numberless instances. 

The term piping, is expressive of the affection of good with which truth is taught, and 
which it is intended to excite. For such is the spiritual signification of all instruments of 
music, whenever they are mentioned in the Word of God, that they are all applied to 
denote affection, but with this difference, that the wind instruments are applied to denote 
the affection of good, and the stringed instruments to denote the affection of truth. Thus, 
when it is said. 
Praise Him with the sound of the trumpet; praise Him with the psaltery 
and harp; praise Him with the timbrel and pipe; praise Him with stringed instruments 
and organs; praise Him upon the loud cymbals; praise Him upon the high-sounding 
(Ps. 150:3, 4, 5) - it is to denote that the Lord is to be worshipped from every 
cymbals-
​
affection, both of good and of truth. The piping, therefore, above spoken of, has relation 
to the heavenly affection which influenced the truths, signified by the children; and when 
it is added, you have not danced, it is to denote further, that a reciprocal affection had not 
been excited in those to whom the truths were addressed. For dancing, according to its 
literal signification, is a motion of the body, corresponding with the musical sounds by 
which it is excited, and thus, according to its spiritual signification, it denotes an affection 
of the mind, corresponding with the affection by which truth is addressed to it, agreeably 
to which sense of the word it is written, 
149:3). to teach the instructive lesson, that man ought to glorify His Maker by receiving 
the truths of His Holy Word with a corresponding affection. To the same purpose it is 
written in another place, 
30:11). denoting that heavenly truth was received with the heavenly affection which it is 
calculated to inspire. When, therefore, it is said, as in the present case, 
 nothing else can be meant, according to the spiritual idea, but that the truths of 
danced,
​
Heaven had not excited a correspondent affection. 

, (Psalm 
You have turned for me my mourning into dancing
​

 (Ps. 
Let them praise his name in the dance,
​

You have not 

These words, 
are contrasted with 
We have mourned to you, and you have not lamented, 
​
the foregoing; and, therefore, as by piping was signified the heavenly affection with 
which truth was communicated from above, and as by not dancing was denoted that it had 
not been received with correspondent affection, so by mourning is signified truth 
communicated without affection, and by not lamenting is further denoted that the truth so 
communicated had not produced reciprocal and correspondent mourning. 

For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, he has a 

Jesus Christ explains the nature and quality of this kind of truth in his illustration of this 
parable, where he says. 
devil.
 For John, as a teacher of truth, represented the Holy Word, but then he represented 
​
it as to a lower or more external order of truth than what was afterward taught by the 
Incarnate God; on which account he bears this witness concerning himself, 
I indeed 
baptise you with water to repentance; but He that comes after me is mightier than I, 
whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptise you with the Holy Ghost, and with 
fire 
(Matt. 3:11). For it deserves well to be noted, that the written Word of God contains 
​
truth of several orders and degrees, adapted to different minds, and to different states of 
the same mind, answering to the several instruments in husbandry, by which also those 
orders and degrees are expressed in the Sacred Records, such as the plough, the harrow, 

14 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
the sickle, the threshing instrument, the fan; all of them useful in their several places, 
because all of them serviceable for the production of heavenly love and charity, and its 
incorporation in human minds. John the Baptist was a representative figure of one of these 
orders of truth, namely, the lowest, or most external, adapted to the state of natural minds, 
to convince them of sin, and lead them to repentance, but not fitted to communicate any 
heavenly good with interior truth; on which account it is said of John that 
he came neither 
eating nor drinking,
 to denote that by this order of truth, no interior good of heavenly love 
​
and charity, with its attendant truth, could be appropriated. Jesus Christ, on the other 
hand, opened a new order of interior truth, which, being more closely connected with 
heavenly love and charity, gained more interior admission into human minds, and 
communicated to them a measure of the heavenly Spirit in which it originated; on which 
account it is said of Him, that 
 to denote that both the good 
He came eating and drinking,
​
and its truth might be incorporated into the life of man. 

It is written, that of John they say. 
gluttonous man and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. 

 and of Jesus Christ they say. 
He has a devil,
​

Behold a 

These words are another proof how difficult it is to adapt heavenly truth to the general 
reception of mankind, and how prone men are to frame excuses against admitting it, by 
vilifying both it and its teachers. Thus, in the present instance, the apparent severity of the 
truths taught by John the Baptist, is imputed to a diabolical agency, whilst the more 
consolatory and cheering doctrines delivered by the Great Saviour, are reprobated as 
allowing too many indulgences, and giving too much liberty to offenders against its 
sanctities. Nevertheless, the Divine remark which closes this parable, that 
Wisdom is 
justified of her children,
 must for ever remain true; because the children of wisdom are all 
​
those who are born of wisdom, not according to a figure of speech only, but in the greatest 
truth and reality, inasmuch as they are born of God, or of what the Apostle calls 
incorruptible seed, 
(1 Peter 1:23). 
by the word of God which lives and abides for ever 
​
These children, therefore, are taught by their Divine Parent to see that truth is of several 
orders and degrees, which may, in general, be distinguished into two, namely, truth of 
judgement, and truth of comfort, or, to express it otherwise, truth opposed to, and 
combating, evil, and truth cherishing and communicating good; the former being 
apparently harsh and severe, thus apparently separated from good, whilst the latter is soft 
and consolatory, and thus apparently nearer to good. Accordingly, as in the building of a 
house, there are variety of workmen, and an equal variety of tools or implements of 
workmanship employed; so in the building of that most grand and magnificent of all 
houses, the House of God, or His Church here on earth, a like variety of spiritual artificers 
are employed, and likewise of spiritual tools and implements of building, agreeably to 
what is written in the Prophet, 
smoothes with the hammer him that beat the anvil, saying, It is ready for the soldering. He 
(Isaiah 41:7). The children of wisdom, 
fastened it with nails that it should not be moved 
​
therefore, justify their Divine Parent in this application of a variety of tools to effect her 
own blessed purposes, and especially in her adapting the two distinct dispensations of 
truth above referred to, namely, the piping and the mourning; the one figurative of the 
consolatory doctrine delivered by the Great Redeemer; and the other, of the apparently 
more severe and austere doctrine taught by His forerunner. 

So the carpenter encourages the goldsmith, and him that 

We are taught by this parable, that the Almighty applies a variety of instruments to effect 
His saving purposes, and that His Holy Word is accordingly stored with a variety of 
heavenly truths, suited to different persons, and to the same person at different times. We 

15 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
learn, further, that this variety may be distinguished, in general, into two orders of truth; 
one of which is attended with the love and joy in which it originates, and which it is 
calculated to inspire; whilst the other appears harsh, austere, and, so far from promoting 
joy, is productive rather of sorrow and severe suffering. We are instructed yet further, 
that, in a corrupt state of the Church, both these orders of truth are unattended to and 
rendered ineffectual, but that by the children of wisdom they are seen to be alike 
profitable, because proceeding from the same divine mercy, and productive of the same 
divine effects. Let us resolve, therefore, to attend carefully to these two distinct orders of 
truth, and to keep our ears ever open to their heavenly sound, whether it be that of piping 
or of mourning, that so, in the one case, we may be found dancing, and in the other 
lamenting. Thus will each order of truth become a friend and benefactor, whilst by the 
piping we receive consolation and support, and by the mourning are led to a more 
vigorous repentance and sorrow for our sins: and thus, finally, may we hope to rank 
amongst those pure and heavenly beings, of whom it is written, 
 Amen. 
children.
​

Wisdom is justified of her 

16 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE  

OF 

THE SOWER. 

Matt. 13:3-10. 

And he spate many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow; 
and when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way-side, and the birds came and devoured 
them up: some fell upon, stony places, where they had not much earth; and forthwith they 
sprung up, because they had no depth of earth; and when the sun was up, they were 
scorched; and, because they had no root, they withered away: and some fell among 
thorns; and the thorns sprung up and choked them: but others fell into good ground, and 
brought forth fruit, some an hundred-fold, some sixty-fold, some thirty-fold. Who has ears 
to hear, let him hear. 

The Sower is the Son of Man, or Jesus Christ, in His Divine Humanity. He is called the 
Sower, because the seed sown is the Eternal Truth, or the Word of God, and all Truth, 
properly so called, is from Jesus Christ, who on that account calls Himself the Truth. 

By sowing, when spoken of Jesus Christ, is to be understood the insemination and 
implantation of His Divine Truth, or Word, in the understandings and lives of men; this is 
effected by man's hearing, or reading, the Word of God, by his meditating on what he 
hears or reads, but, above all, by the application of what he hears, or reads, to the purpose 
of reforming his life, by separating from himself all evil ends and purposes, and by 
loving, thinking, and doing those good things which the Word of God teaches to be good. 

Mankind, then, differ in the way of receiving and admitting the Eternal Truth, and this 
difference is described in the parable to be four-fold, which four-fold reception is 
distinguished in the parable, first by 
secondly, by 
some seed falling by the way-side; 
​
some falling 
 thirdly, by 
falling upon stony places, where they have not much earth;
​
 and, lastly, by 
among thorns;
​

some falling into good ground. 

some 

The first distinction, described by 
who receive the Word of God, or the Eternal Truth, without affection. 

 includes all those 
some seed falling by the way-side,
​

Every one receives the Word of God without affection who hears it, and reads it, and yet 
is not interested in what he hears and reads, having his affections immersed merely in the 
things of time and of sense, without any elevation to the great things of Eternity. 

The second distinction, described by 
the seeds which fell upon stony places, where they 
have not much earth,
 includes all those who hear, or read, the Word of God, and imbibe 
​
its truth, yet not from a genuine affection for that truth, but from some external affection 
which regards only the gain and glory of this world: thus they love the truth, not for its 
own sake, but for the sake of their own temporal interests, which they think to advance 
and secure by means of the knowledge of truth. 

, includes all those 
by the seeds which fell among thorns
The third distinction, described 
​
who hear, or read, the Word of God, without any desire to remove the cravings of evil, 
and who thus are desirous to become intelligent in heavenly knowledge, but not for the 
purpose of purifying and reforming their own hearts and lives in the sight of God. 

The last distinction, described by 
 includes all those 
the seeds which fell into good ground,
​
who receive the Word of God, and its Eternal Truths, with a genuine and devout affection, 

17 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
at the same time applying them to the purposes for which they are given, namely, the 
purification, reformation, and regeneration of their hearts and lives in the sight of God. 

Let us now consider the effects of these different receptions of the Word of God in the 
minds of men. 

The first effect is described in these words. 

The birds came and devoured them up. 

By the birds, in this passage, are to be understood all false persuasions of doctrine and of 
life, which always occupy the minds of those who are destitute of affection for the Eternal 
Truth; and by devouring up the seeds of truth is to be understood, that where the Word of 
God is received without affection it cannot produce its proper fruits, because it is liable to 
be perverted and destroyed by false persuasions, which occupy the natural mind of every 
man before he admits with affection the light of the Eternal Word. 

The next effect of a wrong reception of the Word of God, is described in these words, 
Forthwith they sprung up, because they had no depth of earth; and when the sun was up, 
they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. 

This is to denote, that where the Eternal Truth is received from an affection not genuine, 
that is to say, from an affection grounded in worldly gain or glory, in that mind an 
appearance is presented of the growth of truth, but then it is a growth in the memory and 
understanding only, and not in the will, or love; therefore, it is said, 
because they have no 
depth of earth,
 for the earth, in this case, relates to the will, or love, and its depth has 
​
relation to the inmost principle of each. 

The sun, as applied in the Holy Scriptures, is used both in a good and bad sense, 
according to the subject treated of; and in a good sense, it relates to the Lord Himself, and 
to the Divine Love and Wisdom which proceed from Him; but in a bad sense, it is applied 
to denote the destructive principle of self-love, when it is exalted in the human mind 
above the love of God and Heaven. By the seeds being scorched, then, is to be 
understood, that where the truth is not received with a genuine affection, or for its own 
sake, in that mind it is withered and destroyed by the influence of self-love, which will 
not allow it to take its proper root, and bear its proper fruits; therefore, it is added, 
because they had no root, they withered away,
 to teach the important lesson, that where 
​
self-love is predominant it is impossible that the Eternal Truth should gain a place in the 
natural mind of man, so as to produce all its blessed and saving effects. 

The third effect of a wrong reception of the Word of God, is described in these words. 
thorns sprung up and choked them. 

The 

By the thorns are to be understood the cravings of evil, which Jesus Christ, in his 
explanation of the parable, calls the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, by 
which are meant, all those anxieties, concerns, and affections of the merely external man, 
who prevail over the better desires of the internal man; and by choking the seed of truth, 
is to be understood, all that suffocation of the pure knowledge of God, and of His Holy 
Word, which must of necessity take place in that mind, where the appetites of the body, 
and the cravings of animal life, are suffered to exalt themselves above the higher interests 
to man's spiritual and eternal life; therefore it is added, by Jesus Christ, that such a mind 
becomes unfruitful, because the fruitfulness of heavenly truth can only be found in its 
effects upon the natural man, by purifying his ends of life, and forming him to every good 
thought, word, and work; in case, therefore, that the operation of heavenly truth is resisted 
by the natural mind, it is impossible there can be any fruitfulness of truth in the natural 

18 

 
​
​
​
man. 

The fourth effect resulting from the reception of the Eternal Truth is described in these 
words, 

brought forth fruit, some an hundred-fold, some sixty-fold, some thirty-fold. 

It
​

(John 13:17). It is, therefore, 
If you know these things, happy are you if you do them 
​

By fruit is to be understood, all the good of love and charity, that is to say, of love 
towards God, and charity towards our neighbour; and by bringing forth this fruit is to be 
understood, that this good of love and charity manifests itself in the natural man in all 
good thoughts, words, and works, of a holy and useful life, agreeably to those words of 
Let your light so shine before men that they may see your 
Jesus Christ, where He says, 
good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven:
 (Matt. 5:16). and in another 
​
place, 
said in the parable, that other seed fell into good ground, to denote that the reception of 
truth, in this case, was an interior reception, or, a reception in the inner man; that is to say, 
in the will, or love, as well as in the understanding and memory. Therefore, Jesus Christ, 
in explaining this reception of the Eternal Truth, says, He that receives seed into good 
ground is he that hears the Word and understands it, to instruct us, that a right and 
profitable reception of the Eternal Truth is a reception both in the will, signified by 
hearing, and in the intellect, signified by understanding; and to instruct us yet further, that 
all fruitfulness of the Holy Word is the result of this two-fold reception, or what may be 
properly called the heavenly marriage of good and truth, and not from the single reception 
of either of those principles separate from the other. 

The distinctions expressed in the parable by hundred-fold, sixty-fold, and thirty-fold, are 
intended to express the different degrees of fruitfulness of the Eternal Truth in human 
minds, which will ever depend upon the degree in which good and truth are united, or in 
which the will and understanding are conjointly affected. As, therefore, in some cases, 
this conjunction may be less perfect than in others, in like manner it is to be supposed, 
that the fruitfulness will vary, and this agreeably to the distinctions here mentioned of an 
hundred-fold, sixty-fold, and thirty-fold. 

He that has ears to hear, let him hear; 

Jesus Christ concludes this parable by saying, 
teaching us by these words, that He intended his instruction only for those who were in a 
disposition to receive it, and not for those who were in no disposition. For by those who 
have ears to hear He meant to describe all sincere and upright minds, which are desirous, 
both' to receive and profit by the lessons of the Eternal Wisdom, therefore He says of 
these, let them hear, in other words, let them understand and receive, 
given, to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven,
 inasmuch as they are in a right 
​
state of mind to profit, by those mysteries: whereas, to others it is not given, since others 
are not in a state to profit by them, and, therefore, if such mysteries were made known to 
them, they would but profane and defile them, and thus increase their condemnation, 
agreeably to those words of Jesus Christ, 
This is the condemnation, that light is come into 
the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil 
(John 
​
3:19). 

because to them it is 

The general instruction then to be derived from this parable is, that men ought to be very 
careful in hearing, or reading, the Word of God, to note the affection from which they 
hear and read, and to see that this affection be pure and genuine, resulting from the love of 
truth, for its own sake, and not for any earthly ends of temporal gain and glory. We learn, 
yet further, from this parable, that the Eternal Truth can never produce its full fruitfulness 
in the mind and life of man until it operates conjointly on his will and understanding, that 
is to say, on his love and thought; but that when it is attended with this double operation, 

19 

 
​
 
​
​
​
​
​
​
it forms in man the true heavenly marriage, by virtue whereof he has eternal conjunction 
with Jesus Christ and His kingdom, and through that conjunction is formed to every good 
thought, word, and work. 

20 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE WEEDS IN THE FIELD. 

Matt. 13:24-31. 

Another Parable put he forth to them, saying. The Kingdom of Heaven is like a man which 
sowed good seed in his field; but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed weeds 
among the wheat, and went his way. But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth 
fruit, then appeared the weeds also. So the servants of the householder came and said to 
him. Sir, did you not sow good seed in your field! From whence then has it weeds? He 
said to them. An enemy has done this. The servants said to him. Will you then that we go 
and gather them up? But he said. Nay; lest, while you gather up the weeds, you root up 
also the wheat with them. Let both grow together, until the harvest; and in the time of 
harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather you together, first the weeds, and bind them in: 
bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn. 

The Kingdom of Heaven is the government of the divine love and wisdom of Jesus Christ, 
and therefore, wherever this divine love and wisdom is allowed to have rule, whether it be 
in heaven or on earth, there is 

the Kingdom of Heaven. 

It is likened to a man sowing good seed in his field, because it begins from a seed, which, 
like other seeds, increases and multiplies after its kind, and brings forth fruit, which also 
contains new seeds, and thus is capable of indefinite increase. 

The seed is the Word of God, which is the Divine Truth of the Divine Love; and the Man 
that sows it is Jesus Christ, or God in his Divine Humanity, because all Divine Truth, 
which is of the Divine Love, proceeds from that Incarnate God, and is implanted by Him 
in the hearts of true believers. The seed is, therefore, called good seed, to denote that the 
Divine Truth, represented by the seed, is always in connection with the Divine Good of 
the Lord's mercy and love. 

By the field is meant the Church here on earth, or the congregation of all good people 
who believe in Jesus Christ, and receive the seed of His Holy Word in sincere and devout 
hearts. This field is, therefore, called His field, because the Church is His, inasmuch as it 
is formed from those eternal principles of heavenly love and wisdom which proceed from 
Him, and which properly constitute Him. 

By sleeping, according to a spiritual idea, is to be understood, the leading a natural life, 
separate from spiritual life, which life, in the Sacred Scriptures, is always called sleep, as 
spiritual life is always called a state of wakefulness. 

By the enemy is meant the Devil, or the Spirits of Darkness, who are always present with 
man, watching and labouring to destroy the good seed of the kingdom. 

The weeds denote all evil principles and false persuasions arising from selfish, worldly, 
and corporeal loves, which choke all the plants of heavenly growth, springing from the 
seed of the divine love and wisdom. 

 is to be understood, his concealing himself, and appearing to 
the enemy going his way,
​

By 
be at a distance; for so it seems to the natural man, nor can he be persuaded to believe, 
until he becomes spiritual, that his spiritual foes, the Powers of Darkness, are always near 

21 

 
​
​
at hand, and ready to do him the greatest mischief. 

It is said, that 

when the blade sprung up and bare fruit, then appeared also the weeds. 

By the blade is meant the first appearance of truth in man's understanding, and by its 
springing up, is meant its growth in the understanding; for the seed of the Eternal Truth is 
first sown in man's memory, where it remains as a mere seed, until man begins to feel a 
concern about it, on account of his eternal salvation, in which case he is led to meditate on 
the great truths of God, which were deposited in his memory, and in consequence of such 
concern and meditation, those truths are exalted to an interior place in the mind, where it 
appears as a blade. 

This blade bearing fruit denotes a still further reception and exaltation of the Eternal 
Truth, which takes place when truth begins to affect the will, or love; for spiritual fruit is 
love and charity, love towards God, and charity towards our neighbour; and this fruit 
never appears until man, from a deeper concern about his salvation, is led to form his life 
according to the truths which he has admitted into his understanding, and thus to obtain a 
new will, capable of loving God above all things, and his neighbour as himself. 

 appear, that is, when the blade sprang up and bare 
then
​

The reason why the weeds should 
fruit, and not before, is, because the weeds, as was said, denote all evil principles and 
false persuasions of selfish, worldly, and corporeal loves, and these weeds do not show 
themselves until there is some growth of the heavenly principles of love and wisdom in 
the human mind, for error can never be seen but from truth, neither can evil be seen but 
from good, and therefore, until some degree of good and of truth is formed in the mind, 
errors and evils do not appear. 

By the servants of the Householder are signified those who are principled in true 
knowledge of truth, because all such knowledge is called a servant, in the Sacred 
Scriptures, as administering to the higher principles of the good of love and charity, this 
being the great use and design of all knowledge; and by their coming and saying to the 
Householder, Lord did you not sow good seed, is signified their perplexity and concern at 
finding evil mixed with good, and error with truth, and their anxious inquiry concerning 
the cause. For nothing is more perplexing to the human mind than the origin of evil; and 
therefore instruction from heaven is solicited on this occasion, and in consequence of such 
solicitation, is imparted. For God never excites any inquiry in the regenerate mind, but 
with a view to gratify it, and he excites it for this purpose, that it maybe gratified. 

Mention is now first made of a Householder, who was before called a Man. 

Both the Man and the Householder relate to Jesus Christ, - who is called a Man from the 
principle of Divine Truth, during its insemination in the human mind. But when this truth 
begins to spring up, and bear the heavenly fruit of love and charity, He is then called a 
Householder, because a house, whenever it is mentioned in the sacred Scriptures, has 
relation to love and charity, and since all love and charity are from Jesus Christ, and under 
his continual government and protection; therefore He is called a Householder. 

The enemy is that principle in the human mind which opposes God, by Pot submitting its 
judgement and determination to the Divine Will and Wisdom; and on this account, the 
Devil is called the great enemy, because he is always opposing the will of the Most High. 
And here we may discover the true origin of all evil, and also of the evil one himself, 
called in the Sacred Scripture, the Devil, and Satan. This origin is not from God, because 
from God can come nothing but good, inasmuch as He is essential goodness; but it is from 
the determination of human minds, in the abuse of that freedom of will in which they are 

22 

 
​
​
created, and without which they could not be men. From the moment, therefore, that the 
human will inclines to call anything a good, separate from God, from that moment it 
creates evil, which, in itself, is nothing else but a good so separated. 

Will you then that we go and gather them together? 

We read that the servants said to him, 
But he said, Nay; lest, while you gather together the weeds, you root up the wheat 
together with them. Let both grow together to the harvest, and in the time of the harvest I 
will say to the reapers, Gather together the weeds, and bind them in bundles to burn them, 
 The reason of this delay on the part of the 
but gather the wheat into my barn.
​
Householder, in separating the weeds from the wheat, or the evil from the good. He 
explains himself, when he says, 
the wheat together with them. 

Lest, whilst you gather together the weeds, you root up 

The Householder teaches by these words, that it is dangerous to attempt the entire 
extirpation of things evil and false in the human mind, until the principles of goodness 
and truth from Heaven are fully formed. The Divine Law, therefore, on this occasion, is, 
that man should labour for the implantation and formation of those heavenly principles in 
himself, bearing patiently with the opposition arising from contrary principles; in which 
case those contrary principles will assist him, by their opposition, and the spiritual 
combats to which he will thus be exposed, in effecting a more perfect reception of 
heavenly principles, and their deeper entrenchment in his mind and life. When, therefore, 
the opposing principles have thus fulfilled their appointed purpose, they are separated, but 
not before. 

The harvest denotes the full formation of goodness and truth in the regenerate mind, and 
in this case, the separation of those principles of life which are in opposition, and cause 
combat and disturbance. 

By the reapers is to be understood the angelic heaven, inasmuch as the Lord, by and 
through the angelic heaven, effects such separation. 

The weeds mean all evil and false principles of life; and to bind them in bundles, denotes 
that such principles are in arrangement one under another, and are thus connected one 
with another. The Divine wisdom, in effecting the separation of those principles, first 
discovers to us that such arrangement and connection exists, and that the general principle 
of what is evil and false in man consists of innumerable evil and false principles, which 
thus make a one, which one can never be separated until it is thus viewed minutely and 
distinctly as to the varieties of which it is composed. 

The wheat, it has been already seen, signifies all heavenly principles of goodness and 
truth; and the being gathered into the barn, is signified being brought into heaven, because 
heaven is the grand receptacle of all those principles. The barn, therefore, is here called 
 that is to say, the Lord's barn, because heaven is from the Lord, and in continual 
my barn,
​
connection with Him; as are also all the principles of goodness and truth, which constitute 
heaven. 

We learn from this parable, that man is placed here below between two kingdoms, the 
kingdom of light and the kingdom of darkness, and that Jesus Christ, from his kingdom of 
light, is always endeavouring to inseminate in the human heart, the eternal principles of 
His own most pure love and wisdom, whilst the Spirits of Darkness, from their kingdom, 
are endeavouring to inseminate their own wicked principles of evil and of error. We learn, 
further, that the principles of evil and of error can never be discovered until the contrary 
principles of heavenly love and wisdom, or, what is the same thing, of heavenly goodness 

23 

 
​
​
and truth, begin to grow and produce their proper fruit. We are instructed, yet further, not 
only concerning the origin, but also concerning the separation and removal of evil and of 
error from the regenerate mind, being taught to expect that these effects cannot be 
produced suddenly, but in the divine order are of gradual operation. We are, therefore, 
lastly instructed, that we ought to run our Christian course in patient submission to the 
Divine Will, during the contest between good and evil, being well aware, that in such 
contest the opposition of evil is made to administer to the fuller implantation and 
fructification of good, and that, finally, through the Divine Mercy, the entire separation 
will be accomplished, when all of evil and of error will be put down into its own 
kingdom, and all of heavenly love and wisdom will be exalted to conjunction with Jesus 
Christ and the eternal happiness of His kingdom. 

24 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE GRAIN OF MUSTARD SEED. 

Matt. 13:31, 32. 

Another parable put he forth to them, saying, The Kingdom of Heaven is like a grain of 
mustard-seed, which a man took and sowed in his field: which indeed is the least of all 
seeds; but when it is grown it is the greatest amongst herbs, and becomes a tree, so that 
the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. 

We have already seen that by the Kingdom of Heaven is meant the government of the 
Divine Love and wisdom of Jesus Christ. This kingdom is here likened to 
mustard-seed, which a man sowed in his field,
 because the growth of the divine love and 
​
wisdom in man is from a small beginning, inasmuch as man, under the first reception of 
heavenly truth, is led to suppose that he can do good from himself, and not from the Lord, 
when yet such good is nothing but evil: but whereas, he is in a state of regeneration, there 
is something of good, but the least of all. 

a grain of 

By this least of all seeds, when it is grown, being greater than herbs, and becoming a tree, 
is meant, that as faith is conjoining to love, the growth becomes greater, answering to that 
of the herb, until at length, when faith and love are fully conjoined, it acquires a full 
growth, answering to that of a tree. 

By the birds of the air are to be understood things intellectual, or truths exalted into the 
higher or inner region of the understanding; and by the branches of the tree, the scientifics 
of those truths, or truth as it is received from the letter of the Word, when it first enters the 
memory, and is there deposited, as mere science of heavenly things; and by the birds 
making their nests in these branches, is denoted, that when faith and love are fully 
conjoined, then truths, or things intellectual, continually multiply and increase their kind 
in scientifics, which are of the memory. 

We learn, generally, from this parable, that the Kingdom of Heaven, in man, who is the 
government of the Divine Love and Wisdom, is small at its beginning, because man, 
under the first reception of truth, supposes that he does good from himself. We are 
instructed further, not to be discouraged under these small beginnings, because, if we 
proceed patiently to acquire faith and love, there will be a gradual increase of heavenly 
good; until at length, when the conjunction is complete, the tree of righteousness will 
grow to its full size; in which case, things intellectual, which are heavenly truths exalted 
in the inner man, will be connected with the scientifics of truth in the outward man, and, 
by virtue of such connection, will multiply and increase immensely after their kind, until 
the human mind is restored to the order of heaven, through the reception of heavenly truth 
in all its degrees. 

25 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE LEAVEN. 

Matt. 13:33. 

Another parable spoke he to them: The Kingdom of Heaven is like leaven, which a woman 
took and hid in three barrels of meal, till the whole was leavened. 

By the Kingdom of Heaven, as was observed in the former parable, is to be understood 
the government of the Divine Love and Wisdom. This government is like leaven, because 
by leaven is effected fermentation, and consequent purification of the bodies with which it 
is mixed. 

Leaven, as being a fermenting substance, denotes all false principles of the understanding 
and life, and the three measures of meal denote all principles of heavenly truth in the 
regenerate mind. The comparison, therefore, here used by Jesus Christ, was intended to 
remind us of the combats which take place in such a mind, between false principles and 
true, with a view to the purification of the latter. For the effect of such combats is, to exalt 
in man the principles of heavenly love and charity above those of mere speculative truth 
and knowledge; and when man begins to act from the former principles, then the latter 
become purified, which they never can be so long as man acts from them alone, and not 
from the principles of heavenly love and charity. 

By the woman is meant the Church, which is called woman, from the affection of truth, 
which makes the Church. 

We learn from this parable, that the Kingdom of Heaven can never be opened and formed 
in man, until truth is purified from what is false, and that such purification cannot be 
effected without combat, by which is produced a kind of spiritual fermentation, in which 
case, good is conjoined with truth, and then all false principles are separated like dregs.  

26 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE TREASURE HID IN A FIELD. 

Matt. 13:44. 

Again, the Kingdom of Heaven is like treasure hid in a field; which when a man has 
found, he hides, and for joy thereof goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field. 

By the field is here meant the Church; and by the treasure hid in it is understood the 
Divine Truth in the Word of God, which lies concealed under the letter. 

A man finds this treasure of the Divine Truth of God's word, when he is enlightened to 
see the distinction between the letter of the Word and the Spirit, and how the latter opens 
to him the Kingdom of Heaven, being in continual connection with Jesus Christ and His 
angelic kingdom. 

He is said to hide the treasure of the Divine Truth when he stores it up in his interior 
mind, where it remains concealed from the observation of others, and even of himself, 
except when he is called to some particular notice of it; in which sense the Lord is said to 
feed him with the hidden manna (See: Rev. 2:17). 

But it is said, that

for joy thereof goes and sells all that he has, and buys that field. 

By the joy is meant the delight arising from the affection of truth; for all joy comes from 
some affection, and spiritual joy from the affection of good and truth. 

His going away denotes that he applied himself to live and act in agreement with the 
Divine Truth which he had found; and by selling all that he has, is meant that he 
renounces his own self-love, which had before led him to regard his faculties and 
possessions as his own, independent of God, and that he now discovers that he possesses 
nothing properly his own, because all things are God's. 

To buy, is an expression used in the Sacred Scripture, to denote the procuring of spiritual 
property; and, therefore, by buying that field, is meant the procuring to himself the 
spiritual treasure of the Divine Truth which was hid in it: and this is the case whenever 
man renounces self-love, and exalts the Divine Truth in his own heart and life, as the 
blessed source of all that can be good, and wise, and happy for him. 

This parable teaches us that in the Word of God is stored up the eternal treasure of the 
Divine Truth, and that when a man is wise to discover this treasure, he stores it up in the 
interiors of his mind, and suffers it to guide and govern him in all his affections, thoughts, 
words, and works. We learn further, that through this treasure he is led to renounce his 
self-love, and to acknowledge all his faculties and possessions, not only to be the gifts of 
God, but also continually to be God's, and that by this acknowledgement he procures to 
himself all the blessing, protection, guidance, and government of the Eternal Truth, which 
is of Jesus Christ, and in continual connection with his Divine Life and Love. 

27 

 
​
 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE MERCHANT-MAN SEEKING GOODLY PEARLS. 

Matt. 13:45,46. 

Again, the Kingdom of Heaven is like a merchant-man seeking goodly pearls: who, when 
he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it. 

A merchant-man, in the spiritual sense of the word, means one who procures to himself 
the knowledges of truth and of good, and thus attains intelligence and wisdom, agreeably 
to which idea, it is said, in the book of Proverbs, that 
the merchandise of wisdom is better 
(Prov. 3:14). 
than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold 
​

By goodly pearls are meant the knowledges of truth, and by seeking those pearls is meant 
the affection of truth for its own sake, because nothing but such an affection can properly 
discover the truth. In the same sense, we are called to seek the Kingdom of God and his 
righteousness, to teach us that we ought to be affected with the Kingdom of God and His 
righteousness above all other things. 

By the one pearl of great price is meant the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and especially of 
the union of His Divine Nature with the human, and of the human reciprocally with the 
Divine, until He became, even as to His humanity, the only God of heaven and earth. 

This pearl is called a pearl of great price, because the knowledge of Jesus Christ is the 
most precious and blessed of all other knowledges, being the essential life of all others, 
insomuch that without this knowledge, all other knowledges are comparatively as dead, 
having no connection with their living source. 

Man is said to find this precious pearl of spiritual knowledge when, from the affection of 
truth, for its own sake, he seeks it in the Word of God, and discovers its brightness and 
value in his understanding: and he is said to find the knowledge of Jesus Christ when, 
from the same affection, he delights in the discovery from the Holy Word, that Jesus 
Christ is the Most High God, because in His Divine Person the Father and the Son, or the 
Divinity and Humanity are made eternally One, and constitute the Supreme and Sole 
Object of all Christian worship. 

By the man's going is meant that he formed his life according to the knowledge of truth 
which he had discovered; and by his selling all that he had and buying it, is meant that he 
submitted all things of his natural life to be governed and guided by the Lord's life, that is 
to say, by His Divine Love and Wisdom. 

We learn from this parable that every man ought to consider himself as a spiritual 
merchant-man, sent into the world to seek the goodly pearls of the Eternal Wisdom, 
which are the bright knowledges of heavenly truth, procured by devout affection from the 
Word of God. We learn, also, that in seeking these heavenly pearls, if he be sincere in his 
search, he is sure, sooner or later, to discover the one pearl of great price, which is the 
saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And, lastly, we learn, that when he has found this pearl, 
he goes and sells all that he has and buys it; in other words, he renounces self-love, that he 
may submit all his affections, thoughts, words, and works, to the mild and gentle 
government of the Divine Love and Wisdom of Jesus Christ. 

28 

 
​
29 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE NET CAST INTO THE SEA. 

Matt. 13:47-50. 

The Kingdom of Heaven is like a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every 
Kind: which, when it was full, they drew to shore, and sat down, and gathered the good 
into vessels, cast out the bad away. So shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall 
come forth, and sever the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them into the 
furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. 

The Kingdom of Heaven is here like a net cast into the sea; because by a net cast into the 
sea is figured and represented a gathering together of natural men to be instructed in the 
knowledge of the truth, and therefore the Apostles were called fishers of men, because 
they so collected and instructed them. 

By this net bringing together of every kind is to be understood the collecting and 
instructing of all, both the good and the evil; for amongst natural men there is a 
difference, some being disposed to receive the Eternal Truth, and, by such reception, to 
become spiritual men, whilst others are disposed to reject the truth, and, by such rejection, 
to remain natural men. 

The net is said to be full when full instruction has been received, or when all who are in 
the Church have imbibed the knowledges of truth. 

By drawing it to the shore is meant a new state, when all who have received instruction 
are to be judged according to the use they have made of it in attaining, or not attaining, to 
the good of instruction, for the end of all instruction is, that man may attain the Eternal 
Good of Love and Charity. 

Sitting, in the language of the Sacred Scriptures, is an expression used to denote a state of 
the will, or love, united with its proper wisdom; and since judgement is here treated of, or 
the separation of the evil from the good, therefore sitting down is here spoken of, because 
all such judgement is effected from the union of Love and Wisdom, or of Goodness and 
Truth. 

By gathering the good into vessels, and casting the bad away, is to be understood the 
accomplishment of a work of judgement, or separation, when a fullness of instruction has 
been received; on which occasion, they who are principled in heavenly Good of Love and 
Charity, are gifted with all convenient truths and knowledges, by which the life is 
perfected to all eternity; whilst they who are principled in evil of selfish and worldly love, 
are deprived of all truth and knowledge, and left to perish in the fire of their own cravings. 

From this parable we learn that all mankind, whether they be good, or evil, receive 
instruction from Heaven, in one degree or other, whereby they may be saved, and that 
such instruction is first received in a natural state. We learn further, that after instruction 
succeeds another state, which is that of exploration, or judgement, concerning the use 
which has been made of instruction. And, lastly, we learn, that they who have profited by 
instruction, so as to attain by it to a state of heavenly Love and Charity, are then gifted 
with new truths and knowledges in great abundance, for their further purification and 
regeneration; but that they who have not profited by instruction, by removing the evil of 

30 

 
selfish and worldly love, and attaining to heavenly Love and Charity, are, in the Day of 
judgement, deprived of all the knowledge of truth, and left to be consumed and tormented 
by their own evil lusts. 

31 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE INSTRUCTED SCRIBE. 

Matt. 13:52. 

Therefore, every Scribe instructed to the Kingdom of Heaven is like a man that is an 
Householder, which brings forth out of his treasure things new and old. 

is one who is initiated into the goods and 
Scribe instructed to the Kingdom of Heaven 
​

A 
truths of the Word of God, from which the Kingdom of Heaven is derived. 

The Householder is the Lord Himself, because He is the sole proprietor of all things in the 
Grand House called Heaven and the Church. 

Every one becomes like this Householder, in other words, every one becomes an image 
and likeness of God, that is to say, of Jesus Christ, by the reception of His Wisdom and 
Love, Wisdom being an image, and Love a likeness, and a likeness particularly in this 
respect, that man in such case wills and acts freely as from himself, as God wills and acts 
freely from himself; but yet under the full acknowledgement that the all, both of will and 
action, is from God. 

The treasures of the Great Householder, Jesus Christ, are all the Divine Goods and Truths 
of His own Most Holy Word; and the things new and old, which He brings out of those 
treasures, are the interior and exterior Goods and Truths which He dispenses to mankind; 
the interior things of the Holy Word being called new, and the exterior things being called 
old, because the interior things are always filled with new life from their Living Fountain, 
whilst the exterior things, being more remote from that Life, are, comparatively, called 
old. 

We learn from this parable, that in receiving into our minds and lives the Goods and 
Truths of God's Most Holy Word, we ought to imitate the Divine Giver of that Word, by 
not separating the letter from the spirit, nor the spirit from the letter; in other words, by 
not dividing between the internal and external sense of the Divine Law. Thus we learn, 
that we ought to cherish Goodness and Truth, in all their degrees, both internal and 
external, and to apply them to the regulation of our lives, since internal Good and Truth, 
without external, are imperfect and powerless, as external Good and Truth, without 
internal, want their life and fullness. 

32 

 
​
 
THE SUMMARY OF THE INTERNAL SENSE OF THE 
FOREGOING PARABLES, 

IN THEIR CONNEXION WITH EACH OTHER. 

When viewed in a connected series, these parables express and describe the whole process 
of regeneration, commencing with the first reception of Heavenly Truth from the Word, 
and advancing through all gradations of its growth to the full maturity of heavenly love 
and life. 

The first parable of the Sower, describes the first insemination of Truth, which is the first 
step towards the regenerate life: the second parable of the Weeds of the Field, describes 
the manifestation of Evils and Falses in consequence of such insemination, which is a 
second step, and an effect of the first: the third parable of the Grain of Mustard Seed, 
describes the small increase of heavenly life, whilst man supposes that he does good from 
himself alone, and not from the Lord, which is a third state in the regeneration: the fourth 
parable of the Leaven, &c., describes the temptations consequent on the reception of 
heavenly truth and good, which is a fourth state: the fifth parable of Treasure Hid in a 
Field, describes the further effect of the reception of heavenly truth and good, in leading 
man to renounce his proprium, or his own proper life, that he may appropriate the life of 
heaven, signified by selling all that he has, and buying that field, which is a fifth state: the 
sixth parable, speaking of the Merchant-man seeking Goodly Pearls, describes the effect 
of heavenly truth in leading man to the acknowledgement of the Lord, as the alone source 
of all good and truth, and to the consequent renunciation of self-love and its guidance, 
which is a sixth state: the seventh parable of a Net cast into the Sea, describes the last 
effect of the reception of heavenly truth and good, in accomplishing a full and final 
separation between Goods and Evils, and between Truths and Falses, so that Goods and 
Truths are brought into conjunction with Heaven, whilst Evils and Falses are cast down 
into Hell, and this is the seventh and last state of the regenerate life. 

33 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

NOT THAT WHICH GOES INTO THE MOUTH DEFILES. 

Matt. 15:10, 11. 

And He called the multitude, and said to them. Hear and under stand: not that which goes 
into the mouth defiles a man, but that which comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man. 

 and 
called
​

Of the two expressions 
to the divine wisdom; and, therefore, both expressions are used, in order to mark the 
heavenly marriage of love and wisdom, or of goodness and truth, which pervades every 
part of the Word of God, and from, and according to which, the Blessed Jesus on all 
occasions spoke. 

 the first has relation to the divine love, the second 
said,
​

Again, the term 
 has more respect to the will, or love of man, as the term understand 
hear
​
has more respect to the intellectual principle, or the understanding of man, and, therefore, 
the two terms, like called and said, are applied in reference to the heavenly marriage 
above spoken of, and to point out the necessity, on the part of man, of receiving and 
cherishing the Eternal Truth, both in his will and understanding, or with his affection and 
thought, before he can fully comprehend, and rightly profit by it. 

By those things which enter into the mouth, in the sense of the letter, are meant foods of 
every kind, which, after use in the body, pass off through the stomach into the drain; but 
in the spiritual sense, by those things which enter into the mouth are signified all things, 
which, from the memory, and also from the world, enter into the thought; these things 
also correspond to food, and those which enter into the thought, and not at the same time 
into the will, do not render man unclean, for the memory, and hence the thought, are to 
man only as an entrance to him, inasmuch as the will is the man himself; those things 
which only enter into the thought, and no further, are rejected, as it were, through the 
belly into the drain; from which considerations it is evident, that by that which enters into 
the mouth, in the spiritual sense, is signified what enters into the thought from the 
memory and from the world; but by that which goes forth out of the mouth, in the 
spiritual sense, is signified thought derived from the will, or from the love; for by the 
heart, from which it goes forth from the mouth, and out of the mouth, is signified the will 
and love of man; and inasmuch as the love, or will, constitute the whole man, hence those 
things which go forth from the mouth, and out of the mouth, render man unclean. 

In the Gospel according to St. Mark, where this same parable is recorded, we read, that 
what 

(Mark 7:19). 
enters into the belly, and goes out into the drain, purges all meats 
​

The reason why the belly is said to purge all meats is, because by the belly is signified the 
thought of the understanding, as was said above; and by meats are signified all spiritual 
nourishments, and the thought of the understanding is what separates unclean things from 
clean, and thereby purges. 

for out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, 

It is also added, 
fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies, - 
by which we are to understand not only 
​
natural evils, but the spiritual evils which they signify; thus, by evil thoughts, or, as it 
might be better expressed, evil reasonings, are to be understood all oppositions in will and 
understanding to heavenly truth and good, whence come, first, murders, or the different 

34 

 
​
​
​
​
​
modes of destroying charity; secondly, adulteries, or the perversions of good; thirdly, 
fornications, or the perversions of truth; fourthly, thefts, or the persuasions that life is 
self-derived; fifthly, false witness, or the confounding of good with evil, and of what is 
true with what is false; sixthly, blasphemies, or denials of the Lord's Divinity, and, thus, 
of all Divine Influence. 

these are the things which 
By the words which follow, and which conclude this parable, 
defile the man; but to eat with unwashed hands defiles not the man;
 Jesus Christ would 
​
teach, that man cannot desist from thinking evil, but from doing it; and that as soon as he 
receives evil from the thought into the will, in this case it does not go forth, but enters into 
him, and this is said to enter into the heart, and the things which thence go forth render 
him unclean, because what a man wills, this goes forth into speech and into act, so far as 
external restraints do not forbid; this, therefore, defiles, but to eat with unwashed hands 
does not defile, because to eat with unwashed hands, according to the spiritual idea, is to 
receive and cherish heavenly good, before purification has been effected by means of 
heavenly truth. 

In the relation of this parable, as it is given in the Gospel according to St. Mark, the evils 
enumerated, as proceeding from the heart, are not only more numerous, but also stand in a 
different order from those enumerated in the Gospel according to St. Matthew; for thus it 
is written, in the former Gospel, on the occasion, 
for from within, out of the heart of men, 
proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, 
 Thus, in the Gospel according 
lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness.
​
to St. Mark, thirteen different classes of evils are enumerated, and the evil of murder is 
reckoned after the evils of adultery and fornication; whereas, in the Gospel according to 
St. Matthew, only seven classes of evils are enumerated, whilst the evil of murder 
precedes the evils of adultery and fornication. 

Perhaps it is impossible for any finite intelligence to discover, and still more so to 
comprehend, all the depths of the divine wisdom involved in the difference here alluded 
to. Yet, if we are not allowed to see and apprehend the whole, it may still be granted us to 
investigate a part of the hidden treasures, at least, to form some conjecture concerning 
their nature and their value. May we not, therefore, without presumption, suggest the 
following query, namely: Whether the two distinct classes of evils, as above enumerated 
by the two Evangelists, may not be referred to the two grand, but distinct, fountains of all 
evil, namely, self-love, and the love of the world? Certain it is, that all evils originate in 
those two polluted fountains; and it is equally certain that, according to their origin, they 
take rank in a different order, which may account for the difference, in this respect, in the 
Evangelical history. It is remarkable, too, that in the relation of the parable given by both 
Evangelists, evil thoughts, or, more properly, evil reasonings, are placed at the head of the 
catalogue; by which is plainly implied, that all evils have their birth from perverse love in 
the will, confirmed by perverse thought in the understanding. But the term evil, here 
annexed to thought, is differently expressed in the original Greek of the two Evangelists; 
for, in St. Matthew, it is expressed by the adjective 
 which is a further proof that the perverse love in the will is of a different 
kacoi,
adjective 
​
quality, and from a different source in the two cases. But, whatever uncertainty there may 
be in the above conjecture, there can be no doubt of this, that all evils originate in 
perverse love, confirmed by perverse thought; and that whether this perverse love be the 
love of self, or the love of the world, the progeny derived from its conjunction with its 
favourite false reasonings and persuasions is both numerous and frightful, closing either 

 and, in St. Mark, by the 
poneroi,
​

35 

 
​
​
​
​
in blasphemy or in foolishness, thus, either in the total denial of all divine influence, or in 
a total blindness, as to all the certainties and consolations of the divine wisdom. 

We learn, then, from this parable, that there is a correspondence, or agreement, between 
the body and the spirit of man, and all the parts and principles of each, for in speaking of 
the thought and understanding of man, Jesus Christ expresses it by the mouth; and, again, 
in speaking of the will, or love, of man. He expresses it by the heart, which is a manifest 
proof that there is an agreement, or correspondence, between those bodily organs and 
those mental principles; so that what is true of the former, in regard to the body, is true of 
the latter, in regard to the spirit. We learn, further, that the evil which enters into man's 
thought, and is there rejected, so as not to be allowed admission into the will, or love, 
does not defile him, and that it only acquires the faculty of defiling- when it is cherished 
in his will, or love, and is suffered to proceed thence into act or operation. We learn, 
lastly, that there are several distinct genera, or species, of spiritual evil, which have all of 
them their origin from a perverse will and a perverse understanding, and which may be 
reduced to two distinct classes, namely, those which are derived from the love of self, and 
those which are derived from the love of the world, when those loves become 
predominant loves.  

Let us resolve, therefore, to profit by all this divine instruction, and, for this purpose, to 
beg of Jesus Christ the illumination of His Holy Spirit, to enable us to discern, not only 
that the body of man is in perpetual connection with his spirit, and derives from it all its 
life, but likewise that all the parts of In's body are exact representative figures of the 
several principles in his spirit from which they proceed, and which they are intended to 
express. Let us resolve, further, to supplicate His divine grace, to enable us to discern the 
true and only source of all human defilement, until we discover clearly that this source is 
not in the thought or understanding, but in the will, or love; and to enable us farther to 
take heed, lest at any time we be found cherishing evil in this latter principle of mind and 
life, since in such case it must of necessity burst forth into manifestation, and cause 
defilement. Lastly, let us resolve to refer all evils to their two grand fountains, self-love, 
and the love of the world, and, especially to guard against the thoughts, or reasonings, 
derived from those two corrupt sources, when they become predominant; since from such 
thoughts, or reasonings, all evils are generated, which either defile or destroy mankind. 
Thus may we humbly hope, that the mind, or spirit, with which we have been gifted, 
instead of becoming the filthy den of the unclean affections of murder, of adultery, of 
fornication, of theft, of false witness, and of blasphemy, will become the clean and 
consecrated abode of charity, of purity, both in will and thought; of justice, of truth, and 
of devout acknowledgement that Jesus Christ, in His Divine Humanity, is the Father and 
Fountain of all life, love, peace, and benediction. Amen. 

36 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE KING THAT WOULD TAKE ACCOUNT OF HIS 
SERVANTS. 

Matt. 18:23-35. 

Therefore is the Kingdom of Heaven like a certain King, who would take account of his 
servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought to him, which owed him ten 
thousand talents. But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be 
sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. The servant 
therefore fell down and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me and I will 
pay you all. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him 
and forgave him the debt. But the same: servant went out, and found one of his 
fellow-servants, which owed him an hundred pence: and he laid hands on him, and took 
him by the throat, saying, Pay me that you owe. And his fellow-servant fell down at his 
feet, and besought him, saying. Have patience with me, and I will pay you all. And he 
would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. So when his 
fellow-servants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told to their Lord 
all that was done. Then his Lord, after that he had called him, said to him, O you wicked 
servant, I forgave you all that debt, because you pleaded with me: should not you also 
have had compassion on your fellow-servant, even as I had pity on you? And his Lord was 
angry, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due to him. So 
likewise shall my heavenly Father do also to you, if you from your hearts forgive not 
every one his brother their trespasses. 

By the King is here meant Jesus Christ, as to His Divine Wisdom, or Truth, and by taking 
account of his servants is to be understood, the exercise of judgement from that Divine 
Wisdom, or Truth, so as to discover the qualities of each. 

The ten thousand talents denote the immense debt which every man owes to his Creator 
for all the mercies of creation, preservation, redemption, and regeneration, which he has 
received at his hands. 

No one is able of himself to pay this immense debt, nor even to take account of it, because 
he had not to pay. 
of its immensity, therefore it is said 

his Lord commanding him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, 

By 
and payment to be made,
 is meant, that the man was brought into trial and exercise in his 
​
own mind, from a consciousness that, unless he paid the debt which was owing, he could 
not escape condemnation. 

The first effect produced by this trial and exercise on the part of man, was humiliation, 
signified by the man falling down: the second effect was acknowledgement of the Lord, 
His Divine Love, Wisdom, and Providence, signified by worshipping him: the third effect 
was intercession for a such a measure of patient endurance, as might enable him finally to 
discharge the debt by a full acknowledgement of the mercies he had received. 

By the Lord being moved with compassion, is meant the tenderness of the Divine Love 
towards His penitent children, when brought into judgement concerning trespasses, and 
especially concerning that immense debt which they owe to the Divine Being. 

37 

 
​
​
By loosing him, is to be understood that his Affections were set at liberty to pursue an 
eternal object, in consequence of the spiritual trial and exercise through which he had 
passed. For such is the nature and effect of spiritual trial, that by it the powers of evil, to 
which the mind had been before subjected as a miserable slave, are disturbed and 
removed, in which case the soul regains its proper liberty, and being loosed from the 
bands of worldly and selfish attachments, regains its native freedom, to choose and pursue 
the eternal good for which it was created in the kingdom and favour of its Great Creator. 

The debt which every man owes to God is forgiven, or remitted, whenever man is brought 
into true humiliation of heart and life, because, in such case, he is disposed gratefully to 
acknowledge that all his faculties, both of body and mind, are from God, and are God's; 
consequently, that all his happiness, and even all his temporal property, are from the same 
Divine Source. 

servant that he went forth and found one of his fellow-servants, who owed 

It is said of the 
him an hundred pence, and that he took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that you owe; 
and that his fellow-servant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience 
with me and I will pay you all. And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, until 
he should pay the debt. 
From this part of the parable we learn that, notwithstanding the 
​
operation of the Divine Love and Mercy in the inner man, the outward man was not yet 
reduced to obedience, so as to comply with that operation by correspondent acts of 
kindness and charity; in other words, the external man was not yet brought into entire 
submission to the law of the divine life and spirit in the internal man, as it ought to have 
been. 

 are meant the dictates of heavenly truth, in the external man; and by 
fellow-servants
​

By 
their seeing what was done, is to be understood, that all things in the external man are 
under the view, or instruction, of the Divine Truth; and by their being exceedingly sorry is 
meant, the contrariety subsisting between the dictates of heavenly truth, and the 
unpurified affections of the natural mind before it is regenerated; and by their telling to 
their Lord the things which were done is meant, the influx and communication of the 
Divine Truth itself with those dictates. 

By the Lord 
 is to be understood, the Divine Truth itself, which has its abode 
calling him
​
in the inmost principles of every human mind; and by what the Lord says to the servant, 
on this occasion, is to be understood, the influx of that truth into lower principles, 
reproving them for not attending to the operations of the Divine Mercy respecting them, 
and teaching that it is the intention of this mercy to produce its saving and blessed effects 
in the external, or natural, man, as they are manifested in the internal, or spiritual, man, 
that so the whole man may become a living operative form of that mercy. 

 is to be understood, the contrariety subsisting between the 
angry
​

By the Lord being 
Divine Truth and the natural propensity of the unregenerate man; and by delivering him to 
the tormentors is meant, the pain experienced on the occasion in the consciences of those 
who are about to be regenerated. 

 from which words we learn, that the 
until he should pay all that was due to him,
It is said, 
​
pain of trial and temptation is continued until a total surrender is made of the human will 
to the Divine, attended with the grateful acknowledgement, that all of saving Mercy, 
Love, Wisdom, Peace, and Protection are from God, and nothing at all from man's self; 
and, further, that man ought to extend in himself the operation of those Divine Virtues and 
Graces, by being kind, compassionate, and merciful to others, as God is to him. 

38 

 
​
​
​
​
​
The general instruction which we learn from this parable, is, that every man, from 
Creation, and also from Redemption, owes an immense debt to his Great Creator, and that 
the only method by which he can discharge this debt, is to forgive the debts of his 
fellow-creatures; in other words, to cherish towards them the spirit of heavenly Charity, 
by which he will be taught that, instead of their being indebted to him, as he must of 
necessity suppose in his natural and unconverted state, the truth is, that he is indebted to 
them, and that there is no human being to whom he does not owe obligation, more or less. 
We learn, further, from this parable, that it is the great intention of God to bring the 
internal and external man into agreement and conjunction, that so the Divine Love and 
Wisdom, in the internal man, may operate freely, and produce their proper fruits in the 
external man; but that this intention of the Divine Mercy cannot be accomplished without 
trials and temptations, by which the natural opposition of the external man to the Divine 
Rule may be overcome, and the whole man may finally be reduced to a state of total 
submission. 

39 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE HOUSEHOLDER WHO HIRED LABOURERS INTO 
HIS VINEYARD. 

Matt. 20:1-16. 

For the Kingdom of Heaven is like a man that is an Householder, which went out early in 
the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the 
labourers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. And he went out about the 
third hour, and saw others standing idle in the market-place, and said to them; Go you 
also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way. 
Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise. And about the 
eleventh hour he went out, and found others standing idle, and says to them. Why stand 
you here all the day idle? They say to him. Because no man has hired us. He says to them. 
Go you also into the vineyard; and whatsoever is right, that shall you receive. So when 
evening was come, the lord of the vineyard says to his steward. Call the labourers, and 
give them their hire, beginning from the last to the first. And when they came that were 
hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny. But when the first came, 
they supposed that they should have received more; and they likewise received every man 
a penny. And when they had received it, they murmured against the owner of the house, 
saying. These last have worked but one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who 
have borne the burden and heat of the day. But he answered one of them, and said, 
Friend, I do you no wrong: did not you agree with me for a penny? Take what is yours, 
and go your way: I will give to this last, even as to you. Is it not lawful for me to do what I 
will with mine own! Is your eye evil, because I am good? So the last shall be first, and the 
first last: for many be called, but few chosen. 

The Householder signifies Jesus Christ, as to his human and divine nature, who is so 
called, as being the Source and Preserver of all Goods and Truths, which make Heaven 
and the Church. 

Early in the morning denotes the first state of the Church, when the light of the Divine 
Truth, which makes the Church, first begins to be manifested; and by going out early in 
the morning is signified, the first dawn of the influx of the Divine Good and Truth into the 
men of the Church. 

By the vineyard is meant the Church, which is called a vineyard, from its being planted 
with vines, or heavenly truths, derived from Jesus Christ, who is the True Vine; and by 
the labourers in this vineyard are to be understood, all those who cherish in heart and life 
the above Goods and Truths of the Word of God, preserving them from all those natural 
evils and false persuasions which have a tendency to destroy them; and by hiring these 
labourers is to be understood, the blessed recompense of heavenly and eternal life, 
proposed to all such faithful labourers. 

It is said, that when the Householder 
sent them into his vineyard. 

had agreed with the labourers for a penny a day, he 

By a penny a day is to be understood, the recompense given and procured under every 
truth; and by agreeing with the 
particular state of the reception and growth of heavenly

40 

 
​
​
 
​
labourers for this penny is to be further understood, conjunction of life with Jesus Christ, 
which is the result of that reception and growth. 

Sending, when applied to the Divine Being, denotes the putting forth, or emanation, of 
His own Divine Power; and, therefore, by sending the labourers into his vineyard is to be 
understood, the communicating to them Divine Power from Himself, by which they might 
be enabled 'to cherish, in their own hearts and lives, the heavenly goods and truths of His 
Most Holy Word. 

By the Householder going out is to be understood, the Divine Influx into the men of the 
Church; and by his going out about the third hour, is to be understood, a successive state 
of natural life with the men of the Church. 

The market-place signifies a state of the natural life in which man is capable of procuring 
to himself the Goods and Truths of Heaven and the Church; and by the Householder 
seeing others standing idle in it is to be understood, the Divine inspection exercised on 
those who were not yet converted from a natural state of life to a spiritual state, having 
never done the work of repentance from a sincere desire to attain regeneration through 
conjunction with the Divine Love and Wisdom. All such are said to be idle, because they 
have never applied themselves to that one thing needful, which is the great work for 
which they were sent into the world. 

But the Householder 
will give you. 

said to them, Go you also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is just, I 

By saying to them is meant, a Divine dictate in their hearts and consciences; and by go 
also into the vineyard is meant, the object of that dictate, in instructing them that it is the 
Divine Will, grounded in the Divine Love and Mercy, that no human being should stand 
idle, but that every one should endeavour to cultivate, in his own heart and life, those 
heavenly graces and virtues which the Father of Mercies is desirous to implant in the 
minds of all his children, for their eternal happiness and salvation. 

By the words, whatsoever is just I will give you, the Householder would instruct the idle, 
that they have a just God to deal with, who rewards every one according to his works; in 
other words, who imparts the grace of His own Love and Wisdom to every one, in 
proportion to his desire of it. 

The sixth and ninth hour signify successive states of the natural life before man becomes 
spiritual; and by doing likewise is meant the same thing as hiring labourers into his 
vineyard; that is to say, the recompense of eternal life, proposed to all those of the 
Church, who are faithful and diligent in cultivating the graces of the Divine Love and 
Wisdom. 

We now come to the eleventh hour, which is mentioned in the succeeding verse. Jesus 
Christ distinguishes the period of human life into twelve hours, when he says, 
Are there 
not twelve hours in the day?
 By the eleventh hour, therefore, is to be understood, the last 
​
period of natural life preceding its completion; in other words, preceding the period of 
final decision, either for eternal happiness or misery. 

The Householder now first proposes the question, 
the intent that he might lead those to whom it was addressed, to make the profitable 
inquiry in themselves concerning the causes which withhold them from cultivating the 
graces, and bringing forth the fruits of the Divine Love and Wisdom in their own minds 
and lives. For such is the design of all inquiry proceeding from the Most High. It is not 

? to 
Why stand you here all the day idle
​

41 

 
​
​
​
made for his own sake, or for his own information, but for the sake and for the 
information of others, by suggesting to them the spirit of inquisition which may conduct 
them to a right knowledge of God and of themselves, by leading them to explore their 
own secret intentions and purposes, and thus to discover the interior operations of their 
own minds. 

 we learn, that the true reason why 
Because no man has hired us,
​

From the answer, 
mankind, in general, live carelessly, and with indifference to their eternal concerns, is, 
because they have never been brought to reflect, in their own minds, on the inconceivable 
happiness reserved in heaven for all those who have cherished in their hearts and lives the 
graces of heaven; that is to say, the graces and virtues resulting from a right reception of 
the Divine Love and Wisdom. 

when evening was come, the Lord of the vineyard said to his steward. Call 

It is said, that 
the labourers, and give them their hire, beginning from the last to the first.
 By the evening 
​
is meant in this passage, the termination, or final period, of man's natural life, when he 
enters upon the great realities of another world, and becomes associated with spiritual 
beings in that world, agreeing with the interior state of his own mind, whether it be good 
or evil. 

The Lord of the vineyard properly denotes the Divine Good of the Divine Love; and His 
steward, therefore, denotes the Divine Truth of His Wisdom; hence, as a steward 
administers to his Lord, so the Divine Truth administers to the Divine Good. Moreover, 
all man's spiritual recompense is dispensed from the Divine Good by, or through, the 
Divine Truth; and, therefore, the Lord of the vineyard here says to his steward: Call the 
labourers, and give them their hire; because the hire of the labourers denotes their spiritual 
recompense, and all spiritual recompense is from the Divine Good, in conjunction with 
the Divine Truth. 

because the subject relates to recompense, 
beginning from the last to the first, 
​

It is said, 
and all recompense has reference to joy, delight, and happiness; and this recompense 
commences, first, in the natural principle, which is the last, or lowest, and then advances 
to the higher, or first principles of the human mind, called spiritual and celestial; nor is it 
full till it is communicated conjointly to all the principles. 

By a penny, it has been already shown, is meant the recompense given and procured 
under every particular state of the reception and growth of heavenly truth; and, therefore, 
by receiving each a penny, is to be understood, that each received a recompense of 
heavenly joy and delight, proportioned to the reception and growth of heavenly truth in 
his own mind and life. 

By the first supposing that they should receive more than a penny, it was intended to point 
out what is the general mistake and misapprehension of mankind in regard to future 
recompense. For it is commonly supposed, that what is called the recompense of the 
righteous will be dealt out hereafter, either according to the arbitrary mercy of the 
Almighty, or in the way of payment for particular acts of service done by his creatures, 
just as a master here on earth pays his servant wages for the work which he has 
performed. Whereas, the real truth is, that every one is rewarded hereafter, according to 
his reception of heavenly life; and since all heavenly life is of love and charity, therefore, 
every one is rewarded hereafter according to the state of his mind, in regard to those two 
heavenly principles, namely, Love to the Lord, and Charity towards his neighbour. It is, 
moreover, to be observed, that all heavenly joy and delight spring from, and are connected 

42 

 
​
​
​
with, those two heavenly loves, and, therefore, it is impossible for any one to attain 
heavenly joy and delight, which is the pure recompense of the righteous, only so far as, by 
the cultivation of heavenly truth in his mind, and its fructification in his life, he is 
rendered receptive of the full influence and operation of the above two heavenly loves. 
These first, therefore, likewise received every one a penny; in other words, they received 
happiness according to the state of their love and affection. 

But it is said, that 
saying, These last have worked one hour and you have made them equal to us who have 
borne the burden and heat of the day. 

when they had received it, they murmured against the Householder, 

This murmuring denotes, that they had not worked in the vineyard from a right principle, 
but rather to establish their own merits; in other words, they had done good with a view to 
recompense, and not from the love and affection of doing good; and they had imbibed 
truth for selfish or worldly ends, and not from the genuine affection of truth for its own 
sake. And, where this is the case, it is always attended with a desire of pre-eminence and 
distinction, even in spiritual things; whereas, the love of goodness for the sake of 
goodness, and of truth for the sake of truth, is always accompanied with that spirit of 
self-humiliation and charity towards others which takes delight in seeing others exalted 
even to the highest state of happiness, whilst it is content itself to take the lowest place. 
And the reason is, because true love and charity find all their happiness in seeing others 
happy, and in serving them to promote their happiness. 

The burden and heat of the day are expressions to denote spiritual labour, or the 
difficulties which man has to surmount in the work of regeneration. Two distinct 
expressions, therefore, are made use of, to denote the two distinct sources of such 
difficulty, namely, error in the human understanding, and evil in the will, the former being 
called a burden, and the latter heat. To bear the burden and heat of the day, then, is to 
endure patiently the opposition arising from the natural false persuasions in the 
understanding, and the natural cravings or perverse desires in the will. The day, according 
to its spiritual meaning, denotes every successive state in the regenerate life.  

But the Householder answering, said to one of them, Friend, I do you no wrong: did you 
not agree with me for a penny? 

In the original language of the New Testament, the labourer is not here called friend, but 
companion; and this latter term is very well adapted to express the relationship subsisting 
between him and the Householder, which the term friend does not express. For a 
companion is one with whom we have acquaintance indeed, but this not of any very 
intimate sort, such as marks the connection of friendship. In the language of God, 
therefore, every man is called His companion who has gained any acquaintance with Him, 
through the knowledge of His Word and Kingdom; but he is never called a friend, until he 
obeys that knowledge, so as to find a delight in obedience, and in the application of what 
he knows to the purification and reformation of his life. 

The Householder says to the labourer, I do you no wrong, by which he meant to instruct 
him, and, through him, all the generations of men, that His ways, as being the God of the 
universe, are ways of justice and of judgement, and that He deals with all His children, 
and cannot but deal with them, according, to the most exact measure of what is right and 
equitable resulting from those divine principles. He meant, therefore, to teach further, that 
none of his children have any reason to complain of the dispensations of the Divine 
Providence towards them, because the wrong, or injustice, is always on their part, and not 

43 

 
​
on God's, from whom nothing can proceed but what is grounded in the purest love and 
mercy, directed by an infinite and unerring wisdom. 

Did you not agree with me for a penny? 

The Householder further says to the labourer, 
thus instructing him, that he had no reason to complain of injustice, when he had received 
the recompense which had been previously agreed upon; and, through him, instructing all 
labourers in the spiritual vineyard, that they always receive reward in proportion to their 
labour; in other words, that the good of heavenly love is always communicated to them in 
proportion to the earnest desire with which they seek it, and the sacrifices which they 
make of their self-love in order to attain it. 

In the next verse the original has it. 
 by which is meant, that man 
Take your own, and go;
​
ought to be content with that measure of the divine grace and mercy which is imparted to 
him by his Heavenly Father, because in all such grace and mercy, to whomsoever it is 
given, there is contained an infinity of blessing, and, therefore, he has no occasion either 
to be discontented at his own lot, or to envy another's, because it is impossible that he 
himself should receive more than an infinite good, and it is alike impossible that any one 
else should receive more, consequently, every receiver has reason to be fully contented 
with the promised recompense. 

is expressed in the original, 
I will give to this last even as to you, 
​

Again, 
 to 
I am willing
​
give to this last, even as to you; and, therefore, the Householder meant to instruct the 
labourer, and, through him, all other spiritual labourers, that God is ever willing, out of 
His adorable and inexhaustible mercy, to communicate Himself, and all that He has, to the 
least and lowest of His creatures, and that the only limit set to such communication, is the 
capacity of his creatures to receive. He meant, therefore, to improve that capacity, by 
exciting in his creatures such a devout sense of His fatherly tenderness and 
loving-kindness, as may dispose them to exert all possible earnestness in rendering 
themselves suitable to receive and to co-operate with His Divine Love and Wisdom. 

The Householder then proposes these two significant questions to this murmuring 
Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is your eye evil, 
labourer:- 
because I am good?
 The purport of the first question cannot be understood, until a 
​
 mine 
with
correction be made in its expression; for, in the original tongue, it is not said 
​
 mine own, and according to this mode of expression the sense is plain and 
in
own, but 
​
obvious, teaching that the Almighty has all power in His own kingdom, and in his own 
people, to mould and form them after His own image and likeness, but with an endless 
variety, according to the several capacities and degrees of reception in each. It was 
intended, therefore, to teach further, that man's highest duty consists in preparing himself 
to be a humble and thankful receiver of the Divine Mercy and Truth, because, in such 
case, he admits into his mind a measure of the Divine Omnipotence, to which he attaches 
himself, and in connection with which he finds the Scripture fulfilled, which says, 
things are possible to him that believes. 

All 

The question, 
 involves in it two points of the greatest 
Is your eye evil because I am good?
​
moment, to be well considered by every.intelligent mind. The first point is, that God is the 
purest goodness, and, consequently, that from him no evil can come of any sort or degree. 
The second point is, an inquiry concerning the origin of evil, and particularly concerning 
the origin of a perverse understanding, or judgement, signified here by an evil eye. The 
Almighty, therefore, by this significant question, intended to lead all his children to 
explore in themselves, so as clearly to discover, the origin of all that corruption of the 
will, or heart, and that perverseness of the understanding and thoughts, which are so 

44 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
manifestly at variance with His Divine Love and Wisdom. He meant thus to lead them to 
see that all evil originates in a perversion of good, and, therefore, is nothing else but a 
good separated from its divine source, by being supposed to belong to man as his own, 
and not to be derived continually from God. 

So the first shall be last, and the last first, for 

The parable concludes with these words. 
many are called, but few chosen,
 by which is meant, that they who have cherished humble 
​
and lowly sentiments of themselves, shall be exalted in the divine favour and mercy; in 
other words, they shall become receptive of that favour and mercy in a degree 
proportioned to their humiliation. On the contrary, they who have cherished high ideas of 
their own merits, and have thought to gain the highest place in Heaven, in the way of 
recompense for their good works, will be last and lowest in the divine estimation, and that 
because by their high opinion of their own merits they have separated themselves from a 
right reception and acknowledgement of the divine mercy and favour, and have thus been 
led to impute salvation to themselves, more than to God. 

The called, are they who receive the knowledge of God in their understandings; and since 
this is the case with the generality of those who possess the Sacred Scriptures, or Word of 
God, therefore they are said to be many: but the chosen, are they who receive the love of 
God in their wills, together with the truth of God in their understandings, for these are 
they whom God always chooses, as being in most agreement with the purities of His own 
love and mercy: and since this love of God is a plant of rarer growth than the knowledge 
of God, therefore, these are said to be comparatively few. 

We learn generally from this parable, that the Almighty in His infinite mercy, is at all 
times desirous to communicate to man His own eternal truth, for the purpose of 
reformation and regeneration, and that with this view He invites man to co-operate both 
with his will, his understanding, and his works, that so all those principles of his life may 
be formed according to the truth, and rendered productive of its heavenly fruits of love 
and charity. We are instructed further, that different persons are called, at different periods 
of life, to this great work, and that some, therefore, enter upon it at an earlier period, and 
some at a later, but that the recompense promised to all is the same, namely, that every 
one shall be gifted with heavenly love and wisdom in proportion to his desire of those 
heavenly graces, and in proportion also to the sincerity with which he labours to remove 
all opposite principles from his heart and life, and to bring all his natural affections, 
thoughts, and delights, into subjection to the spiritual ones in which they originate. We 
are, further, instructed to guard against all that selfishness of our spirit, which would 
incline us either to seek to establish our own merits, and thus to be greater in the Kingdom 
of Heaven than others, or to seek to depreciate the merits of others, and thus to love to see 
them below ourselves. And, lastly, we learn that we ought thus to abase ourselves, and to 
exalt others, from a feeling sense and apprehension of that divine inexhaustible mercy, 
which is always willing to make others happy out of itself, and which thus finds its own 
greatest bliss in imparting bliss to others. Thus may we humbly hope to become the 
greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven, whilst we are seeking to be the least, and not to be 
found amongst the called only, but amongst the chosen also, whilst we labour to bring our 
whole will, understanding, and operation, into an entire conformity and submission to the 
Divine Will, Wisdom, and Operation of Jesus Christ. 

45 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

A CERTAIN MAN WHO HAD TWO SONS. 

Matt. 21:28-32. 

A certain man had two sons; and he came to the first, and said, Son, go work today in my 
vineyard. He answered and said, I will not: but afterward he repented, and went. And he 
came to the second, and said likewise. And he answered and said, I go, sir: and went not. 
Whether of those two did the will of his father? They say to him, The first. Jesus says to 
them, Verily I say to you, that the tax collectors and the harlots go into the kingdom of 
God before you. For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you believed him 
not: but the tax collectors and the harlots believed him: and you, when you had seen it, 
repented not afterward, that you might believe him. 

In the original, it is said, a man had two sons, the word certain being added by the 
translators; and by the term man is here meant, the Lord in His Divine Humanity, who is, 
properly, the Only Man, whilst all other men are men by derivation from Him, or in 
consequence of the life which He continually imparts. By the two sons, therefore, of this 
man, are figured and represented two distinct classes of people, comprehending the whole 
human race; one of which classes, as it afterwards appears, is principled in an obedient 
will, but not so much in an enlightened understanding, whilst the other is in possession of 
an enlightened understanding, but is deficient in the point of obedience, or of a 
submissive will.  

It is written of the above man and his two sons, that 
go work today in my vineyard. 

He came to the first, and said, Son, 

Two distinct expressions are here employed to denote the two distinct principles of the 
divine love and the divine wisdom; the former of which is involved in the term came, 
whilst the latter is involved in the term said. Thus the two terms combined denote the 
marriage-union of those two divine principles, and inculcate, further, the edifying lesson, 
that before the Almighty can address man to advantage with His divine wisdom, He must 
first come, and move man's affections by the presence of His divine love; in other words, 
man must begin to regard an eternal end, before he can be qualified to understand the 
eternal truth. 

By the vineyard is spiritually understood the Lord's Church here on earth, agreeably to 
what is written in the Prophet, 
The vineyard of the Lord of Hosts is the House of Israel 
(Isaiah 5:7). And the Church is a vineyard in consequence of cherishing the principles of 
heavenly truth from Jesus Christ, who, as being the divine fountain of truth, calls Himself 
the true vine (John xv). To go, then, and work in this vineyard, is the important duty 
binding on all the children of men, as implying a life in conformity to the truth, signified 
by the term go, and also co-operation with Jesus Christ in opposing those affections, 
appetites, and passions, which are contrary to the truth, signified by the term work. It is 
said today, because by today, according to the spiritual idea, is meant, to eternity, and, 
therefore, the expression is used in order to instruct mankind, that they ought for ever to 
cherish in their minds the principles of heavenly life, by combating all contrary principles, 
and thus rendering themselves receptive, to all eternity, of the divine love and the divine 
wisdom. 

46 

 
​
​
The reply and consequent conduct of the first son involve in them two distinct 
considerations; first, that the understanding of this son was not in agreement with his 
father's requirement, which disagreement is marked by his saying, I will not; for saying 
has reference to the thought or understanding-: and, secondly, that the will of this son was 
not opposed to the father's command, on which account it is said, that afterwards he 
repented and went. By this son, therefore, as was above hinted, are represented and 
described all those of the human race, who externally, or in thought, oppose divine 
counsels, but who yet inwardly, or in affection, do not oppose; thus by this son are 
represented and described specifically the Gentiles, who are not in possession of the Word 
of revelation, and who, consequently, cherish thoughts, ideas, and persuasions, which are 
not in agreement with that Word, but who, yet, notwithstanding this disagreement in their 
intellect, are still, by reason of their simplicity and sincerity, disposed to admit the Eternal 
Truth for the rule and government of their lives. 

The reply and consequent conduct of the second son involve in them the true state of his 
mind, which was such, as to enable him to discern clearly what his duty was, and how he 
ought to comply with his father's will, whilst, at the same time, his own will was inclined 
to act contrary to his father's, and also to oppose his own sense of duty and obligation. 
Thus, this second son is a representative figure of all those of the human race, whose 
understandings are enlightened to see what line of conduct is good and right for them to 
pursue, but whose inclinations lead them in a contrary direction, in consequence of being 
opposed to all the dictates of truth and equity. He is more specifically a representative 
figure of the Jewish nation, who, being in possession of the eternal truth, as made known 
in the Word of revelation, and having their understandings thus enlightened with the 
knowledge of God, and of His Holy Laws, were yet disinclined, in will, to conform to that 
knowledge, and to obey those laws. As, therefore, the first son specifically represented the 
Gentiles, so the second son specifically represented the Jews. 

In the question, 
 the Blessed Jesus makes 
Whether of those two did the will of his father?
​
an appeal to the common sense- and reason of mankind, under the full assurance, that the 
answer would be such as is here recorded, where it is written, They say to Him, the first. 
Thus the Blessed Jesus would instruct us that the common sense and reason of mankind, 
if they were fairly consulted, would favour the great design of religion, which means 
nothing else but to call man to the discharge of the important duties which he owes to his 
Heavenly Father, because common sense and reason must see the miserable infatuation of 
all those, who profess one thing with their lips, whilst in their hearts they pursue another, 
or, what amounts to the same, who have their understandings enlightened with the 
knowledge of truth, whilst their wills are defiled and misled by the love of evil. 

In the concluding application of the parable the Blessed Jesus confirms the observation 
above made, that by the first son, there mentioned, are to be understood the Gentiles, or 
those who have not formed their understandings in agreement with the Eternal Truth; and 
that by the second son are to be understood the Jews, or those who were in possession of 
the Holy Word, and were thus acquainted with the laws and precepts of the divine 
wisdom. For, by the tax collectors and harlots, are manifestly meant the Gentiles, and the 
term you, with equal clearness, designates the Jews. In the above words, therefore, the 
Blessed Jesus evidently teaches the important lesson, that they who are principled in 
simplicity and sincerity of will; in other words, who are disposed to do the whole of their 
duty uprightly, and in the fear of God, although the knowledge of that duty is very 
incorrect, are better qualified to admit the Eternal Truth, than those who are acquainted, 

47 

 
​
intellectually, with the measures of their duty, and yet, in heart and affection, are not 
inclined to perform it. Accordingly, he declares, that the former go into the kingdom of 
God before the latter; because, by going into the kingdom of God, the same thing is meant 
as receiving the Eternal Truth, inasmuch as the reception of the Eternal Truth opens and 
forms in man the kingdom of God, and, consequently, man goes into the kingdom of God 
so far as he admits the Eternal Truth to enlighten his understanding, and regulate his love 
and life.  

 because, by 
John came to you in the way of righteousness,
​

Jesus Christ, therefore, adds, 
John is represented the Holy Word, or the Eternal Truth; and by his coming in the way of 
righteousness, is described the presence and influence of that Word in the human mind, 
and also the principles which constitute it, namely, the principles of wisdom and of love; 
for, by the way of righteousness, or, as it might be more properly expressed, the way of 
justice, both those principles are intended to be expressed, inasmuch as the term way, 
when applied in the Sacred Scriptures, has perpetual reference to truth, or doctrine, as 
righteousness, or justice, has reference equally constant to the principles of love and 
charity. When, therefore, Jesus Christ tells the Jews that they believed him not, that is to 
say, believed not John, it is the same thing as if He had said, that they received not the 
Eternal Truth; and when He adds, that the tax collectors and harlots believed him, it is 
again the same thing as if He had said, that they, who are signified by tax collectors and 
And you, 
harlots, received the Eternal Truth. Lastly, when he concludes in these words. 
when you had seen [it], repented not afterwards that you might believe.
 He teaches the 
​
additional important lesson, that they who are principled in the knowledge of the truth, 
but are not obedient to its dictates, finally reject the truth, because they are unwilling to 
renounce these evils which the truth makes manifest, or, as it is here expressed, They 
repent not that they might believe. It is said, when you had seen [it], and it is next said, 
You repented not afterwards that you might believe,
 plainly teaching that there is an 
​
essential difference between seeing the truth and believing it, and that there can be no 
proper belief, only so far as there is a desire to forsake sin, or to repent. For it is possible 
that truth may be seen by the understanding, to be truth, when yet the will, or love, is not 
affected by it, but it cannot be believed in, until the will, or love, becomes so affected as 
to be led to reject all evil as sin against God, thus to repent. 

We therefore learn from this parable, that all the families of mankind may be referred to 
two classes; one consisting of those who, in understanding, are acquainted with their duty, 
but who, in their wills, are not so well-disposed to practise it; and the other, consisting of 
those who are inclined to do their duty, but who are not so well instructed in the 
particulars which that duty requires. We learn, further, that each of these classes of 
mankind are called, by their Heavenly Father, to work today in his vineyard; in other 
words, to cherish eternally, in their minds and lives, all the principles of heaven-born 
truth, that so they may bring forth to all eternity the blessed fruits of heaven-born love and 
charity. Lastly, we learn, that they who have the light of knowledge in their 
understandings, but not the love of that light in their wills, make fair professions of 
obedience to the above call, whilst, in reality, they are disobedient, because they do not 
allow the light to remove their natural evils, and conduct them thus, in the way of 
repentance, to a state of purification and regeneration; and that, on the other hand, they 
who are well-disposed in will, but not so much enlightened in understanding, although 
they make no professions of obedience, are still obedient, because they suffer the little 
truth with which they are acquainted to control their natural evils, and bring their lives 

48 

 
​
​
under the regulations of heavenly order.  

Let us now ponder well on the distinct characters of these two classes of people, until we 
see clearly that sincere obedience to the divine law, though attended with little knowledge 
of its particular requirements, is infinitely preferable to much knowledge, if unattended 
with love and practice. Let us further consider seriously, that our Heavenly Father is 
continually saying to us, as he says to his two sons in the parable, Son, go work today in 
my vineyard, and that our eternal happiness will depend on our obedience to the call, 
because our eternal happiness must of necessity depend on the measure and degree in 
which we admit and cherish in our mind and life the blessed principles of heaven-born 
love and wisdom. Lastly, through the grace and mercy of our Heavenly Father, let us 
repent sincerely of all our sins, that so we may no longer be like the proud Pharisees of 
old, who were acquainted with the law of salvation, and yet were disobedient to that law; 
but may rather be of the blessed character of those of whom it is written. They enter into 
the kingdom of God before you. Amen. 

49 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE HOUSEHOLDER WHO PLANTED A VINEYARD. 

Matt. 21:33-41. 

There was a certain Householder, which planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, 
and dug a winepress in it, and built a tower, and let it out to tenants, and went into a far 
country; and when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants, that 
they might receive the fruits of it. And the tenants took his servants, and beat one, and 
killed another, and stoned another. Again, he sent other servants more than the first: and 
they did to them likewise. But last of all he sent to them his son, saying, They will 
reverence my son. But when the tenants saw the son, they said among themselves, This in 
the heir; come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance. And they caught him, 
and cast him out of the vineyard, and slew him. When the Lord therefore of the vineyard 
comes, what will he do to those tenants? They say to Him, He will miserably destroy those 
wicked men, and will let out his vineyard to other tenants, which shall render him the 
fruits in their seasons. 

The Householder is the Incarnate God, whose name is Jesus Christ, and He is called a 
Householder because He is All in All in His house, which is Heaven and the Church. 

By Jesus Christ being All in All in Heaven and the Church, is meant, that Heaven and the 
Church, or, what is the same thing, the angels of Heaven and men of the Church, are 
formed from, and sustained by, His divine love and wisdom, so that there is nothing in 
Heaven and the Church but what is under the guidance and government of those divine 
principles, consequently, under the guidance and government of Jesus Christ Himself. 

That Heaven and the Church may with propriety be called the house of Jesus Christ is 
evident from this consideration, because they are so called in the Sacred Scriptures. For 
the temple built by Solomon is sometimes called a temple, and sometimes a house; and 
this is the case, too, with the temple seen in vision by Ezekiel. And since there is every 
reason to believe that both these temples, or houses, were types or figures of Heaven and 
the Church, therefore, there can be no impropriety in calling Heaven and the Church the 
Lord's house. Moreover, a house means a place to dwell in, and, according to this 
meaning, Heaven and the Church may fitly be called the house or habitation of Jesus 
Christ, inasmuch as He dwells in angels and men, agreeably to his own words, where he 
says, 
If a man love me he will keep my words, and my Father will love him, and we will 
(John 14:23). 
come to him, and make our abode with him 
​

A vineyard is a place where 
he planted a vineyard. 
It is said of this Householder that 
​
vines grow; and by a vine is signified spiritual truth, which is the truth of God's Most 
Holy Word, spiritually understood, according to which sense, Jesus Christ calls Himself 
the True Vine. The vineyard, therefore, here spoken of, denotes the reception of such truth 
by the men of the Church; and, therefore, the men of the Church, or the receivers of such 
truth, are called by the Prophet, The vineyard of the Lord of Hosts, where it is written, 
The vineyard of the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his 
(Isaiah 5:7). for by the house of Israel and the men of Judah are meant the 
pleasant plant; 
​
men of the Church. 

As the vineyard, here spoken of, manifestly denotes a spiritual vineyard, so the hedge, by 

50 

 
​
​
which it is encompassed, must denote a spiritual hedge; the meaning of which may be 
discovered from the use of a natural hedge; the latter, as every one knows, is for defence, 
and also to distinguish a garden, a field, and vineyard, from that which is not a garden, a 
field, and vineyard. In like manner, a spiritual hedge is for the defence of a spiritual 
garden, field, or vineyard, and also to distinguish it from that which is not a spiritual 
garden, field, or vineyard. 

The principles of mind and life which constitute this spiritual hedge are all those 
principles of heavenly love and wisdom which lead man to distinguish clearly in his own 
mind between good and evil, between truth and error, between what is of God, and what 
is not of God; thus, between heaven and hell, between light and darkness, between what 
makes an angel and what makes an infernal. For, in proportion to the clearness in which 
such distinctions are seen, will be the defence and security of the spiritual vineyard: not 
that defence and security arise from distinctions alone, but from the arrangement and 
order to which distinctions lead. For it is an eternal law that there can be no spiritual 
defence and security without arrangement and order; and there can be no arrangement and 
order without distinction of the principles which are to be arranged and brought into 
order; therefore it is necessary for every individual member of the Church, who wishes to 
secure his spiritual vineyard by its proper hedge, to distinguish well, in himself, between 
his internal and external man, also between his will, his understanding, and his operation; 
thus, between good and truth, between charity, faith, and good works, because his 
salvation depends, in a great measure, on the conjunction of these things in himself; and 
they can never be conjoined until they be first clearly seen and distinguished. 

The meaning of the winepress, can only be discovered from the use of a natural 
winepress, which, every one knows, is to separate the juice of the grape from the husk, 
and thus to discover and make manifest the quality of the grapes which are pressed in it. 
For, before the grapes are put into the winepress, it is impossible to know whether they be 
good or bad grapes, sweet or sour, wholesome or unwholesome. In like manner, without 
exploration and examination of man's works, which are the fruits of his vineyard, it is 
impossible for him to know what is their proper quality, whether they be good works or 
evil works - works which will save, or works which will condemn him; and, hence, it is to 
be concluded, that exploration and examination form the true spiritual winepress which 
every wise householder digs in his vineyard. 

discovered. A natural tower, therefore, is an elevated building, to increase its 
is 
​

The spiritual meaning of the tower, which the householder built in his vineyard, like that 
of the winepress, can only be learnt from the use of a natural tower; which use, as every 
one knows, is two-fold, namely, for observation and defence; for observation, in 
discovering the approach of an enemy, and for defence against an enemy when his 
approach 
power of observation; and it is also a strong building, to increase its power of defence. 
Exactly similar is the case of the spiritual tower, with this only difference, that the 
spiritual tower is designed for the observation of spiritual enemies, and for defence 
against them. The spiritual tower, therefore, consists of elevated thought, that is to say, 
thought derived from the truths of God's Most Holy Word, and exalted to conjunction 
with Jesus Christ and His kingdom, through the elevating power of heavenly love and 
charity; and such thought is capable of discovering the approach of spiritual enemies, and, 
at the same time, of defending itself against their assaults. 

The power of observation, arising from a state of elevated thought, and the power of 
defence, in the spiritual idea, are one and the same thing; spiritual defence being, in all 

51 

 
​
cases, the result of elevated thought, as spiritual insecurity is at all times the effect of 
non-elevated thought. And the reason is, because elevated thought, as was observed, is 
thought exalted to conjunction with Jesus Christ, consequently to conjunction with His 
Omnipotence; whereas, non-elevated thought, not being connected with the Divine 
Omnipotence, has no power at all against spiritual adversaries. 

By tenants, to whom the vineyard is said to be let out, are to be understood spiritual 
tenants; and by letting out the vineyard to such tenants is meant, the communicating to 
them the knowledge of the Eternal Truth, to the intent that they may cherish it in their 
hearts and lives until it brings forth its heavenly fruits of love and charity. In the same 
sense, the Lord is said to have placed the first man in the garden of Eden, to dress it, and 
to keep it, because the garden of Eden, like the vineyard, here spoken of, was a figure of 
man's intellectual mind, stored with the rich and holy truths of God's Most Holy Word; 
and to dress and keep this garden, is to preserve those holy truths from decay, that so they 
may bring forth their proper fruits of heavenly love, and life, and peace. 

By the Householder, it has been already seen, is meant, the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ; 
and by his going into a far country is to be understood his apparent absence, whilst man is 
under the first insemination of truth; for, during such insemination, he is necessarily led to 
conceive that God is afar off, nor can he possibly get quit of this sentiment, until the truth 
produces its fruit of love and charity; for it is the spirit of love and charity which alone 
brings God near to man, and removes all idea of distance and separation. 

The time of the fruit drawing near, denotes the period when truth, received in the 
understanding, begins to affect the will and its love; for the fruit, here spoken of, is the 
fruit of the spiritual vineyard, and the fruit of the spiritual vineyard is nothing else but 
love and charity, and the good works to which they give birth. For, in the kingdom of 
grace, as in that of nature, there is a variety of seasons, answering to the four seasons of 
the year, called Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter. Spring is a season distinguished by 
the first insemination and reception of the Eternal Truth in the human understanding. 
Summer is the season when such truth enters and operates on the will, or love, and 
produces in it its own heavenly fruits of righteousness, joy, and peace. Autumn is the 
season when the above fruit is brought to its maturity. And Winter is the season of 
spiritual trial and temptation, in which the plants of heavenly truth take deeper root in the 
faithful and patient mind, and are thus prepared for future seasons of increased 
fruitfulness and use. 

By the servants, sent by the Householder to receive the fruits of the vineyard, are to be 
understood, the teachers of Holy Truth, and thus, the truths which they teach, especially 
respecting God, as the sole Author of all that is good in man, consequently, as the sole 
Proprietor of all the fruits of man's spiritual vineyard. Not that God, for His own sake, 
wishes to be regarded as such a Proprietor, but for the sake of man, because it is for the 
happiness of man that he should acknowledge - and acknowledge gratefully - that all the 
fruits of his vineyard, that is to say, all his love and charity, all his good words and works, 
all his joys and delights, are from God, and, therefore, properly belong to God. 

But it is said, that 
stoned another. 

the tenants took his servants, and beat one, and killed another, and 

By taking the servants is to be understood, that they apprehended the truths of God's Holy 
Word in their understandings; but that this apprehension was confined to the 
understanding, and did not extend its influence to the will, is plain, from its being said 

52 

 
​
which expressions 
beat one, killed another, and stoned another: 
​

afterwards, that they 
denote the different methods of treatment of the Eternal Truth by those who are not 
willing to submit to its guidance and government. For, to beat the servants, denotes the 
perversion of truth by evils of life; to kill the servants, denotes to deprive truth of its life, 
by separating it from the spirit of love and charity; and to stone the servants, denotes to 
falsify truth, by applying it to the confirmation of what is evil and false, 

again sent other servants more than the first, and they did to 

The Householder 
(it is said) 
​
From which words we learn, that the Almighty is not satisfied with 
them likewise. 
​
presenting only one message to His children to require their love and obedience; but, if 
His first message fails, He multiplies His invitations, being desirous, out of His tender 
love, to try every possible method of converting them to Himself, that so He may bless 
them with all the blessings of His Divine Love and Wisdom from Himself. 

By the Householder sending His Son, is meant, God manifest in the flesh; for whether we 
speak of God sending His Son into the world, or of God manifesting Himself in the flesh, 
it is the same thing, denoting that, in the fullness of time the Eternal Jehovah, the Creator 
of all things, descended here on earth, and assumed the Humanity, which He afterwards 
glorified, or made one with Himself, and all this for the purpose of effecting the salvation 
of man, by subduing his spiritual enemies, and by giving him continual access to Himself 
in His Glorified or Divine Humanity. 

The words, 
were intended to teach, that no expectation could 
They will reverence my Son, 
​
be more reasonable, than that the Incarnate God, when He appeared upon earth to instruct, 
to bless, and to save His, otherwise lost, creatures, would have been kindly and 
affectionately received by them; as, on the other hand, no expectation could be more 
unreasonable, than that the Maker of the world, coming down to restore to it His peace 
and love, should be treated with indignity, and, finally, be rejected, crucified, slain, and 
thus cast out of His own vineyard which Himself had planted, and the fruitfulness of 
which He was desirous of promoting. 

It is said, that 
come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance. 

when the tenants saw the Son, they said among themselves, This is the heir; 

By the Son is meant, God manifested in the human nature; and by seeing Him is to be 
understood, an apprehension of this truth in the understanding, for every one may be said 
to see the Son of God who receives, in his intellectual mind, any knowledge concerning 
his manifestation in the flesh. 

themselves, to denote that this was the interior 
in 
​

In the original it is expressed, they said 
thought and purpose of their hearts, to destroy in themselves the revealed truth concerning 
the manifestation of God in the flesh, because they discerned clearly, that if they admitted 
this truth to rule in their minds, they could no longer live to themselves and the world as 
they delighted to do. With the destruction of this truth, respecting the Incarnate God, was 
connected the additional thought and purpose of seizing on his inheritance, because the 
inheritance of God is the heart of man; and to seize on this inheritance, is to remove the 
heart from God, that it may live to itself, without God, as every wicked and unbelieving 
man lives, by persuading himself that his life is his own, and not God's, and, thus, that he 
is his own lord and master, independent of God, and of His righteous laws. 

By taking him, and casting him out of the vineyard, is to be understood, the closing of 
their understandings against the bright light of the Eternal Truth announcing the Incarnate 
God; and by killing him is to be understood, that they voluntarily destroyed in themselves 

53 

 
​
​
​
​
​
the life of heavenly love and charity, which is the essential life of the Incarnate God. 

When, therefore, the Lord of 

Jesus Christ here proposes a question in the following words: 
the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants? 
Observe, that Jesus Christ does not 
​
Himself pronounce sentence upon the wicked tenants, but puts his hearers on the inquiry 
concerning it, of which the reason appears to be this, that the punishment of the wicked 
does not come from Jesus Christ, but from themselves, although the appearance is as if it 
came from Jesus Christ alone, and not at all from themselves. To lead men, therefore, to 
correct this appearance, that so they may discover what is the true source and origin of all 
punishment, Jesus Christ proposes the above significant question. 

Then follows the sentence itself, 
He will miserably destroy those wicked men, and will let 
We learn 
out the vineyard to other tenants, who will render him the fruits in their season. 
​
from these words, that all evil brings upon itself its own destruction; in other words, that 
wicked men destroy themselves, although, to appearance, they are destroyed by God. We 
learn, also, the manner of their destruction, that it is by separating themselves from all 
communication with the Eternal Truth, and, thus, with Heaven, where the Eternal Truth is 
All in All. This separation is signified by the vineyard being let out to other tenants, for 
the vineyard is the knowledge of the Eternal Truth; and to be let out to other tenants 
denotes, therefore, that this knowledge was taken away from those who abused it, to be 
given to those who would profit by it. We learn, therefore, further, from the above words, 
a signal proof of the Divine mercy of the Most High, which leads Him ever to 
communicate to mankind the saving-knowledge of Himself, that so He may rule in their 
hearts and bless them; and when this saving knowledge is rejected by one people, it never 
fails to be immediately imparted to another. Thus, the Divine Providence is continually 
operative to establish a church of pure worshippers here on earth, with a view, at once to 
extend its blessings, to find for itself an habitation, and to provide for the increase and 
support of the angelic kingdom. 

54 

 
​
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE MARRIAGE OF THE KING'S SON. 

Matt. 22:1-15. 

And Jesus answered and spoke to them again by parables, and said, The Kingdom of 
Heaven is like a certain King, who made a marriage for his son, and sent forth, his 
servants to call them that were invited to the wedding: and they would not come. Again he 
sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are invited, Behold, I have prepared my 
dinner: my oxen and my fattened cattle are killed, and all things are ready: come to the 
marriage. But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his 
merchandise: and the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew 
them. But when the King heard thereof, he was angry: and he sent forth his armies, and 
destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. Then says he to his servants, The 
wedding is ready, but they who were invited were not worthy. Go you therefore into the 
highways, and as many as you shall find, invite to the marriage. So those servants went 
out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and 
good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. And when the king came in to see the 
guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment: and he says to him, 
Friend, how do you deserve to be in here not having a wedding garment? And he was 
speechless. Then said the King to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him 
away, and cast him into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For 
many are called, but few are chosen. 

By the Kingdom of Heaven is to be understood, the government and guidance of the 
Divine Love and Wisdom of Jesus Christ; for Heaven is Heaven, by virtue of the 
reception of Divine Love and Wisdom; and it is called a kingdom, from the government 
and guidance of that Love and Wisdom. 

This Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain King who made a marriage for his Son, 
because, by the King, who here made a marriage for his Son, is to be understood, the 
Supreme Divinity, called Jehovah, in the Old Testament, and Father, in the New, uniting 
Himself with the Humanity which He assumed here on earth in the womb of the Virgin 
Mary. This union is called a marriage, and, therefore, the Kingdom of Heaven is like this 
marriage, because the Kingdom of Heaven is formed from an union of similar principles, 
namely, from heavenly Love and heavenly Wisdom, or, what is the same thing, from 
heavenly Good and heavenly Truth. 

By the servants whom the King sent forth are to be understood, the ministers of God, or 
the teachers of His Most Holy Word; and since the things which those, ministers teach are 
the truths of that Word, therefore, by the servants here spoken of, are to be understood 
those truths themselves, which may be considered as ministering, or subservient to the 
heavenly good of Love and Charity, to which they point. 

It is the intent of the revelation of God, which He has been pleased to make to mankind in 
His Holy Word, to invite them to an eternal conjunction with Himself, by the reception of 
His own Love and Wisdom. There is not, therefore, a single truth contained in that 
revelation but what points to such conjunction, and was intended to conduct man to a 
participation of its eternal blessedness. This, therefore, is what is signified by the servants 

55 

 
calling them that were invited to the marriage. 

The expressions rendered in our translation, 
tongue, and, therefore, the passage ought to have been given, to call them that were called 
to the marriage. 

are the same in the original 
invited, 
​

and 
call 
​

Now, the call to the heavenly marriage is actually two-fold; because it is, first, a call of 
the understanding, and, secondly, a call of the will. 

Man is called to the heavenly marriage in his understanding, when he first receives the 
knowledge of the eternal Truth, and is thus made acquainted with God and His kingdom, 
and, at the same time, with that rule of life which conducts to God and His Kingdom. This 
call, however, is not of itself sufficient to introduce him into Heaven and conjunction with 
God, because no knowledge is of itself competent to that purpose. It is necessary, 
therefore, when a sufficient store of knowledge has been implanted, that he be called a 
second time, to bring such knowledge into practice, by forming his life, accordingly; and 
when this is effected, then his will, or love, is united with his understanding, and, by this 
double call, he is introduced to the marriage, because the heavenly marriage is, and 
means, nothing else but such conjunction. 

In the original, instead of 
they were not willing to 
the expression is, 
they would not come, 
​
come, 
to instruct us that it was the abuse of their free will which prevented their coming, 
​
and that, consequently, they wanted the inclination, but not the power, to come, for every 
one is gifted, by his Almighty Creator, with the faculty of choosing for himself either 
good or evil, which was signified by the two trees planted in the garden of Eden. But all 
good is of God and of His kingdom, and all evil is of the Devil and his kingdom. Every 
man, therefore, is gifted with the faculty of choosing God and the things of His kingdom, 
or the Devil and the things of his kingdom; and he chooses either the one or the other, 
according to the determination of his love, or, what is the same thing, of his supreme joy 
or delight. For, if he loves himself only, and the things of this world, in preference to God 
and the things of His kingdom, he then chooses evil in preference to good, and thus 
abuses his free-will. But if he loves God and the things of His kingdom, in preference to 
himself and the things of this world, he then chooses good instead of evil, and, in so 
doing, he applies his free-will according to the happy purposes for which it was given him 
by his merciful Creator. 

By the other servants, whom the King sent forth, are to be understood, other applications 
of the Divine Truth, or the Divine Truth expressed in another form. Thus, for instance, it 
is the same Divine Truth which is expressed in the writings of Moses, and in the writings 
of the Prophets; but the form of expression is varied in each, and it is this variety of 
expression, and not of the truth itself, which is alluded to in this account of the other 
servants here said to be sent forth by the heavenly King. 

The term behold, is a term applied to excite attention to the subject which follows, in the 
present case, therefore, to the dinner which was prepared, to instruct us that this dinner is 
a subject worthy all attention, and better deserving it than any other, because it is a subject 
to which the attention called by God Himself, and God never calls man to attend to 
anything but what is most worthy of his attention. 

The term dinner is used to express all consociation of Love and Charity, because all 
feasts, whether they were dinners or suppers, were originally ordained for the purpose of 
cherishing such consociation. By the dinner, therefore, being prepared, is to be 
understood, that the Almighty had provided every thing necessary for the establishment of 

56 

 
​
​
​
​
such consociation of Love and Charity between angels in heaven and men upon earth. 
Thus, by this part of the invitation, all mankind are called to enter into consociation of 
Love and Charity with the angelic kingdom, and in so doing, to eat of their bread, and 
drink of their cup, according as it is written, 
(Psalm 78:25). 
bread to the full 
​

Man did eat angels food, and he gave them 

The oxen and fattened cattle denote different kinds and degrees of heavenly good, which 
constitute the King's dinner, and in this view, the various animals appointed for sacrifice, 
under the old law, are to be considered as representative of some heavenly principles of 
life which were required to be acknowledged as coming from God, and to be offered up to 
God. In the present case, therefore, oxen and fattened cattle are applied to denote all those 
heavenly affections, both natural and spiritual, which are implanted in man by his 
Heavenly Father, and which alone conjoin God with man and man with God. 

By all things are meant, all things on the part of God 
all things are ready. 
​

It is written, 
necessary for man's regeneration, whether they be internal or external; and by their being 
ready is to be understood, that they are always at hand with man, and waiting to be 
formed into his life, whenever he is disposed, in his free will, to admit them. 

implies a most gracious call of the divine mercy and 
come to the marriage, 
​

The invitation, 
loving-kindness of the Most High to every individual of the human race, pressing and 
inviting him to an eternal conjunction of life, of blessing, and of protection, with Himself 
and His kingdom. It implies, further, a call to every man to conjoin in his own heart and 
life the eternal principles of heavenly Love and Wisdom, or, what is the same thing, of 
Charity and Faith, because the former conjunction of man with his God depends entirely 
upon the accomplishment of this latter conjunction of the above heavenly principles in his 
own mind and life. 

To make light of a thing, is to account it of little value, and to be but little affected by it; 
and, therefore, to make light of the invitation to come to the marriage, implies, that the 
persons invited thought the heavenly marriage a thing of little value, and were but little 
affected by it. For such is the case with the impenitent, the thoughtless, and unconverted. 
Even Heaven itself appears in their eyes as a trifling and insignificant possession, whilst 
the things of this world seem to be the only grand objects which deserve their attention. 
Thus, they mistake entirely the nature of true greatness; calling that great which in itself is 
little, and that little which in itself is great; and, by a terrible perversion of their faculties, 
they invert all order, setting themselves above God, earth above heaven, temporal things 
above eternal, and death above life. 

be understood, a separation of themselves from that eternal 
to 
​

My going away is 
conjunction with God and Heaven which was proffered to their acceptance. And this was 
a natural and necessary consequence of their making light of it, since no man was ever 
known to draw near with his affections to any object of which he thinks vilely and 
contemptibly. Man will, of course, separate himself from Heaven in the degree that his 
affections are not interested in its important realities; nor will he ever draw near, as he 
ought, to the blessed kingdom, except in proportion as his understanding is enlightened, 
and his will purified, to see and to feel that the things of that kingdom merit his regard and 
esteem infinitely above all other things whatsoever. 

In the sense of the letter, one going to his field, and another to his merchandise, expresses 
the preference which men usually give to worldly concerns and occupations above the 
concerns and occupations of eternal life; but, in the spiritual sense it means, that they 

57 

 
​
​
​
​
prefer natural good to spiritual good, and natural truth to spiritual truth; for, in a spiritual 
sense, a man's field (or, as the original has it, his 
denotes his will, or love; and 
own field) 
​
merchandise denotes his understanding, or truth. 

The next words describe the methods by which wicked and unbelieving men destroy, in 
themselves, the heavenly truths of God's most Holy Word; for, by the servants here 
spoken of, as was shown above, are meant those truths which are destroyed in men's 
minds, principally by two methods; first, by vilifying them, or making them appear 
contemptible in their understandings; and, secondly, by depriving them of the life of love 
and charity in their wills. The first method is expressed by entreating them spitefully, and 
the second, by slaying them. 

Anger and wrath are frequently 
when the King heard thereof he was angry. 
​

It is said, that 
attributed to God, in the Sacred Scriptures, not that it is to be supposed that any such 
qualities, or properties, exist in the Divine Being, who, in Himself, is, and ever must be, 
the purest and most essential mercy, love, goodness, and compassion. But the contrary 
qualities of wrath, anger, and vengeance, are attributed to Him in the same way that 
repentance is attributed to Him, though it is plain that God never repents, as He Himself 
also declares. The reason, then, why God is said to be angry and wrathful, as well as to 
repent, is, because the Sacred Scriptures are written according to appearances, and, if they 
were not so written, they could not have been adapted to the apprehension of the natural 
man. The appearance, therefore, is, that God is angry and wrathful with the wicked, and 
that He also repents of His purposes, but the real truth is, that He never repents, neither is 
He ever angry or wrathful, and that if He appears so, it is owing to the wickedness of man, 
who always supposes that God is angry with him, and ready to punish his wicked deeds. 
Every man, therefore, in this respect, makes his own God, according to the idea which he 
forms of God; and, consequently, a wicked man sees nothing, and can see nothing, but a 
God of anger and wrath, whilst a good man sees nothing, and can see nothing, but a God 
of mercy and love. It is accordingly written, 
and with the perverse you will show yourself perverse.  

with the pure you will show yourself pure, 

The armies of the Lord, or, as they are sometimes called, His host, denote the angelic 
host, when applied in a good sense, as executing the purposes of salvation; but when 
applied in a contrary sense, as in the present case, for the purpose of destruction, they 
denote the powers of darkness; in which sense it is written, in another place, concerning 
the rebellious Israelites, that the Lord sent evil angels among them. Not that it is to be 
supposed that the merciful Lord sends evil, or evil angels, among any people, but that the 
wicked and impenitent, by their wickedness and impenitence, plunge themselves into 
wretched association with those spirits of darkness. 

because they kill and murder in themselves the 
murderers, 
​

All wicked people are called 
life of heavenly Love and Charity, which is the life of God and of His kingdom; and God 
is said to destroy such murderers, when, in reality, they destroy themselves, by separating 
themselves from the mercy, the blessing and protection of Heaven, for whatsoever is so 
separated must of necessity be destroyed, since spiritual destruction is but another term to 
express alienation from God, as spiritual salvation is but another term to express 
conjunction with God in His own life of heavenly love and wisdom. 

City is used in a spiritual sense, like all other expressions in the parable, and, according to 
that sense, denotes the interior principles and persuasions which occupy the minds of 
men, and in which they dwell. When it is said, therefore, that the King 
the word city is used to denote the principles and persuasions of the wicked, which are 

burnt up their city, 

58 

 
​
​
​
​
​
said to be burned up, when they are consumed and perish by the cravings which give them 
birth. Mention is accordingly made, in the Sacred Scriptures, of the city of destruction, 
and also of the city of the Lord of Hosts; the former denoting the principles and 
persuasions in which the ungodly dwell, as to their spirits; and the latter, denoting the 
principles and persuasions in which the righteous dwell, as to their spirits. 

But it is said, 
Man is 
the wedding is ready, but they who were invited were not worthy. 
​
said to be worthy when he complies freely and voluntarily with the counsels of the Eternal 
Truth; in which case he exalts the Eternal Truth above everything belonging to himself, 
and thus ascribes to the God of Truth all merit, and, consequently, all worth. Man, 
therefore, is called worthy, in proportion as he takes no worth to himself, but humbly and 
gratefully acknowledges that no one is worthy but Him of whom it is written, 
the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and 
honour, and glory, and blessing 
(Rev. 5:12). On the other hand, man is said to be not 
​
worthy, when he is unwilling to admit into his mind that heavenly wisdom which would 
teach him that all worthiness, properly so called, belongs to God, and that man is only so 
far worthy as he willingly makes this acknowledgement. 

Worthy is 

It is afterwards written, that the King sent his servants into the highways, to invite to the 
marriage as many as they should find. In the original language, the term which is here 
rendered highways, is expressed by a word which more properly denotes crossways. It is 
impossible, however, to discover what is meant by crossways, unless it be first known 
what is spiritually understood by a way. Now, a spiritual way, is the way, or direction, of 
every one's will and understanding, in regard to the things of God and another world: and 
the way of every one's will and understanding is the way or direction of his supreme love, 
because every one follows, and must, of necessity, follow, wherever his supreme love 
leads him. According to this view of spiritual ways, they will be found to be as various 
and as numerous as natural ways, and, therefore they may be distinguished, and are 
distinguished, in the Sacred Scriptures, into highways, bye ways, and what are here called 
crossways. Hence, then, may be seen what is spiritually meant by the crossways 
mentioned in the parable, and that they relate to the states of the minds of those who are 
walking in ignorance of genuine truth, and who thus do not proceed in a straight path to 
the kingdom of Heaven. For genuine truth is the highway, and the only highway, to 
Heaven and eternal blessedness, and, consequently, they who are not in the light of 
genuine truth do not walk in a highway, but in a crossway. The King's command, 
therefore, to his servants, to go into the crossways, relates to the calling of the Gentiles to 
the knowledge of the true God, and thus, into the way of genuine truth, for the Gentiles, 
being in ignorance, were not walking in the highway to the heavenly kingdom, and, 
consequently, could not come to the marriage until they were better instructed. 

those servants went into the highways, and gathered together all as 

It is next said, that 
many as they found, both bad and good, and the wedding was furnished with guests. 
It is 
​
agreeable to the order of the Divine Providence, that all mankind should be instructed in 
the knowledge of God and the things of His kingdom, since, without instruction, no one 
can be a subject either of happiness or of misery, properly so called; neither can any one, 
without instruction, be denominated either good or bad: for what constitutes a good man, 
is his willingness to obey instructions, by forming his life according to it; and what 
constitutes a bad man, is his unwillingness to obey instruction, and to suffer it to operate 
upon his life. The difference, therefore, between a good man and a bad man, is, not that 
the one receives instruction and the other rejects it, but that the one attains to the heavenly 

59 

 
​
​
​
good of love and charity, to which instruction points, whilst the other does not attain it: 
the one, therefore, removes from his heart and life all the evils which instruction makes 
manifest; whilst the other, notwithstanding instruction, still remains the slave of his 
corruptions; thus the one admits the truth of instruction into the interiors of his heart and 
life, where it begets and forms its own image and likeness of heavenly wisdom and purity, 
whilst the other suffers instruction to enter no further than his memory, where it continues 
as in an outer court, and never gains admission into the inmost recesses of the heart. 

is to be understood, the Almighty Lord and 
came in to see the guests, 
By the King, who 
​
Sovereign of the Universe, whose name is Jesus Christ; and this heavenly King is said to 
come in when He comes to His Church, whether in general, or in particular, by the influx, 
or influence, of His Holy Spirit. For the King of Heaven cannot come into His Church, in 
general, or to any member of His Church, in particular, in any other way than this. But in 
this way of influx, or influence, He may be said to be always coming in for inspection, for 
judgement, and for purification. 

By a garment, according to the spiritual idea, is meant, that which invests, or clothes, a 
man's spirit; and every man's spirit is clothed according to the persuasions which he 
believes to be true. For every man's spirit is his ruling love, and love always invests, or 
clothes, itself with persuasions which are in agreement with itself- with the persuasions of 
truth, therefore, if the love be in agreement with truth, but with the persuasions of error, if 
it be not in agreement with truth. It is on this account that, when the Lord was 
transfigured, He was seen in shining garments, as were also the angels who appeared at 
His sepulchre; because shining garments denote the splendour and brightness of divine 
and heavenly truth, investing divine and heavenly good. 

This being the meaning of a spiritual garment, we may understand a wedding-garment to 
denote, the persuasion of truth in conjunction with the heavenly love and charity, in which 
it originates, thus, in conjunction with Jesus Christ, who is the only source and fountain of 
all heavenly love and charity. When, therefore, it is said, that the man 
had not on a 
it is to denote that his persuasions were not grounded in love and 
wedding-garment, 
​
charity, and, consequently, were not in conjunction with those heavenly principles. And 
this is the unhappy case with all those who imbibe, with their understandings, the 
doctrines of heavenly truth but do not apply those doctrines to the reformation of their 
lives, by rejecting those evils which the truth makes manifest, and by cherishing those 
goods of heaven and eternal life to which it points and conducts. Whosoever, then, 
maintains that he may be saved by faith alone, without charity and good works, and that 
he may thus be admitted into Heaven after death, provided that, in the last hour of his life, 
he believes in the atoning blood and merit of the Redeemer, is seen by the all-piercing eye 
of the Eternal King, as a man that has not on a wedding-garment. In like manner, whoever 
separates religion from the common duties and engagements of life, by insisting that 
religion has nothing to do with those duties and engagements, and that a man may live as 
he pleases, provided he is only constant and regular in his public and private devotions, he 
also ranks amongst those deluded ones who come to the wedding without having on a 
wedding-garment. 

In the original tongue, the title is not so honourable as that expressed by the word friend, 
addressed to the man which had not on a wedding-garment, but one is used which, more 
properly, signifies companion. 

Every one knows the distinction, in a natural sense, between those two terms, because 
every one knows that, in a natural sense, a companion means one with whom we 

60 

 
​
​
occasionally associate, but whom we do not admit to any great degree of intimacy, so as 
to take him to our bosoms, and entrust him with our secrets; whereas, a friend means one 
with whom we not only associate occasionally, but who is so connected with us in the 
bonds of love and affection, that we find our highest delight in his society, and are never 
so happy as in the interchange of mutual regard, confidence and attachment. Exactly 
similar is the distinction, in a spiritual sense, because, according to this sense, a spiritual 
companion, in respect to God, is one who, by reading the Word of God, is admitted to 
some degree of acquaintance with God, by receiving the light of the knowledge of God in 
his understanding, but whereas he does not receive, at the same time, the love of God in 
his will, nor suffers it to operate in his life, he never attains to any higher, or nearer, 
intimacy with his Heavenly Father. A spiritual friend, on the other hand, is one who, with 
respect to God, not only admits into his understanding the knowledge of God and of His 
law, but applying that knowledge to the reformation of his life, cherishes devoutly in his 
heart the love of God and of his neighbour, and thus attains to the high and unspeakable 
honour of being admitted to the closest intimacy and conjunction with the Father of his 
being, in all those virtues and graces of love, confidence, and regard, which constitute the 
endearing relationship of friend. 

appears 
How do you deserve to be in here, not having a wedding-garment? 
The question, 
​
intended to put the man upon a course of self-examination, respecting the motives of his 
conduct in rejecting the life of charity, and insisting on the sufficiency of faith alone to 
introduce him into the kingdom of Heaven. It was intended, further, that, by such 
examination, he should be led to the discovery, that nothing can be so irrational and 
contrary to the express declarations of the Word of God, as to imagine that man can be 
saved by a mere act of speculative faith, separate from repentance and the good works 
which flow from charity and the love of God. And, lastly, it was intended to lead all 
mankind to reject the idea of solitary faith, and to admit, in its place, the evangelical 
persuasion, that charity, faith, and good works, are, unitedly, necessary to secure man's 
salvation, and that to separate any one of these essentials from the other, is to destroy all, 
and thus to destroy the church, both generally and individually. 

By being speechless is meant, in the letter, that the man had nothing to answer; but in the 
spirit, or spiritual sense, is meant, that no just reason could be assigned for his acting in a 
manner so altogether unreasonable and opposite to the whole tenor of the counsels of the 
Eternal. For all speech is merely an expression of the thoughts; and, therefore, where there 
is no speech, as in the present case, it denotes that there is no thought, that is to say, no 
just thought. Thus, it denotes, that the separation of charity from faith, and of faith from 
charity, is the destruction of all just thought, of all sound reason, of all true wisdom, and 
of all evangelical truth and evangelical religion. 

is implied, the spiritual imprisonment into 
bind him, hand and foot, 
By the injunction, 
​
which all men cast themselves who do not join to their knowledge, obedience, or a life 
according to knowledge. 

This imprisonment of all the faculties of the mind is both internal and external; the 
former, signified by binding the hand, and the latter, by binding the foot. 

It consists in the deprivation of the spiritual powers with which all men are, by birth, 
invested, namely, the powers of looking upwards towards God and Heaven - of opening 
thus, and forming the internal, spiritual man - of admitting, through this the divine 
influences into the external, or natural, man - and of thus attaining eternal conjunction 
with the Almighty, through the free and voluntary admission of His love, wisdom, and 

61 

 
​
​
operation, into every part and principle, both of mind and body. 

By the second injunction, take him away, is implied, the separation from the heavenly 
marriage, or from Heaven itself, of all those who are so unwise as not to attain to that 
marriage, by the conjunction of charity and faith, or of love and wisdom, in their own 
minds and lives. It appears, in this case, as in the former of spiritual imprisonment, that 
the effect is produced by the sentence of the Almighty, when, nevertheless, it is the 
necessary result of carelessness on the part of man. For it is well to be noted, that no one 
can attain conjunction with the Almighty, but by the conjunction of charity and faith in 
his own mind and life. When charity and faith, therefore, are not thus conjoined, the man, 
voluntarily, and of his own accord, separates himself from the kingdom of light and love, 
because there are no principles in himself congenial with that kingdom and its joys. It is 
not, therefore, in the power of the Almighty Himself, to introduce any one into Heaven, 
unless heavenly love and heavenly wisdom be previously combined in his affections and 
thoughts, for this would be to act contrary to His own order, that is to say, contrary to 
Himself, which is a thing impossible. 

The sentence, 
like the foregoing, is a consequence resulting 
cast him into outer darkness, 
​
from the state of man's mind, rather than from the judgement, or condemnation, of the 
Almighty. For when a man admits into his understanding the light of heavenly truth, and 
neglects to form his life accordingly, he then converts the light into darkness, which, 
being more dense and grievous than the darkness of mere ignorance, is, on that account, 
called outer, or extreme, darkness, agreeably to that declaration of Jesus Christ, where He 
says, 
By outer darkness, 
the light that is in you be darkness, how great is that darkness. 
​
is, therefore, here to be understood, the darkness into which the men of the church cast 
themselves, who enjoy and admit the light of revelation, but who yet are not willing to 
submit their minds and lives entirely to its heavenly guidance. 

If
​

The two terms, 
denote the extreme opposition to the 
weeping and gnashing of teeth, 
​
principles of heavenly love and wisdom in all those who cast themselves into outer 
darkness; weeping being an act of the body, expressive of opposition to heavenly love; 
and gnashing of teeth being an act of the body, expressive of opposition to heavenly 
wisdom, or truth. The reason why weeping denotes opposition to heavenly love, is, 
because weeping is opposed to heavenly joy, and all heavenly joy is the effect of heavenly 
love. They, therefore, who cast themselves into outer darkness, must, of necessity, be 
deprived of heavenly joy, and, of course, oppose the principle from which it proceeds. 
And the reason why gnashing of teeth denotes opposition to heavenly truth, is, because, in 
the Sacred Scriptures, frequent mention is made of gnashing of teeth, and, in all cases, it 
is applied to express a rooted hatred of, and opposition to, the principles of heavenly 
wisdom and truth in which sense it is applied, Acts 7:54, Ps. 112:10, Ps. 35:16, Sam. 2:16, 
Job 16:9, and: Mark 9:18. It is added, in conclusion of the parable, 
few are chosen. 

many are called, but 

The called are all they who receive an invitation to the heavenly marriage, by hearing and 
reading the Word of God, which is, throughout, an invitation to that marriage. But the 
chosen are they, who not only hear and read the Word of God, like the called, and thus 
receive an invitation to the marriage, but who, likewise, accept the invitation, by willing, 
thinking, and doing, such things as the Word of God enjoins. The called, therefore, are 
they who receive the instruction of wisdom; but the chosen are they who obey that 
instruction. The called, again, are they who have the understanding of truth; but the 
chosen are they who unite to that understanding the love of heavenly good. In short, the 

62 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
called are they who have attained to some communication with the light of Heaven in 
their intellectual part; but the chosen are they who have attained conjunction with the life 
of Heaven in their voluntary, or will, part. These latter, therefore, are termed the elect, or 
chosen, because God always chooses those who love Him, and not those who merely 
know Him; thus, He chooses those who delight in doing His will, but not those who only 
understand what His will requires. 

We learn, in general, from this parable, that it is the will of the Most High to conjoin 
Himself, by means of His holy love and wisdom, with all mankind, and that, accordingly, 
He invites and presses all mankind to come and be partakers of this heavenly marriage, or 
conjunction. We learn, further, that this divine invitation, which God sends to all His 
creatures, by and through His Holy Word, is treated differently by men, according to their 
several passions, prejudices, and ways of life; some making light of it, and others treating 
it with contempt, neglect, and abhorrence. We learn, still further, that God, by His divine 
inspection, is ever noting the manner in which His Holy Word is treated by mankind, and 
how far they are careful to unite love and wisdom, or charity and faith, together in their 
minds and lives. And, lastly, we learn, that no man can be admitted to the heavenly 
marriage, or, what is the same thing, to the kingdom of Heaven, only so far as the above 
principles are conjoined in him; since, if they be separated, he then casts himself into the 
imprisonment of his best faculties, - separates himself from all communion with his 
Heavenly Father, - and plunges into that terrible darkness, where he hates and opposes the 
influence of that heavenly love and heavenly wisdom which would, otherwise have 
conducted him to salvation and eternal life. Let us, therefore, resolve, now on, to take 
heed that we never separate in ourselves the principles of love and wisdom, charity and 
faith; but, that, combining those principles in our minds and lives, and suffering them to 
have their full operation in our conduct, we may not only rank under those who are called, 
but also be admitted to the high honour of those who are chosen, and thus enter into an 
eternal conjunction of life and love with our Heavenly Father, which is the true marriage 
and marriage-feast to which He has been pleased, in His mercy, to invite us. 

63 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE FIG TREE. 

Matt. 24:32-34. 

learn a parable of the fig tree; when his branch is yet tender, and puts forth leaves, 
Now
​
​
you know that summer is near; so likewise you, when you shall see all these things, know 
that it is near, even at the doors. Verily I say to you, this generation shall not pass till all 
these things be fulfilled. 

By learning a parable from the fig tree is meant, to learn instruction from what is signified 
by a fig tree, with its branches and leaves, which are afterwards mentioned; and, therefore, 
before this instruction can be learned, it will be necessary to consider what is signified 
and represented by a fig tree, with its branches and leaves. 

A fig tree, whenever it is spoken of in the Holy Word, always signifies and represents the 
good of the natural principle of man's life, as a vine signifies and represents the good of 
his spiritual principle. By the good of the natural principle, is not meant the good into 
which man is born, or which he derives from his parents, but the good which is spiritual 
as to origin, and into which no one is born, but is introduced of the Lord by the 
knowledges of good and of truth; wherefore, before man is in this good, namely, in 
spiritual good, he is not a man of the church, however he appears to be so from natural 
good. If, then, the fig tree signifies and represents such natural good, its branches will 
denote the affections of that good, because affection buds forth from good, as a branch 
from its trunk; and, for the same reason, its leaves will denote the truths of that good, 
because truths are to the mind of man what leaves are to a tree. 

The term rendered tender in our translation is expressed, in the original, by a word which 
means soft; and the term soft is applied to denote what is inmost and innocent, and thus in 
the present case, is intended to express the inmost principle of innocence from the Lord 
which is in the affection of natural good; thus by its putting forth leaves, is further 
signified its fruitfulness in the truths of innocence, or in truths of a celestial origin. 

By summer, according to the spiritual idea, derived from the doctrine of correspondence 
between things spiritual and things natural, is to be understood, the conjunction of good 
and of truth in the Church here on earth; since, as natural heat and light are conjoined in 
the natural summer, in like manner spiritual heat and light, which are goodness and truth 
in the minds of men, are conjoined in the spiritual summer. By summer, therefore, is here 
spiritually meant the commencement of a new Church; and by its being near is, further, to 
be understood, the establishment of this Church whenever the branch of the fig tree 
becomes tender, and puts forth leaves; in other words, whenever the affection of natural 
good is influenced by innocence, and productive of truths from a celestial origin. 

The import of the next words can only be known from considering what is meant by the 
things spoken of, which they were to see; and this cannot be known but by reference to 
the former part of the chapter, in which an affecting account is given by Jesus Christ, of 
the successive corruptions of the Christian Church, under its several fattened cattle away 
from evangelical purity and truth. These fattened cattle away may be, described in the 
following summary, containing prediction concerning the devastation of the Church, and, 

64 

 
 
at length, concerning the establishment of a new Church in this order: 

1. That they began not to know what was good and true, but disputed on the subject.  
2. That they despised good and truth.  
3. That in heart they did not acknowledge those principles.  
4. That they profaned them.  
5. And whereas the truth of faith and the good of charity were yet about to remain 

with some who were called the elect; the state of faith on the occasion is 
described.  

6. And next the state of charity.  
7. And, lastly, the beginning of a new Church is treated of.  

These, therefore, are the things which they were to see, and when they saw them, they 
were to know that it was near, even at the doors; in other words, that then would be the 
consummation of the Church, that is, the last judgement, and the coming of the Lord; 
consequently, that then the old Church would be rejected and a new one established. It is 
said, at the doors, because the good of the natural principle and its truths are the first 
things which are insinuated into man, when he is regenerated, and is made a church. It 
accordingly follows, 
things be fulfilled, Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away 
(verses 34, 35), to denote, first, that the Jewish nation shall not be extirpated as other 
nations; and, secondly, that the internals and externals of the former Church, here 
signified by heaven and earth, shall perish, but that the Word of the Lord shall remain. 

Verily, I say to you, this generation shall not pass away till all these 

We learn, from this parable, to adore again the wisdom of our God and Saviour, as 
peculiarly manifested by His usual mode of expressing His own divine ideas by natural 
images, or by the representation of natural things. Thus, in the present instance, we are 
instructed, that under the natural figure of a fig tree, its branches, and leaves, He 
describes, in the most appropriate language, the commencement of a glorious new 
Church, which was to succeed on the declension of the former Church from its original 
purity; and, further, under the natural figure of summer, He describes the conjunction of 
goodness and truth, or of spiritual heat and spiritual light, in that Church, by virtue of 
which it was to be fruitful in all heavenly graces and virtues, and thus to have living 
conjunction with its Heavenly Father. We are instructed, yet further, to attend carefully to 
the several predictions uttered in the verses preceding this parable, until we discover from 
them the several states of the declension of the first Christian Church from its original 
purity; and we are, besides, consoled with the prospect and the certainty of that glorious 
new Church which is to succeed it, and which may convince us, that what is commonly 
called the last judgement, and the coming of the Lord, is not for the purpose of destroying 
the earth, but of preserving it, by imparting to mankind the pure and heavenly doctrines of 
the eternal truth, which were prefigured in the Revelation by the descent of the new 
Jerusalem. Thus may we humbly hope, that, through the mercy of God, the branch of the 
fig tree with us may become tender, and put forth leaves, whereby we may be convinced, 
to our unutterable joy, that the summer of the divine benediction of the Most High is near 
at hand, consisting in the conjunction of His most blessed love and wisdom, and that thus, 
though heaven and earth pass away, His word shall not pass away. Amen. 

65 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE TEN VIRGINS. 

Matt. 25:1-13. 

Then shall the Kingdom of Heaven be like ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went 
forth to meet the Bridegroom, And five of them were wise, and five were foolish. They that 
were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: but the wise took oil in their 
vessels with their lamps. While the Bridegroom was a long time in coming they all 
slumbered and slept. And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the Bridegroom 
comes; go out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. And the 
foolish said to the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. But the wise 
answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go rather to them 
that sell, and buy for yourselves. And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and 
they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut. Afterward 
came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, 
Verily, I say to you, I know you not. Watch, therefore, for you know neither the day nor 
the hour wherein the Son of man comes. 

The Kingdom of Heaven is compared to ten virgins, because by the Kingdom of Heaven 
is to be understood, the government of the divine love and wisdom; and by the ten virgins 
are denoted, all those of the Church to whom this government is presented for salvation 
and eternal happiness. 

Lumps, when the term is used in the Sacred Scriptures, always denote the truths of God's 
Most Holy Word, in which sense it is written, 
119:105). 

(Ps. 
Your word is a lamp to my feet 
​

By the Bridegroom is meant the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, or the incarnate God, who 
is called a bridegroom in regard to His bride the Church, according to which idea He 
speaks of Himself when He says to His disciples, 
Can the children of the bride-chamber 
mourn when the Bridegroom is with them? but the days will come when the Bridegroom 
shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast 
(Matt. 9:15, Mark 2:19, Luke 5:34). By 
​
the virgins going forth, therefore, to meet the Bridegroom, is to be understood, their 
preparation to enter into the presence of Jesus Christ, and into a state of communication 
and conjunction with Him. 

They that were foolish took their 

and this is explained 
five of these virgins were wise, and five were foolish, 
​

It is said, that 
in the following verses of the parable, where it is written, 
By 
lamps, and took no oil in them; but the wine took oil in their vessels with their lamps. 
​
taking their lamps and taking no oil in them, is signified, that they received the truths of 
God's Most Holy Word in their understandings, which is meant by taking their lamps; but 
they did not admit into their wills the good of heavenly love and charity, which is meant 
by oil, to which good the truths of God's Word were designed to conduct them. And this is 
the eternal distinction between folly and wisdom, because nothing is true wisdom but a 
life according to the knowledge of the truth, and nothing is so great a proof of human 
folly as to receive knowledge and not to apply it to the purposes of a good life for which it 
was given. Man, therefore, is not wise, merely because he knows what is true and good, 
but he becomes wise by forming his life accordingly; neither can he properly be called 

66 

 
​
​
​
​
foolish, merely because he is ignorant of truth and knowledge, but he becomes foolish in 
the degree in which he neglects to improve and amend his life according to the knowledge 
of truth which he has received. 

It may be proved that oil signifies the good of love and charity, from the continual 
application of the term, both in the Old and New Testament, since, wherever it is used, it 
is intended to express some communication with the Almighty in the heavenly principle 
of his own mercy and love. Thus it is written in the book of Psalms, 
You anoint my head 
(23:5), where by oil is manifestly meant spiritual oil, because it is said that God 
with oil, 
​
anoints with it, and, consequently, it can mean nothing but the communication of the 
divine mercy and love. It was for the same reason that oil was commanded to be so 
frequently used in the Jewish sacrifices, to denote that no sacrifice can be acceptable to 
the Deity but what proceeds from His own spirit of pure love, compassion, and mercy. 

It is written, that 
slept. 

while the Bridegroom was a long time in coming, they all slumbered and 

By the Bridegroom tarrying, we are to understand the delay in His appearing and full 
manifestation, until His children, or Church, are duly prepared for His reception. This 
delay is grounded in the wisdom of His divine order and providence, which requires that 
mankind should be tried and exercised in various ways, before they can be admitted to the 
high honour and happiness of eternal conjunction with their Divine Lord. For man, being 
naturally born in evil, cannot hope to be a partaker of the heavenly blessings to which he 
is invited, until his natural evils be in some degree removed; and this removal cannot be 
effected but by a variety of trials, and troubles, and the apparent absence of the heavenly 
Bridegroom: this apparent absence, therefore, in the process of regeneration, is what is 
here to be understood by the Bridegroom tarrying. 

We find frequent mention made of slumbering and sleeping in the Sacred Scriptures; and 
by slumbering is always meant a natural state of the understanding in regard to the 
apprehension of truth; and by sleeping is meant a natural state of the will in regard to the 
perception of good. This, therefore, is what is here meant by slumbering and sleeping, to 
denote that both the wise and foolish virgins cherished doubts in their understandings 
respecting the bridegroom's coming, and were likewise sluggish in their affections on the 
same subject. This is a consequence of not admitting, in its fullness, the operation of 
spiritual good and spiritual truth from the Word of God, to raise them out of a natural 
state of thought and will. For every man is said, spiritually, to slumber and sleep, so long 
as he is under the dominion of mere natural thought and affection; as, on the other hand, 
he is said, spiritually, to awake, whenever he suffers the truth of God's Holy Word to raise 
him out of, and above, such a natural state of affection and thought. 

By midnight, in the spiritual sense of the word, is understood the last state of the Church, 
when there is no longer in it any light of heavenly truth, because there is no love of 
heavenly good. Whenever this is the case, then presently comes morning, which is here 
signified by Bridegroom coming, because by the Bridegroom is understood the Lord, who 
is said to come when He reveals to His Church new truths, by opening the internal sense 
of His Holy Word. In the Sacred Scriptures, therefore, the coming of the Lord is 
frequently called morning. 

signifies, as was said above, an exhortation to 
Go you forth to meet Him, 
The command, 
​
prepare for the reception of His holy love and wisdom, by which reception alone man is 
admitted to the high honour and happiness of becoming a pure bride and wife of the 

67 

 
​
​
​
heavenly Bridegroom and Husband. 

Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps, 
by which words is meant, that all 
​
began to prepare themselves; for they who are without charity, believe they shall be 
accepted alike with those who have charity, since they suppose that faith alone is saving, 
not aware that there is no faith where there is no charity. 

And the foolish said to the wise, Give us of your oil, for our lamps are gone out. 
Hence, it 
​
appears, they were willing that charity should be communicated to their empty 
knowledge, or to their void faith, from others; but this is a thing-impossible, since the law, 
respecting- the possession of charity, requires that every man shall himself receive it from 
God, and this in the degree in which he removes from his heart and life the affections 
which are contrary to charity. This appears from the answer of the wise virgins on the 
occasion, who said, 
Not so, lest there be not sufficient for us and for you: go rather to 
them that sell, and buy for yourselves; 
by which words we are taught, that no one can be 
​
saved by the virtues of another, only so far as he endeavours to make those virtues his 
own, by incorporating them into his life through repentance and faith in the Incarnate 
God. 

It is afterwards written, that 
while they went to buy, the Bridegroom came, and they that 
were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut, 
by which words is 
​
signified and expressed, that the application of the foolish virgins was then preposterous 
and useless, because it was an application grounded in their fears rather than in the 
conviction of their own minds and consciences. For no man was ever known to be 
reformed from fear, which operates only on the external man, and not at all on the 
internal, to turn it towards the love of God and Heaven. 

are meant, they who had joined charity to their faith, or the good 
they that were ready 
By 
​
of life to their knowledges; and by their entering in with the bridegroom into the marriage, 
is signified, that they were admitted into Heaven, because Heaven is Heaven from the 
conjunction of charity and faith, or, what is the same thing, from the conjunction of 
heavenly knowledge with the life of knowledge, on which account Heaven is compared to 
a marriage, and really is a marriage. 

The door being shut, on this occasion, denotes that none else could enter but the wise 
virgins, that is to say, they who were in faith grounded in charity, or whose knowledge 
was united with the life of knowledge. For such is the case in regard to Heaven, that none 
are admitted there but such as are ready, or prepared, and all preparation for Heaven 
implies the conjunction of heavenly principles, such as love and wisdom, charity and 
faith, goodness and truth, speculation and practice, piety and the life of piety; therefore, 
where there is no such conjunction, there can be no admission into Heaven, in which case 
the door is said to be shut; not that the Lord shuts it, but that men shut it against 
themselves by their impenitence, unbelief, and want of application for the conjunction of 
the above heavenly principles. 

afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. 

But it is said, that 
Thus they flattered themselves with the groundless hope of being admitted into Heaven by 
the divine mercy alone, though they were void of that charity, in and by which the divine 
mercy can alone operate. They trusted to be saved by faith alone, from which they 
supplicated the Divine Being, not aware that the supplication of faith alone, separate from 
the life of faith, which is charity and good works, is not heard by the Almighty, and does 
not penetrate into Heaven, because God and Heaven are moved by no prayers but those of 

68 

 
​
​
​
​
the penitent, who are desirous of uniting in themselves all the principles of Godlike and 
heavenly life. 

Jesus 
he answered and said, Verily I say to you, I know you not. 
​

(John 10:14), because His 
I know my sheep, and am known of mine 
​

We read, further, that 
Christ is said not to know the wicked and the thoughtless, because there is nothing in their 
minds which is in agreement with His own. On the other hand, He is said to know the 
good and the faithful, because the principles of their lives are both derived from, and in 
accord with, the principles of His own divine love and wisdom. Accordingly, He says, of 
His true disciples, 
disciples, or His sheep, are formed after His own image and likeness, and thus partake of 
His holy spirit and life. When, therefore, He says to the foolish virgins, I know you not, it 
is the same thing as if He had said, there is nothing in you which is in any agreement with 
My own divine love and wisdom, because you have received only the knowledge of Me 
and of My will in your understandings, but have not conjoined that knowledge with the 
love of Me and of My will in your hearts and lives. The consequence is, that we cannot 
dwell together in the same kingdom, and you cannot be admitted to the heavenly 
marriage, inasmuch as my kingdom is a kingdom of love, of wisdom, and of use united, 
and the heavenly marriage is a conjunction of the same heavenly principles. 
Depart from 
me, therefore, you that work iniquity. 

Watch, therefore, for you know neither the day, 
In the conclusion of the parable it is said, 
nor the hour, wherein the Son of Man comes. 
Watching is a term which applies to the 
​
mind of man, and not to his body; and the mind of man is said to watch when it keeps 
itself open to the light of heavenly truth, and when it thus applies itself to fulfil the duties 
of life, by acting, on all occasions, and in every employment, according to the life and 
spirit of the commandments of God, that is to say, according to justice and judgement, 
sincerity and uprightness. On the other hand, man is said not to watch, or to fall asleep, 
when he suffers his mind to be influenced by mere natural loves and their delusive 
persuasions, and thus separates himself from all the light and comfort of the guidance of 
the eternal truth. 

The day and the hour of the Son of Man's coming denote the time, or state of man's 
acceptance with God, or the time and state of a perfect conjunction with Him, which is 
altogether unknown to man, wherefore he is commanded to watch. 

We are taught, by this parable, that the folly of all follies is to possess knowledge without 
the life of knowledge, or faith without charity, or speculation without practice; and that 
the wisdom of all wisdom is, to conjoin knowledge with its life, faith with its charity, and 
speculation with its practice, since, where these principles are separated in the mind and 
life, there can be no admission to the heavenly marriage, or kingdom of God, but where 
they are conjoined, they never fail to introduce to that kingdom, or marriage, and all its 
joys. 

69 

 
​
​
​
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE MAN TRAVELLING INTO A FAR COUNTRY. 

Matt. 25:14-30. 

For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own 
servants, and delivered to them his goods. And to one he gave five talents, to another two, 
and to another one; to every man according to his several abilities; and straightway took 
his journey. Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and 
made them other five talents. And likewise he that had received two, he also gained 
another two. But he that had received one went and dug in the earth, and hid his Lord's 
money. After a long time the Lord of those servants comes, and reckons with them. And so 
he that had received the five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, 
you delivered to me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. His 
Lord said to him, Well done, you good and faithful servant - you have been faithful over a 
few things, I will make you ruler over many things: enter you into the joy of your Lord. He 
also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, you delivered to me two talents: 
behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. His Lord said to him, Well done, 
good and faithful servant: you have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler 
over many things: enter you into the joy of your Lord. Then he which had received the one 
talent came and said, Lord, I knew you that you are a hard man, reaping where you have 
not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed: and I was afraid, and went 
and hid your talent in the earth: lo, there you have what is yours. His Lord answered and 
said to him, You wicked and lazy servant, you know that I reap where I sowed not, and 
gather where I have not scattered seed: you ought therefore to have put my money to the 
exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. Take 
therefore the talent from him, and give it to him which has ten talents. For to every one 
that has shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that has not shall be 
taken away even that which he has. And cast you the unprofitable servant into outer 
darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 

By the man is meant the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ; and by His travelling into a far 
country, His departure out of the world, and thus His apparent absence, or distance. 

By His servants are meant, all who are in the world; and by calling and delivering to them 
His goods, is to be understood, His communicating to them the knowledges of truth and 
good from His Word, with the faculty of perceiving them. 

It is said, that 
man according to his several ability, and straightway took His journey. 

to one He gave five talents, to another two, and to another one, to every 

By talent is to be understood faculty; and by five, two, and one, are meant the different 
applications of that faculty by different persons; for there is no inequality in God, and, 
therefore, He gives to all alike the facility of procuring to themselves eternal life by a 
right application of the knowledges of truth and good entrusted to their care. The 
difference, therefore, here spoken of, in respect to the number of talents, is intended to 
point out the difference in the use of them by men of different characters. Thus, they who 
greatly improve their talent by a right application of knowledges, are said to have five 
talents; they, again, who unite faith with charity, are said to have two talents, because the 

70 

 
​
number two signifies such conjunction; and, again, they who have faith alone, with.-out 
charity, are described as having only one talent. It is, therefore, said, that He gave to every 
man according to his several ability. 

Taking His journey means the same as travelling into a far country, namely, the Lord's 
departure out of this world, and His apparent absence from His people, whilst they are 
only in the knowledge of truth and good, before they have gained full possession of those 
heavenly principles in their own minds. 

It is said, that 
made other five talents. 

he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and 

By the same are here meant, the knowledges of truth and good, which are signified by 
talents; and by trading with the same is understood, the procuring to himself intelligence 
and wisdom by those knowledges. For the case herein is this, that all heavenly 
knowledges, by which man's salvation is effected, are first stored up in the memory, and, 
if he be a thoughtless and impenitent man, never applying those knowledges to the 
reformation of his life, they remain stored up in the memory only, without ever being 
exalted, as they were intended to be, to any higher degree of the man's life. On the 
contrary, if the man be of an opposite character, and applies the knowledges he has 
received in his memory to the reformation and regulation of his life, they are then exalted 
to a higher place in the man's mind, being admitted into
where, they are no longer knowledges, but intelligence and wisdom; intelligence, so far as 
they are admitted into, and enlighten, the understanding; and wisdom, so far as they are 
admitted into the will, and produce therein the heavenly fruit of love to God and charity 
towards the neighbour. 

his understanding and his will, 

By making other five talents is to be understood, the, immense increase and fruitfulness of 
truth or knowledge, when it comes to be applied to its proper end - the reformation and 
regeneration of the life - and is thus brought into conjunction with its divine source. For, 
in such case, the multiplication and fructification of truth in the human mind, is like that 
of a grain of corn (to which also it is compared in the Sacred Scriptures), when it is cast 
into good ground, which, every one knows, is immense, and exceeds all human 
expectation, so that the product from a single grain of corn might, in a succession of 
years, replenish the whole earth: yet this increase is not more wonderful nor more true, 
than the increase of the talents, here spoken of, when they are applied to the blessed 
purposes for which they are given. A similar increase is signified in the next verse, where 
it is written, that 

likewise he that had received two he also gained other two. 

But it is said, that 
money.  

he that had received one went and dug in the earth, and hid his Lords 

His going and digging in the earth means, his Application to mere external things, such as 
relate to worldly and selfish love; and his hiding his Lord's money means that he so buried 
the knowledges of heavenly truth and the faculty of using them, in those terrestrial and 
filthy loves, that he was no longer aware that he possessed any such faculty or such 
knowledges. Thus his Lord's money was hid both from his own eyes and from the eyes of 
others; from his own eyes, because he had lost sight of such possessions; and from the 
eyes of others, because 
works, and glorify his Father which is in heaven. 

his light did not so shine before men, that they might see his good 

It is next said, that 
them. 

after a long time the Lord of those servants comes, and reckons with 

71 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
​
A long time expresses delay, until the period was fully arrived of the successful issue of 
the faithfulness of the wise servants, and of the unsuccessful issue of the unfaithfulness of 
the unprofitable servants; thus it denotes delay until all the servants were fully tried and 
proved, as to the ruling principles of their lives. 

The Lord, when spoken of in regard to the servants, denotes the principle of heavenly 
good, in regard to the truths which administer to it, and by which it is to be rendered 
fruitful. For the end of all truths is, that they may be productive of heavenly good, and 
afterwards may be conjoined with that good, and thereby, with the Lord Himself. In this, 
therefore, consists the exploration of all truths, and thus of all those who are principled in 
truths, which exploration is here called reckoning. For if truths, or they who are principled 
in truths, are capable of admitting and of being conjoined with heavenly good, which is 
the love of God and neighbourly love, it is then a plain proof that the truths have been 
applied in trading according to the design of their Divine Source. On the contrary, if truths 
have not been so applied, it is then equally certain, that they have not been exercised in 
trading, according to the original intention of Him who save them. 

he who had received five talents came and brought another five talents, 

We next read, that 
saying, Lord, you delivered to me five talents; behold, I have gained beside them five 
talents more. His Lord said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant: you have been 
faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things: enter you into the joy of 
your Lord. 

By bringing the other five talents to his Lord, is to be understood, the humble and grateful 
acknowledgement that this increase and fruitfulness was not from himself, or his own 
exertions, alone, but from his Lord, and the communications of His mercy and truth. 

By the Lord's saying to the servant, well done, is to be understood, Divine approbation 
communicated to the servant's mind, or conscience, which approbation is one and the 
same thing with the influence of the Divine mercy and truth, willingly and gratefully 
received; and he is called good and faithful servant, in regard to the two principles, the 
will and the understanding, in which those heavenly principles of the divine love and truth 
were admitted and rendered fruitful; the will being the receptacle of the divine mercy, or 
love, and the understanding being the receptacle of the divine truth, or wisdom. 

You have been faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over 

The Lord further says, 
many things. 
These words denote a state of dominion over all evils, to which this good 
​
and faithful servant had now attained; for to be faithful over a few things is significative 
of his first state in the regeneration, when he was under the influence only of the 
knowledges of truth in his understanding, which state is expressed by faithfulness over a 
few things; because, whilst man continues to act from truth alone, not fully conjoined 
with heavenly good, there is little or no fruitfulness of heavenly principles in his mind and 
life, and, therefore, the things belonging to him are then called a few things. But to be 
made ruler over many things, is significative of a second state in the regeneration, when 
heavenly good begins to acquire the ascendancy, and, being conjoined with the 
knowledge of truth in the understanding, imparts to man sovereignty and dominion over 
all the lower principles of his mind and life, both good and evil, and this state is expressed 
by the Lord's words, 

I will make you ruler over many things. 

cannot be understood until it be known 
Enter you into the joy of your Lord, 
The words, 
​
what is meant by the Lord's joy, and by entering into it. Now, the Lord's joy consists in 
seeing others happy in and from Himself, that is to say, by conjunction of life with 

72 

 
​
​
​
​
himself. To enter, then, into this joy, is to be made partaker of it; and, therefore, when it is 
said to the good and faithful servant, enter you into the joy of your Lord, it was intended 
to give him an assurance, that he should now on be partaker of a happiness similar to that 
of God Himself, namely, the inconceivable happiness of seeing others happy, and of 
observing, at the same time, that their happiness is at once full and indestructible, by 
virtue of its conjunction with the Eternal and the Infinite. 

It appears that he who had received two talents was in like manner admitted, on account 
of his faithfulness, to spiritual dominion and spiritual joy. But it is said, that when he 
came who had received the one talent, he said, 
Lord, I knew you that you are a hard man, 
reaping where you have not sown, and gathering where you have not scattered seed; and 
I was afraid, and went and hid your fulfill: in, the earth; lo, there you have what is yours. 
By this part of the parable, Jesus Christ meant to instruct us, that His precepts of love and 
charity always appear hard and severe to the thoughtless and impenitent, which, to the 
humble and pious Christian, are most easy, and, at the same time, most delightful, 
agreeably to those words of Jesus Christ, where He says, 
is light. 
The reason why it appears otherwise to the thoughtless and impenitent, is, 
​
because their wills, or love, are not engaged in the service of their heavenly Master, and 
where this is the case, all service must of necessity seem burdensome and grievous. For 
truth without love is the most severe tyrant and taskmaster of all others; as, on the other 
hand, when truth is received with its love, that is to say, with its delight, no service can be 
more sweet and alluring. This servant, therefore, who had received one talent, in other 
words, who was in faith without charity, or in the knowledge of the truth without its life 
and love, charges his Lord with reaping where he had not sown, and gathering where he 
had not scattered seed, thus throwing the blame off himself, and fixing it upon his Lord, 
by endeavouring to prove that his own unfaithfulness and unfruitfulness were.the results, 
not of any fault of his own, but of a defect in his Lord's bounty, and of an 
unreasonableness in his Lord's expectations. 

My yoke is easy, and My harden 

we are 
I was afraid, and went and hid your talent in the earth, 
​

From the man's saying, 
further instructed that fear and dread always accompany unfaithfulness, and are, besides, 
always attended with unfruitfulness; as, on the other hand, hope and consolation are the 
constant offspring of dutiful obedience. We learn, therefore, that we ought always to live 
and act from a principle of love towards God, derived from the mercy and benignity of his 
character, rather than from a principle of dread and slavish apprehension, grounded in a 
sense of His majesty and greatness. 

teach us that the most unfaithful servants are 
Lo, there you have what is yours, 
​

The words, 
willing to make a compromise with God, even though they have nothing to present to 
Him but the truths of their own sad negligence. Thus the unfaithful servant here says to 
his Lord, Lo, there you have what is yours, as if he was fulfilling an act of justice by 
returning to his Lord what he had received from him; whereas it was, in reality, an act of 
injustice, because the talent which he returned was given him for the purpose of being 
increased, and, consequently, in not increasing it he proved himself unjust. 

the Lord answered and said to him, You wicked and lazy servant, you knew 

It follows, that 
that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not scattered seed. You ought, 
therefore, to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have 
Every unprofitable servant is both wicked and lazy; 
received mine own with usury. 
​
wicked, because he remains in natural love, separate from spiritual love, whereby all his 
affections are turned away from God and Heaven; and lazy, because his understanding, in 

73 

 
​
​
​
​
​
such case, has no activity to contemplate on heavenly things, but only to employ itself in 
the lower cares and concerns of this world and the flesh. Moreover, this unprofitable 
servant was subject to condemnation, even upon his own principles, since, had he acted 
in. conformity to the knowledge of his Lord, which he himself professes to have received, 
his conduct would have been more proper and justifiable, because then he would have put 
his Lord's money to the exchangers, so that his Lord at his coming would have received 
his own with usury. By which is meant, that by knowledge he would have acquired love 
and charity, and thus his talent would have been returned to his Lord with the usury, or 
increase, which it was intended to procure. 

Take therefore the talent from him and give it to him that has ten talents. 

But it is said, 
For to every one that has shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but from him that 
has not shall be taken away even that which he has. 
By the talent, as was said, are 
​
signified the knowledges of truth with which the unprofitable servant had been gifted, and 
by the command, therefore, to take away this talent, is signified the effect produced by the 
servant's unprofitableness, in depriving him of those knowledges. For such is the nature of 
all sin, that, opposing the eternal truth, it destroys in itself the knowledges of that truth, so 
as to make itself desolate of all heavenly light by plunging into the darkness which 
favours its own cravings. 

signifies the effect produced by a 
Give it to him which has ten talents, 
​

The command, 
proper and profitable use of the knowledges of truth, which effect is, that they increase by 
use, and are the exclusive property of those who apply them to the purposes for which 
they are given to procure by it the good of heavenly love and charity, by applying it to the 
removal of all contrary loves, that so the supreme good may be exalted and operative in 
every principle both of mind and body. Lastly, we are instructed, as to the consequences 
resulting from the right and wrong application of the above inestimable talent committed 
to every one's care; that the right application leads to dominion over all the powers of evil 
and darkness, and, at the same time, to a blessed conjunction with Heaven and its God; 
whereas the wrong application leads to the deprivation of all heavenly knowledge, and, 
thus, to the grossest degree of spiritual darkness, and, finally, to an intestine hatred against 
all the goodness and truth of Heaven, thus to a miserable association with wicked spirits 
in the bottomless pit. 

74 

 
​
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE MAN WHO CAST SEED INTO THE GROUND, etc. 

Mark. 4:26-29. 

And he said, So is the Kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground; and 
should sleep, and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up, he knows 
not how. For the earth brings forth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, after that 
the full corn in the ear. But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he puts in the 
sickle, because the harvest is come. 

The Kingdom of God is the government of divine love and wisdom in the minds and lives 
of angels and of men; for wherever such government prevails, there the Almighty rules as 
in His own kingdom, and, consequently, there is the Kingdom of God. This kingdom is 
like a man who casts seed into the ground, because the seed, here spoken of, is the Word 
of God; and the ground into which the seed is cast is the human understanding 
the Word of God is received and exalted in the human understanding, it introduces and 
establishes, by degrees, in the human mind and life the government of the Divine Love 
and Wisdom, which, as was said, is the Kingdom of God. 

and when 
; 
​

By sleeping and rising, according to a natural idea, is understood natural sleep, and 
natural awaking out of sleep; but, according to the spiritual idea, which is the idea here 
intended to be suggested, by sleeping is to be understood a state of natural affection and 
thought, whilst by rising is to be understood a state of spiritual affection and thought. 
For 
natural affection and thought, when compared with spiritual, is like sleep, or the state of a 
man in sleep, compared with awaking out of sleep, or with the state of a man who is so 
awakened; and hence, the Apostle, in calling man to a state of repentance and faith, which 
is a spiritual state of mind, uses this strong and striking figurative language, 
that sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give you light. 
Jesus Christ, 
​
therefore, would teach, by the above expressions, that spiritual sleep is as necessary for 
the soul, in the progress of its regeneration, till it becomes a Kingdom of God, as natural 
sleep is for the body; in other words, He would instruct us, that in the progress of 
regeneration there is a regular alternation of state, which is of such a nature that the 
regenerating person cannot always remain in a state of spiritual affection and thought, but 
must descend, at intervals, into natural affection and thought, it being the end of 
regeneration to unite the internal man with the external, and the external with the internal, 
mutually, which end cannot be accomplished but by successive sleeping and rising, 
according to the above idea, until at length the internal man is exalted to dominion above 
the external, or, what amounts to the same thing, until spiritual affection and thought 
gains the entire ascendancy and control over natural affection and thought. 

Awake you 

The reason why the subject of spiritual sleep is little considered and understood seems to 
be this, that the generality of Christians separate their religion from the business and 
duties of common life, until thus separate the spiritual, or internal, man from the natural, 
or external, man, not aware that it is the design of God, and the end of religion, to join 
together those two men, by introducing a spiritual, or religious, principle from the internal 
mind, to govern and direct all the thoughts, word, and works of the external. They 
suppose, therefore, that before a man can be truly religious, he must quit all his 

75 

 
​
​
​
engagements in the world, and devote himself entirely to a life of piety and 
contemplation. Thus they would be always awake, according to the spiritual idea, and 
never asleep
in other words, they would be always in a spiritual state, and never in a 
; 
​
natural state. But Jesus Christ, in this edifying parable, teaches a contrary lesson by 
instructing us that spiritual sleep is necessary, as well as spiritual awaking, or, to speak 
without a figure, that it is necessary for man to descend, at times, from his high 
contemplations and pious meditations, to attend to the common duties and business of 
life, that so he may live a life of uses and good offices amongst his fellow-men, as well as 
a life of piety and devotion to his God, this being the end of all the commandments and 
dispensations of God, to join spiritual and natural life, and thus heaven and earth, together 
in man, that so God may rule, and guide, and bless man, in every principle and degree of 
his life, from first to last, from inmost to outermost. Nature, therefore, is not to be 
annihilated by grace, I ml, rather to be controlled, amended, and blessed; thus the natural 
affections, natural thoughts, and natural delights, are not to be destroyed, but to be 
submitted, so as to be rendered instrumental, in their place and degree, in promoting the 
greater to the service and happiness of His creatures. This attention, therefore, to spiritual 
duties on the one hand, and to natural duties on the other, and to the conjunction of both, 
is what Jesus Christ principally meant to enforce, when He describes the man in the 
parable as alternately sleeping and rising. 

The night and day, spoken of in this parable, are to be understood, according to a spiritual 
idea, as relating to the soul, or spirit, of man, and not to his body; and in agreement with 
this idea, by night is to be understood the natural life of man, before he becomes spiritual, 
and also every state of darkness through which he has to pass in the process of 
regeneration, until the natural life is entirely submitted to the spiritual. By day, again, 
according to the same idea, is to be understood the first dawning of spiritual life in man, 
or the first manifestation of the divine love and wisdom in his inner man, for light and 
consolation. For, as the natural day is an effect of the rising and appearing of the natural 
sun, to give the blessings of natural light and warmth to the creation of God, in like 
manner the spiritual day is a result of the rising and manifestation of the spiritual sun, or 
the Sun of Righteousness, to impart spiritual light and heat, which is the light of wisdom, 
and the consolation of love, to all those happy beings who open their eyes and their hearts 
to the reception of those blessed and eternal principles. Night and day, therefore, as here 
applied in the parable, are again expressive of the same alternations of state which were 
before signified by sleeping and rising.  

By the seed, as was said above, is meant the Word of God, or, what amounts to the same 
thing the Eternal Truth, and by this seed springing is to be understood, its reception and 
operation in the understanding of man; and by its growing up is to be further understood, 
its reception and operation in the will of man. By both expressions united, then, is 
intended to be described the reception and operation of the Eternal Truth in every 
principle of the mind and life of man, since will and understanding properly constitute the 
whole of man, insomuch that, if the Eternal Truth is admitted into both those principles, 
and suffered to operate there, it never fails to take possession of every other faculty, until 
it renders man a blessed form and image of its own purity and power in all his affections, 
thoughts, words, and works. It is not enough, therefore, that the Divine Seed of the Word 
of God should spring up in the understanding of man, and make itself manifest there 
under the form of heavenly knowledge or science; but it must also grow up in the will, 
and there manifest itself in the spirit and power of heavenly love and charity, otherwise it 
takes but a partial possession of the human faculties, and can never form man entirely 

76 

 
​
after its own image and likeness. This, therefore, was the reason why the two distinct 
expressions of springing and growing up are here applied by the Divine Speaker.  

teach us that it is impossible for 
he knows not how, 
​

The words which immediately follow, 
man to comprehend the several particular steps and stages in the process of his 
regeneration, or in the growth and fruitfulness of the Divine Seed of eternal life in his own 
bosom, since there is reason to believe, that they are like the hairs of his head, which 
cannot be numbered. Jesus Christ teaches the same lesson in another place, where, 
speaking of the Divine Operation, He says, 
the sound thereof, but can not tell whence it comes, and whither it goes: so is every one 
that is born of the Spirit 
(John 3:8). It is enough, therefore, for man to know, that if he 
​
admits the Eternal Truth into his understanding, and cherishes it in his will, or love, by 
rejecting from his heart and life the things which are in opposition to it, the Divine Seed 
will then, assuredly, spring and grow up, and, notwithstanding his ignorance of the 
particulars of its growth, will finally become that Tree of Life, of which it is written, 
him that overcomes will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the 
2:7).  
Paradise of God (Rev. 
​

where it lists, and you hearest 

The wind blows
​

To 

By the earth is meant the Church, or men of the Church, who receive the seed of the 
Eternal Truth, and bring forth its fruits, as the earth receives the seeds of plants and 
vegetables, and brings forth their fruits. And by the earth bringing forth fruit is to be 
understood, that the members of the Church cherish the seed of eternal life in their 
understandings, until it operates upon their wills, and there produces the blessed fruit of 
love and charity, of love towards God, and charity towards man, from which are further 
derived the fruits of use and good service, manifested in the faithful discharge of the 
several duties, offices, and employments, to which every member of the Church is called 
for the general good. And by the earth bringing forth fruit of herself is further to be 
understood, not that she does it independently of Divine Aid, or by any power properly 
her own, for the members of the Church, who are here signified by the earth, are 
continually aware of the truth of what Jesus Christ taught them, when He said, 
Me you can do nothing; 
but that, under the full acknowledgement of her perpetual 
​
dependence on her Divine Lord for His merciful
necessity of exerting
assistance. Thus she sees the necessity of searching out and combating her natural evils, 
as of herself, but still under the conviction, that she can only do so successfully whilst she 
looks up to her Redeeming Lord. In like manner she offers up her daily supplications, as 
of herself, and performs her daily works of charity, as of herself, yet, in everything 
confessing from her heart, that 
commandments. 
The members of the Church, therefore, do not hang down their hands in 
​
the vain expectation that God will move them by His immediate, irresistible operation, to 
subdue evil, and to do good, for they are well aware that in such case they would be mere 
machines, and not those free and voluntary agents which God intended to make them. But 
they exert themselves, as if the power of exertion was entirely their own, and by this 
means they attain, finally, to perfect freedom, and, at the same time, to the most absolute 
dependence, whilst they think everything, and do everything, as if left to themselves, and 
yet are deeply sensible that all their power of thinking and acting is from God, and 
nothing at all from themselves. 

herself, as of herself, to give saving effect to that grace and 

it is God who works in her both to will and to do of His 

grace and assistance, she still sees the 

Without 

The product of the Eternal Truth, or Word of God, in the mind and life of the devout 
receiver, is figuratively described by the product of a grain of corn, which consists 

77 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
 
​
​
principally of these three distinct parts, the blade, the ear, and the full corn in the ear. By 
the blade, therefore, is to be understood, the first manifestation of the Divine Truth in 
man's memory, where it appears under the form of science, or knowledge, and is stored up 
for future use, or for the production of the ear, which cannot otherwise be produced. 
According to the same spiritual view, by the ear is to be understood the reception of the 
same divine truth in the understanding of man, and its operation there, which effect has 
place whenever man begins from his heart to love and delight in the truth, so as to exalt it 
above all other things, and to suffer it to control all his affections, thoughts, words, and 
works. And by the full corn in the ear, agreeably to the same idea, is to be understood, the 
birth and manifestation of heavenly love and charity in the will, which is love towards 
God, and love towards our neighbour, together with the operation of that love. Thus, these 
three natural terms, the blade, the ear, and the full corn in the ear, in their spiritual 
signification, involve all the states of man's regeneration, from the first insemination of 
the Eternal Truth in his memory and understanding, to its last product in the will, or love, 
until it changes its name and nature, and manifests itself in the blessed power and full 
operation of angelic love and charity, thus of angelic life and blessedness. In this last state 
it is called the full corn in the ear, because it is now filled with the Life of God, that is to 
say, with His Divine Love and Wisdom, thus with all fullness. 

It is lastly added, that when the fruit is brought forth, 
harvest is come. 
We have already seen, what is spiritually meant by the fruit being 
​
brought forth, or (as perhaps it might be better rendered), being ripe. 

he puts in the sickle, because the 

By the sickle, according to the spiritual idea, is to be understood, the power of Divine 
Truth in its operation of exploring and separating all things in the Church, and in the 
members of the Church. For when this Divine Truth has been inseminated, and has 
brought forth its proper fruits, whether in the
Church in particular, it then assumes another office, signified here by the sickle, of 
exploration mid separation of all things and principles which are contrary to its own 
nature. Thus, in the Church in general, the evil are separated from the good, whilst the 
good are raised into Heaven, and the evil cast down into hell; and so also in the members 
of the Church in particular, an eternal separation takes place between the principles of 
good, and the principles of evil, the former being exalted to everlasting conjunction with 
God, whilst the latter are removed and eternally associated with their like in the kingdom 
of darkness.  

Church in general, or in the members of the 
​

refer to the separation 
because the harvest is come, 
​

The concluding words of the parable, 
above referred to, and signified by the sickle, which separation always takes place 
whenever the Church in general, or a member of the Church in particular, attains to a full 
state of heavenly good, or to a full state of love and charity, signified by the full corn in 
the ear, because, whenever this state takes place, then the blessed powers of good and 
truth gain the ascendancy, so as to overcome and separate eternally from themselves the 
contrary infernal powers of what is evil and false. In the representative Church, therefore, 
this state was ordained to be kept holy, which solemnity was called the feast of harvest, 
consisting in the offering up of devout thanksgiving to the Almighty for His unspeakable 
mercies in accomplishing such a state. This spiritual harvest is also frequently spoken of 
by Jesus Christ, as where He says, 
few; pray you therefore the Lord of the harvest, that He will send forth labourers into His 
Say you not there are yet four months, and 
(Matt. 9:37, 38); and in another place, 
harvest 
​
; 
then comes harvest? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields
​

The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers are 

for 

78 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
(John 4:35). 
they are white already to harvest 
​

From this parable we learn, in the first place, that the Kingdom of God is only to be 
opened and formed in man by the insemination of the Eternal Truth of God's Most Holy 
Word. We learn, further, that this truth cannot spring up and bear its fruits, but through a 
variety of alternate states on the part of man, according to which alternations he is 
sometimes in a natural state of life, and sometimes in a spiritual state, thus sometimes is 
sleeping, and sometimes is rising, or waking, while sometimes it is night, and sometimes 
day. We learn, also, that in all these states there is a growth of the heavenly seed, though 
man is entirely ignorant both of the manner and measure of its growth. We learn, again, 
that this growth is effected whilst man co-operates with it, and that in this co-operation he 
must act freely as of himself, yet in a full dependence on Divine Aid and Strength. Thus 
he must reject evil, and do good, and perform all his spiritual and natural duties in perfect 
freedom, as if left to himself, but yet under the full acknowledgement that all his power to 
reject evil, and to do good, is from God, and not at all from himself. Lastly, we learn, that 
the productions of the heavenly seed in the human mind are threefold; first, in the 
memory, where it appears in the form of science; secondly, in the understanding, where it 
is exalted as a heavenly power to guide and control the affections, the thoughts, the 
words, and works; and, lastly, in the will, where it operates in producing unfeigned love 
towards God, and charity towards man. When the eternal truth has attained to this state of 
growth, it then operates further, through the heavenly spirit of love in the will, in effecting 
an eternal separation between the principles of good and evil, so that the former are 
elevated into Heaven, and the latter are cast down into the deep. Let us resolve, therefore, 
through the Divine Grace, so to cherish in our minds and lives the Divine Seed of God's 
Most Holy Word, that it may attain in us its highest state of growth and fruitfulness, and, 
rescuing us from all evil, may finally fill us with all heavenly graces and virtues, and thus 
open in us its own heavenly kingdom, in which we may ever sing the angelic song, 
Glory 
Amen. 
to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good-will towards men. 
​

79 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE BLIND LEADING THE BLIND. 

Luke 6:39-42. 

And he spoke a parable to them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into 
the ditch? The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as 
his master. And why behold you the speck that is in your brother's eye, but perceive not 
the beam that is in your own eye. Either how can you say to your brother, Brother, let me 
pull out the speck that is in your eye, when you yourself behold not the beam that is in 
your own eye? You hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of your own eye, and then shall 
you see clearly to pull out the speck that is in your brother's eye. 

The blind who lead the blind, denote, in general, all those who are without the 
understanding of truth, and who yet pretend to teach truth, and who, therefore, are called 
blind; whilst they, who listen to and receive their instruction are also called blind, because 
they do not admit into their minds the light of truth; but specifically, the words apply to 
the Scribes and Pharisees of old, who, being void of the understanding of truth, taught 
things contrary to truth, or things false, and thus misled their hearers, who are, therefore, 
called blind, as being alike destitute of the understanding of truth. 

The signification of the ditch will perhaps best appear from the following passage in the 
Psalms: 
Behold, he travails with iniquity, and has conceived mischief, and brought forth 
falsehood. He made a pit and dug it, and is fallen into the ditch which he made 
(Psalm 
​
7:14, 15). For, from these words, it is plain, that iniquity, mischief, and falsehood, are 
called a pit, which the ungodly man digs, and the ditch into which he falls; and since those 
terms involve in them all that is opposite to the truth, therefore, it is reasonable to 
conclude that whatsoever is opposite to the Eternal Truth, or to the revealed Word of God, 
in the ideas and imaginations of mankind, is the ditch above spoken of, into which all fall, 
who either pervert or deny the truth of God.  

It is immediately added by Jesus Christ, 
The disciple is not above his master, but every 
one that is perfect shall be as his master. 
The connection between these words and the 
​
preceding ones is not discernible if we regard only the letter, but, according to the spirit, 
or their internal sense, the connection is plain and striking. For by the disciple is here 
meant one who receives instruction, and by his master one who gives instruction, 
consequently, the truth itself, since truth is properly the only instructor, whilst the teacher 
of truth is merely the instrument by which it is administered. When it is said, therefore, 
it was intended to teach the edifying and important 
The disciple is not above his master, 
​
lesson, that man, in receiving instruction, ought to submit to the light and guidance of the 
Eternal Truth, so as to suffer it to direct and control all his own thoughts, imaginations, 
and persuasions. It is, therefore, added, 
Every one that is perfect shall be as his master, 
which is the same thing as if it had been said, that all perfection consists in submitting to 
the guidance of the, Eternal Truth, by bringing every purpose, thought, and imagination of 
the natural mind into conformity with its light and purity.  

The connection, therefore, between these words and the above parable, is manifest, since 
the parable speaks of the blind, or those who have no understanding of truth, whilst the 
words here added are intended to teach how that blindness may be removed, and the 

80 

 
​
​
​
understanding of truth be attained, namely, by yielding implicit obedience to the dictates 
of truth, or to the precepts of the Holy Word, so as to suffer them to be exalted to an 
uppermost place in the mind, and from that exaltation to exercise dominion over, and 
dispense light to, all the lower principles and persuasions of the human spirit. 

Why behold you the speck that is in your brother's eye, 

It is further added, by Jesus Christ, 
but perceive not the beam that is in your own eye? 
These, and the following words, must 
​
be regarded as to their internal sense before they will appeal-connected with the 
foregoing, for, according to the internal sense of the words, Jesus Christ is here speaking 
of the eye of the mind, which is the understanding; and by the speck in this eye, He 
figures by the most apt similitude, the erroneous persuasions which have place in the 
understanding; whilst by the beam He meant, further, to express the principle of evil, in 
which those erroneous persuasions originate. For, by a beam is meant a piece of wood, or 
timber, and, by wood, or timber, when the expression occurs in the word of God, is 
always figured in a good sense, the principle of good, or the principle of heavenly love 
and charity, and, therefore, when applied in an opposite, or bad sense, it always denotes 
the principles of evil, or that principle which is opposite to heavenly love and charity.  

The reasoning, therefore, of Jesus Christ, on this occasion, is to this effect, that man, in 
order to admit, and be qualified to teach, the Eternal Truth, ought to attend diligently to 
the source of evil and corrupt love in his own mind, so as to cast it out by a rigorous 
repentance, rather than to notice the erroneous persuasions which prevail in his 
understanding, since error can never be removed, only so far as its defiled source is 
discovered, with a sincere purpose to remove it. It is, therefore, said, 
out first the beam out of your own eye, and then shall you see clearly to pull out the speck 
that is in your brother's eye, 
to denote that, when evil is repented of and forsaken, then the 
​
light of truth presently begins to shine bright in the understanding, to the correction and 
removal of all erroneous persuasions and imaginations whatsoever. The connection, 
therefore, between these words and the parable is again manifest, since, as the parable 
relates to the want of the understanding of truth, and to the terrible effects of that 
deprivation, so these words teach, again, how that understanding may be restored, namely, 
by the spirit of sincere repentance in exploring and rejecting all the principles of evil in 
the will. 

You hypocrite, cast 

We learn, from this parable, that there is such a thing as spiritual blindness, as well as 
natural blindness, and that spiritual blindness consists in the want of the understanding of 
truth, or of the revealed wisdom of the Most High, since nothing can properly be called 
truth but that wisdom. We learn, further, that they who teach, and they who are taught, are 
alike spiritually blind, if the understanding of truth be wanting. Again, we learn what is 
the terrible consequence of such spiritual blindness, because, sooner or later, it never fails 
to plunge its unhappy subjects into a ditch; in other words, into the defiled miserable 
abode of all false and mistaken persuasions, which being in opposition to the Eternal 
Truth, exclude for ever its blessed light and comfort. Lastly, we are taught, by the 
application of this parable, that the only effectual method of acquiring the understanding 
of truth, is to submit to its authority, so as to bring all the principles of the mind and life 
into obedience to its dictates, this being the true source and ground of all human 
perfection; and that, with this view, man ought to regard in himself the principle of evil in 
his will, more than of error in his understanding, and, accordingly, to labour by sincere 
repentance to remove the former, as the most effectual method of securing the removal of 
the latter.  

81 

 
​
​
Let us resolve, therefore, from now on, through the Divine grace and mercy, to endeavour 
to guard against the terrible mischief of spiritual blindness, and, with this view, to attend 
well to our daily conduct, until all our purposes, thoughts, words, and works are brought 
into conformity with the Eternal Truth. Let us further resolve to watch well against all the 
motions of evil in the will, arising; either from an inordinate self-love, or love of the 
world, that so, having purified our hearts from till defiled affections, we may be in a better 
state to discern the speck that is in our brother's eye, and so to pull it out. Thus may 
we 
hope, through the Divine blessing, no longer to be of the number of the blind leaders of 
the blind, who both fall into the ditch, but rather to be of the happy number of those of 
whom it is written, 
Amen, 
heart, for they shall see God. 
​

and again, 
Blessed are your eyes for they see; 
​

Blessed are the pure in 

82 

 
​
​
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

A CERTAIN CREDITOR WHICH HAD TWO DEBTORS. 

Luke 7:41-43. 

There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, 
and the other fifty. And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell 
me, therefore, which of them will love him most? Simon answered and said, I suppose that 
he, to whom he forgave most. And he said to him, You have rightly judged. 

By the creditor is to be understood, the Almighty Father and Governor of the Universe; 
and by his debtors, the whole human race who have received, and continually receive, 
from His bounty the all of their life, its faculties, and its enjoyments. 

These debtors are called two debtors, in order to distinguish them into the two classes 
afterwards, mentioned, and described in these words: 
The one owed him five hundred 
pence, and the other fifty. 

By the one who owed five hundred pence, is to be understood, that class of mankind who 
have received much at the hands of their Heavenly Father; and by him who owed fifty 
pence, is to be understood, that class who have received something, but not to the same 
amount with the other class. 

It is to be observed, that this inequality does not originate in the Almighty, but in the use 
which the two classes of men, above spoken of, make of His gifts, whilst some improve 
them to a greater amount than others, agreeably to what is written in another parable, in 
which mention is made of giving to one servant ten pounds, to another five, and to 
another one; where the unequal distribution of the pounds is to be attributed to the 
unequal use which the several servants made of their respective talents. 

The debt in general, as was above observed, which all mankind alike owe to their 
Heavenly Father, is the constant communication of life and all its enjoyments. But the life 
of man, it is well known, is of several orders and degrees; being first corporeal, then 
sensual, then natural, then rational, and, in case the man himself labours to attain it, 
spiritual and celestial. The life of man, therefore, which is every instant communicated 
from the Father of his being, is capable of continual elevation, until it rises and returns to 
its Divine Giver; and until again it descends from the Divine Giver, and manifests itself in 
all the works of a good and holy life. Though every man, therefore, receives from God the 
blessed gift of life with its enjoyments, and is indebted to God every instant for the 
continuance, support, and preservation of that gift; yet it does not hence follow, that every 
man turns the gift to all that advantage which was designed by the Giver, since experience 
teaches, that some men remain in a merely natural state of life, notwithstanding the 
faculty they possess of elevating it to a higher state. Hence, then, may be discovered the 
ground of the distinction, made in the parable, between the debtor who 
pence, 
inasmuch as the debt of five hundred pence implies 
fifty; 
and him who owed only 
​
​
that the gift of life had been improved according to the designs of the Giver, and thus had 
yielded much increase; whereas the debt of fifty pence implies that the gift had not been 
so much improved, and, consequently, had yielded less increase.  

owed five hundred 

It is written of these two debtors, that 

when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave 

83 

 
​
​
​
​
them both. 

By having nothing to pay is to be understood, the general condition of all mankind, which 
is such, that they have nothing of their own, by which they can make any suitable return 
for the immense gifts bestowed on them by their heavenly Father. For all the return they 
can possibly make, on this occasion, is the humble and grateful acknowledgement of the 
divine bounty, which has heaped on them so many valuable gifts; and since they cannot 
make even this acknowledgement without the aid of the Divine Giver, therefore, in 
making this return, they give nothing of their own, and only increase the debt which they 
owe to their Benefactor. 

involves in it all the depths of the divine 
he frankly forgave them both, 
​

The expression, 
mercy and disinterested benevolence of the Father of Mercies, which is of such a nature, 
that He is ever disposed to forgive, or to remit, the immense debt owing to Him from His 
creatures, whenever He sees them humble and grateful enough to acknowledge it. 
Accordingly, in the divine prayer, which He Himself has been pleased to teach for the 
benefit of His children, it is written, 
Forgive [or remit to] us our debts, as we forgive [or 
remit to] our debtors; 
in which words is contained and expressed the single condition of 
​
obtaining from the Almighty the forgiveness, or remission, of the debt owing to Him from 
all His creatures; which condition is simply this, that His creatures should acknowledge 
gratefully, not only how much they are indebted to their Heavenly Father, but likewise 
how much they owe to their fellow-men for all the comforts which they enjoy. 

It is remarkable that, in the account of this parable, Jesus Christ Himself does not 
announce the lesson which He intended should be deduced from it, but only asks the 
significant question, 

Tell me, therefore, which of them will love him most? 

The only assignable reason for His conduct on this occasion appears to be this, that He 
thought it best to appeal to the common sense and reason of mankind in a case so plain 
and self-evident, being fully assured that the answer to His question would be according 
to the tenor of that which was afterwards given by Simon, who answered and said, 
Thus, in agreement with the testimony of the 
suppose that he to whom He forgave most. 
​
common sense and reason of mankind, the blessed Jesus would establish the validity of 
this great truth, that the more man is made sensible in his own mind of the immense debt 
which he owes to his Heavenly Father, the more he will be disposed to regard that Father, 
from a principle of reciprocal love and affection; this being the great end and design of all 
the blessings bestowed on mankind from above, to excite a grateful acknowledgement, 
and in that gratitude to enkindle a flame of devout regard, which may incline the humble 
debtor to love Him, who is essential love, and who communicates His favours for no other 
purpose than to impart that love.  

I 

He turned to the woman, and said to Simon, See 

Jesus Christ, we find, Himself makes the application of the above parable in these 
remarkable words, where it is said, that 
you this woman? I entered into your house, you gave me no water for my feet; but she has 
washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head. You gave me no 
kiss; but this woman, since the time I came in, has not ceased to kiss my feet. My head 
with oil you did not anoint; but this woman has anointed my feet with ointment. 
Wherefore I say to you, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but 
to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little. 

By the woman, here spoken of, is figured and represented the Church, as to the affection 
of truth and good, which constitutes the Church; and by the several acts which this 

84 

 
​
​
​
​
​
woman performed on the feet of the Redeemer, as washing, wiping, kissing, and 
anointing, are further figured and described the genuine offices and operations of that 
affection. 

By washing the Redeemer's feet with tears, and wiping them with the hairs of the head, is 
denoted the purification of the natural principle, which is two-fold: first, by truth, which is 
signified by washing; and, secondly, by the good of truth, signified by wiping; which 
latter operation is performed by the hairs of the head, as the former is performed by tears; 
because, by tears is represented an order of interior truth, as by the hairs of the head is 
represented a similar order of interior good of truth. By kissing, again, is figured 
conjunction with the Lord's natural principle of His Divine Humanity, by the affection of 
truth, as by anointing is figured the same conjunction by the affection of good. Thus, the 
four acts of washing, of wiping, of kissing, and of anointing the feet of the Great 
Redeemer, are figurative of the whole process of the Church's reformation and 
regeneration, which consists in purification from all evil, and final conjunction with the 
divine humanly of Jesus Christ in the affection of heavenly truth and good. It accordingly 
follows, in this history, 
for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little. 
For by loving 
​
much is to be understood, a devout and sincere regard to
Law; and wherever this love prevails, there sin, let it be ever so multiplied, must of 
necessity be forgiven, or remitted, since a pure love and sin can never abide together in 
the same dwelling; and, therefore, if a pure disinterested love be exalted to preeminence in 
the human mind, every kind and degree of sin must, sooner or later, be expelled from that 
mind. For the same reason, 
because, by 
to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little; 
​
little being forgiven is implied, that the immense debt, owing to the great Creator, has 
never been explored and acknowledged; and the consequence must of necessity be, in 
such case, that there will be little love, since, as was above observed, the measure of every 
man's love to his Heavenly Father will depend altogether upon the measure he takes of the 
benefits and blessings which he has received from that Father. 

Wherefore I say to you, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; 

the Divine Being and His Holy 
​

From this parable we learn, in the first place, that the Divine Being, the Creator and 
Preserver of all other beings, is the universal Creditor, whilst all His creatures, in one 
degree or other, are His debtors. We learn, further, that these debtors are of two 
classes-one owing five hundred pence, and the other fifty; and that these classes are 
determined by the estimate which every man makes of the mercies he has received from 
his bountiful and Divine Parent. We learn, still further, that it is impossible for man to pay 
the above debt, but by the humble and grateful acknowledgement of his Heavenly Father's 
benevolence, and that when this acknowledgement is made, the debt is in the same 
proportion forgiven, or remitted. Lastly, we learn that the degree of man's love, or regard, 
to his Divine Benefactor, will always depend on the degree in which he is affected by the 
multiplied and valuable gifts which he has received from Him; insomuch, that he who is 
little affected will love little, whilst he who is much affected will love much.  

Let us resolve, therefore, from now on, to make it the principal business and concern of 
our lives, to form a just estimate of the immense debt which we owe to our God and 
Saviour, taking into the account not only what He has done, and is continually doing, as to 
the preservation and blessing of our bodily life, but, also, what is of infinitely more 
importance, all that He has done, and is continually doing for the preservation and 
blessing of our spiritual life, as to all its faculties, operations, and enjoyments. Let us 
resolve, further, to endeavour to form in ourselves the blessed habit of a grateful 

85 

 
​
​
 
​
acknowledgement of this immense debt, under a sensible conviction, that according to 
such acknowledgement will be the exact measure of our love and regard to the great 
Author of our being. Thus may we humbly hope no longer to imitate the Pharisee, 
mentioned in this history, who suspected a want of judgement and discernment in his 
Saviour God, but rather to follow the example of the woman, of whom it is written, as an 
everlasting memorial of pious affection, that she washed her Saviour's feet with her tears, 
wiped them with the hairs of her head, kissed, and anointed them. For thus may we hope, 
like this woman, to enter upon the great work of purification, by which, finally, we may 
be admitted to the inconceivable and eternal happiness of a blessed conjunction with our 
God and Saviour, through His Divine Humanity, and may thus be greeted with the 
Amen. 
her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. 
consolatory language, 
​

86 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE GOOD SAMARITAN. 

Luke 10:30-36. 

A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, who 
stripped him of his clothing, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And 
by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by 
on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on 
him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came 
where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, and went to him, and 
bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought 
him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the next day when he departed, he took out 
two pence, and gave them to the host, and said to him, Take care of him; and whatsoever 
you spend more, when I come again, I will repay you. Which now of these three, think 
you, was neighbour to him that fell among the thieves? 

Jesus Christ, in this parable, describes the offices and exercises of charity in a two-fold 
sense; first, as they regard the body; and, secondly, as they regard the mind. The first of 
these offices and exercises is described in the letter, or history, of this parable, and the 
second in the spirit, or spiritual sense, contained in that letter, or history. Thus he speaks 
at once for the use of men and of angels; of men, by recommending works of charity done 
to the body, and of angels and angelic men, by recommending at the same time works of 
charity done to the immortal soul, or spirit. According to this latter kind, or description, of 
charity, by 
are to be understood all 
a certain man going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, 
​
those of the church, represented by Jerusalem, who are desirous of acquiring the 
knowledges of the eternal truth, for the purpose of acquiring purity of life, and thus an 
acquaintance with the Eternal Truth itself; for Jericho was a city representative of those 
knowledges, being on the other side of Jordan from the land of Canaan, and thus 
figurative of what is introductory to the land of Canaan, or to Heaven, which was 
represented by that land, consequently, figurative of all the heavenly knowledges of truth 
and good, because these are the only introductory principles to the true Canaan. 

According to the spiritual interpretation of this parable, by thieves are to be understood 
spiritual thieves, or such as endeavour to deprive man of his spiritual property, that is to 
say, of the heavenly truths which he has admitted into his understanding, and of the 
heavenly good which he has received into his will. By falling among these thieves, 
therefore, is to be understood, that they who are in the pursuit of heavenly knowledges are 
exposed to the danger of being deprived of those knowledges by those of the perverse 
church, who are in those knowledges, but not in a life according to them. They are, 
therefore, said to be stripped of their clothing, because clothing has relation to the truths 
which a man has imbibed in his understanding. And they are said also to be wounded, 
because spiritual wounding has relation to the evils and false principles of life with which 
man is infested when he is deprived of the knowledges of the Eternal Truth. And, lastly, 
they are said to be left half dead, because to be half dead denotes the almost total 
extinction of spiritual life, in consequence of such evil and false persuasions. 

It is said, that 

by chance there came down a certain Priest that way, and when he saw 

87 

 
​
​
him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, 
came and looked on, and passed by on the other side. 
By the Priest and the Levite, here 
​
spoken of, are to be understood those of the perverted Church who ought to have been 
principled in heavenly love and charity, but were not so. By the Priest are represented 
those who ought to have been principled in heavenly love, that is to say, in love to the 
Lord, because this is the principal love which prevails in heaven, and was represented 
under the old law by the office of Priests. But by the Levite were represented those who 
ought to have been principled in the life of charity, because the tribe of Levi was 
representative of that principle, having its name from Levi, which signifies adhesion, and 
is thus figurative of the life of charity. By their passing by, therefore, on the other side, is 
to be understood that they had neither heavenly love nor charity, and, thus, that they were 
in no disposition either to heal the spiritual wounds, or cover the spiritual nakedness of 
him who fell among thieves. 

a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was; and when 

But it is written, that 
he saw him he had compassion on him, and went to him, and bound up his wounds, 
pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and 
took care of him. And on the next day when he departed, he took out two pence and gave 
them to the host, and said to him, Take care of him; and whatsoever you spend more, 
when I come again I will repay you. 

The Samaritans were regarded by the Jews as Gentiles, and, therefore, they represented all 
those who arc in simple natural good, but as yet uninstructed in the doctrines of faith, or 
truth, that is to say, in the doctrines of the Church, and yet have a desire to be instructed. 
It is, therefore, said, as 
because journeying, according to the spiritual idea, 
he journeyed, 
​
denotes instruction in truth, which is to conduct to the good of heavenly life. Every man, 
therefore, is considered as a pilgrim, or journeyer, here on earth, so long as he is under the 
leading of truth, but as soon as ever he attains, by that leading, to a state of heavenly 
good, which is the good of love and charity, he is then said to be at rest, or to be arrived at 
the end of his journey. 

is denoted, that he came into the same state 
came where he was, 
​

By the expression, he 
with the man who had fallen among thieves; in other words, that he made the man's case 
when he saw him, he 
his own, regarding him as a brother, and, therefore, it is added, that 
had compassion on him; 
by which is signified, that he regarded the man with brotherly 
​
love and tenderness, and this in consequence of placing himself in the man's situation, and 
thinking that he ought to do to others as he would have others do to him. 

denote willing 
went to him, 
​

All the expressions which immediately follow represent the acts and offices of charity, 
especially as applied in the instruction of the ignorant, and in rescuing them from the 
mischiefs of ignorance and of evil. The words, therefore, he 
descent and application to spiritual distress, with a view to its relief: by binding up his 
wounds, pouring in oil and wine, is represented instruction in heavenly good and heavenly 
truth, and the consequent removal of evil and of error; for by wounds, as was shown 
above, are to be understood the effects of evil and error in injuring the spiritual 
constitution of man; and by oil and wine are signified and represented heavenly good and 
heavenly truth, both of which are necessary for the cure of spiritual wounds: by setting 
him on his own beast is signified, that he exalted the man to a state of intellectual thought, 
such thought being considered as a beast of burden, for the purposes of bearing, 
supporting, and carrying the higher or interior principles of spiritual life, which are those 
I will cause you to 
of heavenly love and charity. It is accordingly written in the Prophet, 

88 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
(Isaiah 58:14); where riding on the high places of 
ride upon the high places of the earth 
​
the earth manifestly denotes a state of elevated understanding, which, by virtue of its 
connection with the Supreme Good, is enabled to raise itself above all the things of this 
world, however high and eminent they may appear. By bringing him to an inn, and taking 
care of him, is further denoted an additional exercise of charity, in providing for the man's 
spiritual accommodation, comfort, and refreshment. For by an inn is manifestly signified, 
according to its spiritual idea, a state of such spiritual accommodation, comfort, and 
refreshment, corresponding with that which is administered to the body in its journeying, 
by the convenience of a natural inn. 

is to be understood a new state, when the man was to be left apparently to 
the next day 
​

By 
himself, to profit by the instructions, and the comforts which he had already received, 
and, therefore, it is said, that in this case the Samaritan departed from him. For such is the 
state with man, during the progress of his regeneration, that he first receives instruction, 
support, and comfort from another, to the intent that he may make them his own, by 
forming his life accordingly. On this occasion, therefore, he is apparently left to himself, 
to make the most of the blessings he has received, since without such appearance those 
blessings could not be appropriated to him. Nevertheless, that he is not really left to 
himself, but only apparently, is evident from what is further said in the parable, that the 
Samaritan, when he departed, 
took out twopence, gave them to the host, and said to him, 
take care of him, and whatsoever you spend more, when I come again I will repay you, 
for 
​
by taking out twopence, and giving to the host, and saying to him, take care of him, is 
denoted a continuation of the offices of charity, but in a new state; by taking out two 
pence is denoted the communication of truth, for all money, whether talents, pounds, or 
pence, is figurative of the eternal truth, since, as money is serviceable in procuring the 
necessaries of natural life, truth and its knowledges are serviceable in procuring the 
necessaries of spiritual life: and by giving to the host, and saying take care of him, is 
denoted the communication of good, for host, in this case, is not to be understood as a 
person, and thus as a distinct being from the Samaritan, but as principle, and as a principle 
also similar to that represented by the Samaritan, but in a new state, or the state in which 
the man was apparently left to himself. Lastly, by saying, 
when I come again I will repay you, 
is to be understood, that all truth applied to the 
​
purposes of a good life, by the rejection of evil, is finally converted into good, which is 
here signified by the repayment. For such is the case, so long as man is under the leading 
of truth, that, during that leading, good seems to be absent; but when this leading is 
accomplished by the removal of man's natural evils, through combat against them, then 
presently heavenly good is made manifest, and is the glad repayment, or recompense, for 
the truth, which has now completed its office by conducting man to the proper end of all 
truth, which is conjunction with the Almighty in the eternal good of love, of charity, and 
their operation. 

whatsoever you spend more, 

From the letter, or history, of this parable, we are instructed in the duty of regarding every 
man as a brother, and, accordingly, of relieving all his bodily wants to the utmost of our 
power, uninfluenced by any partial consideration of situation and of circumstance, 
respecting either his religion or the country to which he belongs. And, from the spiritual 
sense of this parable, we are further taught the important duty of spiritual charity, which 
consists in relieving the spiritual wants and necessities of others, by instructing them in 
the 
truth, and especially by conducting them to an eternal good. We are taught, further, from 
the example of the Priest and Levite, to take heed to ourselves, lest at any time we pervert 

89 

 
​
​
​
the principles of religion in which we have been educated, by not cherishing those 
principles of heavenly love and charity which are the great ends of all religion, and 
without which no forms, ceremonies, or professions of religion whatever can possibly 
confer any benefit or blessing on man. Lastly, we are instructed by this parable, that true 
charity is incessant in its operation, and employs all possible instruments to accomplish its 
own purposes, regarding only the eternal end which it ever has in view, and which is 
simply this, to endeavour on all occasions, and under all circumstances, to make men 
wise, good, and happy.  

90 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE FRIEND VISITED AT MIDNIGHT. 

Luke 11:5-9. 

And he said to them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go to him at midnight, 
and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves; for a friend of mine in his journey is come 
to me, and I have nothing to set before him? And he from within shall answer and say, 
Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise 
and give you. I say to you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, 
yet because of his need he will rise and give him as many as he needs. And I say to you, 
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and you shall find; knock, and it shall be opened to 
you. 

By the first friend, here mentioned, is to be understood the Almighty and Merciful father 
of the universe, as to the good of His love, thus distinguished from the second friend 
spoken of, who is said to be in his journey, and who, therefore, represents the same 
Almighty Father, as to the truth of His wisdom, since journeying is always applied to 
truth, inasmuch as every man under the leading of truth, is regarded as a traveller, or 
sojourner, truth being the way, or the road, which conducts man to heavenly good. 

Midnight denotes a state of ignorance, which precedes the knowledge of the eternal truth, 
and in which the first desire is kindled to attain the knowledge of that truth. For man is 
naturally born in ignorance, but still with the faculty from God of receiving and 
comprehending the eternal truth. Whenever, therefore, the affection for this truth is 
excited, and begins to operate in his mind from a genuine desire of attaining the truth, he 
is then said to go to his heavenly Friend at midnight. 

It is said that he supplicates his friend to lend him three loaves. By the three loaves are to 
be understood all the principles of heavenly food and nourishment, necessary for the 
formation and support of heavenly life, which the natural man now begins to feel the want 
of; and by lending these three loaves is to be understood, that under the first reception of 
the divine love and wisdom, which are the food and nourishment here spoken of, these 
heavenly principles are regarded as borrowed gifts, because not yet fully incorporated into 
the life. For such is the nature of the first reception, for instance, of heavenly knowledge, 
that like the axe of the son of the prophet (2 Kings 6:5), which is the exact figure and 
representative of such knowledge, it is said to be borrowed, this being the case with all 
truth and its knowledge, until a man sees it by a clear light in his own mind to be truth. 
For every man, at first, receives truth on the authority of others, and confirms it by that 
authority; but, in proportion as he forms his life in agreement with it, he then sees the 
truth by its own radiant Sight, and thus confirms it in his mind by its own divine authority, 
in which case the truth and its knowledge are no longer to be regarded as a loan, or 
borrowed, but as his own property, because incorporated into his life's love.
already seen, what is to be understood by the second friend, when he is said to be in his 
journey. We have now to consider what is meant by this second friend coming to the man 
who makes the supplication. 

We have 

By the second friend then, being understood the Almighty Father of the universe, under 
the character of His Divine Truth; in this character He makes His first approach to man, in 

91 

 
​
  
​
order to gain admission into his heart and life, and thus to dwell with him eternally, on 
which occasion He is here said to come. Thus God makes his first approach to man by 
and in His Holy Word, because His Holy Word is the fullness of His Divine Truth, united 
with His Divine Good; and in proportion as man admits this Holy Word into his 
understanding, and forms it into his life, in the same proportion God is said to come to 
him, being for ever present and one with His Holy Word, and this in such a manner, that 
whoever receives His Holy Word receives Him, agreeably to those words of Jesus Christ 
He that receives you receives Me, and He that receives Me receives Him 
to His disciples, 
(Matt. 10:40). 
that sent Me 
​

These words were intended to describe 
I have nothing to set before him. 
​

But it is added, 
the effect of the reception of the Eternal Truth, in teaching man that he has nothing of his 
own by which he can satisfy its requirement; thus teaching, further, that, of himself, he 
has no love either to God or towards men, such love being that which the Eternal Truth 
requires, and with which alone it can be satisfied. It is to be understood, therefore, that the 
Eternal Truth produces a double effect in the mind of him who admits it, namely, first, by 
teaching him his own wants, and that, in himself, there is nothing either of goodness or of 
truth which can render him acceptable to his Heavenly Father; and, secondly, by directing 
him to that Heavenly Father as the only divine source from which he can hope to receive 
those heavenly and saving principles. 

He from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: 

It follows next in the parable, that 
the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give you. 
These expressions, which seem to indicate an unwillingness or reluctance, on the part of 
the Almighty, to grant the supplication here presented to Him, are spoken in regard to the 
appearances, as they arise in the mind of the natural man, when he is first awakened by 
the reception of the Divine Truth, to discover what he is, in himself, and how, naturally, 
he has nothing in himself, either of saving good or saving truth. For, in this case, he is led 
to imagine that his needs are troublesome to the Divine Being; he fancies, too, that the 
door of communication is so shut between him and his Heavenly Father, that no 
supplication on his part can open it; and, lastly, he conceives that the Almighty is so 
blessed in Himself, and in His own Heaven, as to be insensible to the wants of His 
children on earth, and thus to be unmoved by their entreaties. 

as applied to our Heavenly Father, was designed to teach 
He from within, 
​

The expression, 
this very important lesson, that our Heavenly Father, has His abode within all other 
things, or creatures, thus, that he is the inmost principle of all life, consequently, the 
inmost good, the inmost truth, and the inmost power, according to which idea He is 
called, in the Sacred Scriptures, the Highest, or Most High, because what is high, in its 
spiritual sense and interpretation, means what is within, and, consequently, what is 
highest means what is inmost. 

are spoken according to appearance only; 
trouble me not, 
​

It is plain that the words, 
because it is not really true, in any one instance, that God ever thinks it a trouble to listen 
to the entreaties of His children: on the contrary, such is His divine love towards all His 
creatures, that nothing gives Him greater joy than to hear their supplications, and grant all 
their petitions. The natural man, however, judging from the state of his own mind, cannot 
possibly have any apprehension of this disposition of his God, and, therefore, he 
concludes that his needs give trouble to his Heavenly Father, in like manner as repeated 
need is apt to give trouble to men here below. 

With regard to the door which is here mentioned, and which is said, on this occasion, to 

92 

 
​
​
​
​
​
be shut, we may observe, that there are in every human mind what may properly be called 
two doors, because a door, properly considered, is only a medium of communication. 
Thus, there is one door in every human mind which opens towards God and Heaven, 
because in every human mind there is a faculty of communication with God and Heaven. 
Again, there is another door which opens towards the kingdom of darkness, because in 
every human mind there is also a faculty of communication with that kingdom. By the 
door, therefore, in the present instance, being shut, is to be understood, that the natural 
man, on his first application to his Heavenly Father for divine grace and mercy, is not 
sensible of the communication being open, nor can he be made sensible of it, until, by 
repeated application, the door is opened, and he is thus led out of appearance into reality; 
which reality teaches that the door is never shut, only so far as man shuts it, either by his 
unwillingness to have it opened, or by his ignorance as to the manner of opening it. That a 
door is thus to be understood according to a spiritual idea, is evident from Jesus Christ 
calling himself the Door, by which is manifest, that He meant to describe Himself, as to 
His Divine Humanity, as the grand medium of communication between man and the 
Supreme Divinity. 

The expression, 
has relation to the repose of the angelic 
My children are with me in bed, 
​
kingdom, and of all those who are honoured by the sacred appellation of God's children. 
Thus it is intended to express the appearance that such repose would be disturbed by the 
need of supplication. 

The reason why it is here said, I cannot 
I cannot rise and give you. 
It is added, further, 
​
rise, when it might have been sufficient to say, I cannot give you is, that rising, in this 
case, as applied to the Almighty, is intended to express the elevation of Him, and of the 
principles of His life, in the human mind, since rising can never be predicted of the 
Almighty in any other sense than this. For God, so far as concerns himself alone, can 
never be said either to ascend or descend, and, therefore, whenever, either ascent or 
descent is applied to Him, the term must of necessity be intended to express only the state 
of His reception in the minds of His people. Thus, He is said to ascend, when He is 
exalted in the affections and thoughts of men as the Supreme Good and the Supreme 
Truth, as, on the other hand, He is said to descend and be degraded, when other things are 
exalted above Himself in the hearts and understandings of His creatures. This, therefore, 
is the reason why it is said, I cannot rise and give you, since God, there is every cause to 
believe, cannot give, or communicate His favours, graces, and blessings, until He arises; 
in other words, until he is exalted in the human mind as the Supreme Good and Supreme 
Let God arise, and let His enemies be 
Truth. It is accordingly written, in the 68th Psalm, 
scattered, 
to instruct us, in like manner, that God cannot disperse the evils of man's heart, 
​
or the spirits of darkness connected with those evils, which are man's only real enemies, 
until He is suffered to arise in the power of His divine love and wisdom, and thus to be 
exalted as man's best Friend, Benefactor, and Protector. The expression, therefore, is 
again repeated twice in the following verse, where it is said, 
give him, because he is his Friend, yet because of his need he will rise and give him as 
many as he needs. 

Though he will not rise and 

God, as a Friend, is disposed to communicate to mankind all his most precious gifts of 
love, wisdom, peace, protection, and blessedness, and out of His divine love is ever most 
eager and desirous to impart these gifts even to the most sinful of His creatures. But this 
desire on the part of God is not, of itself alone, sufficient for the communication and 
reception of those gifts, since before they can be communicated and received, it is 

93 

 
​
​
​
​
necessary that man, on his part, should be desirous to receive them, and from that desire, 
should apply to the Divine Giver to impart them. For without such a reciprocal desire on 
man's part, the gifts, if bestowed, would not be blessings, because they would not be 
acknowledged humbly and gratefully to be the bounty of a divine, unmerited mercy, and 
until man is in the disposition to make this acknowledgement, he would only pervert the 
most heavenly gifts to his misery and destruction, by separating them from their Divine 
Giver. For such is the nature of every good which proceeds from God, that it is instantly 
turned into an evil in that defiled mind, which is not disposed willingly and cheerfully, 
and thankfully to confess its Divine Source, and to rejoice in such confession. God 
accordingly waits for man's need before He dispenses His gifts, well aware that if there be 
no need arising from a humble and penitent desire in the heart of the supplicant, the gift, if 
dispensed, would be perverted and abused, and thus rendered a mischief instead of a 
blessing. It is, therefore, written of the wicked, that 
their wealth, are to them an occasion of falling. 

The things which should have been for 

When man unites 
He will rise and give him as many as he needs. 
​

The parable continues, 
his desire with the desire of God, he then finds, not only that all things are possible for 
him, but that he comes into possession of universal property, so as to be enabled to say, 
Father, all mine are Yours, and Yours are 
with his Redeemer, according to his measure, 
mine. 
For such is the nature of the Divine Mercy, that, being willing to communicate to 
​
others all that it has, it waits only for the same will to be excited in others, that they may 
be as much disposed to receive as the Almighty is to give; in which case man comes into 
It is 
the possession of every possible good, and finds those words of his Saviour verified, 
enough for the disciple to be as his Master, and the servant as his Lord. 
By as many as he 
​
needs, therefore, is to be understood, enough, or all-sufficiency, agreeably to the divine 
promise, here it is written, 
again, 
the verse which presently follows this parable, 
seeks finds; and to him that knocks it shall be opened. 

and, 
the desire of them that fear Him; 
​
And thus is verified what is written in 
He that overcomes shall inherit all things. 
​
Every one that asks re-ceiveth: and he that 

[or, fillfull,] 
He will fulfil 
​

The general instruction intended to be taught in this parable is, that the Almighty does not 
dispense His gifts according to the measure of His mercy only, but according to that of the 
desire of His children to receive His gifts, since it is impossible they can be received to 
any saving purpose without such a desire. We are, therefore, further instructed, that it is 
the will and intention of the Almighty first to beget and excite in his children the desire of 
an Eternal Good, because that desire is from Himself, and in whatsoever mind it is truly 
operative, it never fails, sooner or later, to secure the desired good, because God Himself 
is in it, and wherever God is, there must of necessity be also all possible good of love, of 
wisdom, of power, protection, and blessedness. Thus need on the part of man, being 
derived from an infinite mercy on the part of God, and connecting itself with that mercy, 
is sure to introduce the devout supplicant to the possession of all that he needs, to the 
removal of all his wants, and to the satisfying of every desire of bliss imparted to him by 
his Heavenly Father. 

94 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
 
THE PARABLE  

OF 

THE RICH MAN WHOSE GROUND BROUGHT FORTH 
PLENTIFULLY. 

Luke 12:16-22. 

And He spoke a parable to them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth 
plentifully: And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no 
room where to store my fruits? And he said, This will I do: I will pull dow, my barns, and 
build greater; and there will I store all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, 
Soul, you have much goods laid up for many years; take your ease, eat, drink, and be 
merry. But God said to him, You fool, this night, your soul shall be required of you: then 
whose shall those things be, which you have provided? So is he that lays up treasure for 
himself, and is not rich toward God. And He said to His disciples, Therefore I say to you, 
Take no thought for your life, what you shall eat; neither for the body, what you shall put 
on. 

According to the letter of this parable, by ground is to be understood ground, and by a rich 
man one who abounds in worldly property; and in agreement with this sense, of the 
words, the Lord condemns the spirit of worldly covetousness. But, according to the 
spiritual sense of the parable, by 
is not to be understood ground, but the human 
ground 
​
mind, which is as ground intended for the reception of heavenly seeds, or truths; and by 
a 
certain rich man 
is to be understood one whose understanding abounds in the knowledge 
​
of those truths, agreeably to which sense his ground is said to bring forth plentifully. 

By the expression, 
is meant interior reflection and 
he thought within himself, saying, 
​
consideration, which is a species of internal speech, and the source from whence all 
external speech is derived. Interior thought, therefore, is the most real speech, which, 
though not heard by men on earth, is plainly heard, and fully understood, by the Lord and 
His holy angels. 

According to the letter, the purpose of this internal speech in the present instance has 
reference to the man's want of room where to store his worldly fruits; but, according to the 
spirit, it has reference to the man's contracted understanding, which was incapable of 
comprehending and containing all the appearances of good manifested in his will. For the 
understanding of man is a kind of repository, in which all the apparent goods and delights 
of the will are stored up for use and enjoyment. In proportion,
therefore, to the fruitfulness 
of the will, in its apparent goods and delights, is the desire of man to extend the limits of 
his understanding, by virtue whereof those goods and delights may be fully 
comprehended, and thus become at once both more sensible and more permanent. 

It is added in the next verse, that 
build greater; and there will I store all my fruits and my goods. 

he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns and 

Saying, in the first instance, has reference, as we have seen, to thought in the man's 
understanding; but in the second instance, it has reference to purpose in the man's will, 
originating in that thought, so that the Lord would teach us, by this mode of expression, of 
what vast importance our thoughts are, and how they are ever fructifying either in good or 
evil, since a good thought is always giving birth to a good purpose; whilst an evil thought 

95 

 
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
is, in like manner, ever productive of an evil purpose. 

This same mode of expression occurs in the parable of the unjust steward, who, when 
accused of wasting his master's goods, first said within himself, What shall I do? And 
then, presently, replies to himself, I am resolved what to do; where it is evident that the 
question, What shall I do? has reference to the man's thought in his understanding; whilst 
the answer, I am resolved what to do, has reference to the purpose begotten by such 
thought in the man's will. 

The words, 
were intended to denote the 
I will pull down my barns, and build greater, 
​
man's purpose to extend the sphere of his memory and understanding, which are the 
spiritual barns intended to be the repositories both of real and apparent goods. For in 
proportion as a good man extends the sphere of his memory and understanding, in the 
same proportion he extends also the sphere of the enjoyment, of his real goods; and, in 
like manner, in proportion us a wicked man extends the sphere of his memory and 
understanding, he extends also the sphere of the enjoyment of his apparent goods. For 
without memory and understanding no good, whether it be real, or apparent, can be made 
sensible to man, and of course, in the degree in which memory and understanding are 
increased and perfected in man, in the same degree will his sensation of good also be 
increased and perfected. 

It is next said, 
There is here a distinction 
And there will I store all my fruits and my goods. 
​
between fruits and goods, which was not made in the former verse, where fruits alone are 
mentioned, for the term fruits relates to the apparent truths in the man's understanding, 
whilst the term goods relates to the apparent goods in the man's will; and the distinction 
between these fruits and goods in now first made, because the two principles of purpose 
and thought, or of will and understanding, begin now first to be noted. For the case is, 
that, both with a wicked man and a good man, the above principles are for a long time 
confounded and undistinguished, so that the man has no clear and precise views in his 
own mind of the distinct nature of each principle, but in process of time, as man advances 
towards maturity, whether in the ways of wickedness, or righteousness, the above 
principles become more and more distinct, so that the powers and offices of each are seen 
in the most exact discrimination. 

It is further written, 
years, take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. 

I will say to my soul, Soul, you have much goods laid up for many 

To say to the soul is a form of speech expressive of interior thought, and thus it is 
demonstrated that in man there are two distinct principles of thought, the one interior, and 
the other exterior, or the one superior, and the other inferior, and that the man may speak 
from either of these principles, and either of these principles may speak to the other. 
Accordingly, in the book of Psalms, we find the Psalmist frequently addressing his own 
soul, by which is to be understood, in respect to man, the discourse of his external man 
with his internal, and with respect to the Lord, the discourse of His Human, principle, or 
Humanity, with his Divine principle, or His Divinity. Thus, by the expression, 
I will say 
the Lord would teach us the important lesson, that there are in us two distinct 
to my soul, 
​
principles of thought, the one internal, and the other external, and that each can 
communicate with the other, and does communicate, as occasion requires. 

in a natural or literal sense, is to be understood 
much goods laid up for many years, 
By the 
​
that the man abounded with a sufficiency of worldly wealth, to satisfy all his wants during 
his continuance here on earth. But in the internal or spiritual sense of the parable, by 

96 

 
​
​
​
​
​
much goods laid up for many years is to be understood, that the man had acquired a great 
store of knowledges in his understanding, which he unhappily mistook for real goods, and 
which he conceived would be his qualification for the enjoyment of eternal happiness. 
Therefore, he says, further, to his soul, take your ease, denoting that he was fully satisfied 
with his knowledges and apparent goods, without considering at all whether his life was 
in agreement with his knowledges, and whether his apparent goods were real as well as 
apparent. He adds, further, eat, drink, and be merry, to denote that he thought to 
appropriate to himself real good and truth, with all their joys, merely because he was in 
possession of the knowledges, which were intended to conduct, him to such a blessed 
appropriation. 

It is lastly said in the parable, 
required of you: then whose shall those things be which you have provided. 

But God said to him, You fool, this night your soul shall be 

God's saying to him, denotes the judgement or decision of the eternal truth, for all 
judgement comes from truth; and God's saying to him, you fool, denotes that, according to 
the judgement or decision of the eternal truth, all folly consists in storing up knowledges 
of what is good and true in the understanding, without applying those knowledges to the 
purification and reformation of the life, as was the case with this thoughtless man in the 
parable. By God saying, this night shall your soul be required of you, is to be understood, 
that whilst the man was not aware of it, he would be deprived of the heavenly faculty of 
comprehending truth; for by the night, here spoken of, is meant a state of obscurity, by 
which all are finally overtaken who imbibe knowledges with eagerness, but neglect the 
life of knowledge; and by the soul being required, is not meant the separation only of the 
soul from the body, according to the literal idea suggested by the expression, but the 
separation or extinction of all heavenly intelligence and wisdom, which properly 
constitutes the inmost soul of every man who is born into the world. Lastly, by the 
significant question, 
to be expressed, the awful judgement, that the knowledges which the man had stored up 
with so much eagerness in his mind, would all be taken away from him, so as no longer to 
belong to him, this being the eternal law of the divine order, that all knowledge, which is 
not formed into man's life, so as to control his evil affections and corrupt appetites, and to 
conduct him to the love and enjoyment of the Supreme Good and the Supreme Truth, 
shall finally cease to be his property, and be given to others, and this with a view even to 
the man's well-being, since it is better for every one to be deprived entirely of the 
knowledge of truth, than to possess it and not live according to it.  

is intended 
shall all those things be which you have provided? 
​

Whose
​

In the application of this parable, it is written, 
and is not rich towards God. 

So is he that lays up treasure for himself, 

here spoken of, in the sense of the letter, means worldly wealth and 
treasure 
​

The 
property, but in the spiritual sense, spiritual treasure, consisting in the abundance of 
knowledges of heavenly truth above spoken of. And 
by a man laying up this treasure for 
himself, and not being rich toward God, 
is meant the misapplication of such treasure, by 
​
applying it to the gratification of selfish and worldly love, and thus to earthly ends of life, 
instead of directing it to the glory of God by the removal of such earthly ends, and by 
rendering it instrumental in effecting his elevation to heavenly and eternal ends, thus to 
the promotion of eternal happiness, by effecting conjunction with God in life, and love, 
and blessedness. 

According to the literal sense of the parable, we are taught the important and edifying 
lesson, to beware of worldly covetousness, and for this purpose to be content with that 

97 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
share of worldly property which a merciful Providence has been pleased to store upon us. 
And, according to the spiritual or internal sense of the parable, we are taught the still more 
important and instructive lesson to beware of spiritual covetousness: in other words, to 
take heed how we covet and store up the treasures of truth and knowledge, with no other 
view than to gratify our vanity and selfish pride, or to gain worldly honours and 
pre-eminence, when we ought rather to apply those truths and knowledges to the heavenly 
purposes for which, by a kind Providence, they were bestowed upon us, namely, to effect 
our purification from our natural evils, to control our passions and appetites, to open our 
minds upwards towards God and Heaven, to enable us to love God above all things, and 
our neighbour as ourselves, and thus, finally, to restore in us the life, the order, the peace, 
the image, and likeness of our Heavenly Father. Amen. 

98 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

LET YOUR LOINS BE GIRDED ABOUT, AND YOUR 
LIGHTS BURNING. 

Luke 12:35-40. 

Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; and you yourselves like men that 
wait for their Lord, when He will return from the wedding; that when He comes and 
knocks, they may open to Him immediately. Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord 
when He comes shall find watching: verily I say to you, that He shall gird Himself, and 
make them to sit down to eat, and will come forth and serve them. And if He shall come in 
the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those 
servants. And know this, that if the owner of the house had known what hour the thief 
would come, he would have watched, and not have suffered his house to be broken into. 
Be you therefore ready also: for the Son of Man comes at an hour when you think not. 

By the 
are figured and represented the affections of man, thus the things belonging 
loins 
​
to his will, or love; and by the loins, therefore, being girded, is denoted the gathering up 
of the affections out of mere natural and external objects, and directing them towards 
spiritual and eternal ones, agreeably to which sense of the word girding, it is said, 
concerning the Great Redeemer, 
[or Justice], 
Righteousness 
​
(Isaiah 11:5), denoting that His affections, 
loins, and faithfulness the girdle of His reins 
​
which are here figured by loins, were directed towards an eternal object, or the Supreme 
Good in Himself; and that His thoughts, which are here figured by His Reins, were held in 
the same direction, thus pointing to the Supreme Truth. Agreeably to the same language 
of figure and correspondence, by lights are to be understood the thoughts of man, or the 
things of his intellect; and by these lights burning is further to be understood, that the 
thoughts, or intellectual things, belonging to man, shall always be kept under the 
influence of heaven-born love and charity, which is the sacred fire from which all light, 
properly so called, proceeds, and by which alone it is kept alive. 

shall be the girdle of His 

are spiritually to be understood truths derived from good, 
Men that wait for the Lord 
​

By 
and directed towards good; for by men are spiritually meant truths; and by the Lord is 
denoted the Supreme Good. To be 
denotes 
to men that wait for the Lord, 
then, 
like, 
​
​
conformity to truths derived from, and directed to, good, for one thing becomes like 
another, when it becomes conformable to it. 

further denotes, the operation of the 
returning from this wedding 
​

The wedding 
denotes the marriage of Divine good and Divine truth, or of the divinity and 
​
humanity in the person of the Great Redeemer, whose High and Holy name is Jesus 
Christ; and the Lord 
Great Redeemer from His Divine Humanity, when the union of the two natures, the divine 
and human, was accomplished in His glorified Person. His coming and knocking, 
therefore, means His approach and access to man in the power of His Holy Spirit, or of 
His Divine Good and Divine Truth; coming having relation to the operation of His Divine 
Good, and knocking to the operation of His Divine Truth, whilst both expressions united 
denote His continual presence with man, to the intent that He may replenish him with the 
fullness of divine love and wisdom, agreeably to the declaration in an another place, 
where He says of Himself, 
Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any man hear my 
voice, and open the door, I will come to him and dine with him, and he with Me 
(Rev. 
​
3:20). For, in these words, standing at the door and knocking, means the presence and 

99 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
operation of the Divine Good and Divine Truth continually with man
His voice, and opening the door, denotes the reception of that divine good and truth by 
man in his will and understanding; and, lastly, coming to and supping with him, and he 
with Me, describes the mutual conjunction of the Lord with man, and of man with the 
Lord, by virtue of the communication and reception of the divine operation. 

and man's hearing 
; 
​

Opening 
evidently means the opening of the door of the mind, at which the Lord knocks, 
​
that so admission may be given to Him; in other words, that He may be received in His 
own divine love and wisdom. For such is the case with every human mind, that it is 
capable of admitting into itself the blessed influences of heaven and its God, and that it 
really does admit those influences, whenever it is careful to open the door, that is to say, 
to remove the impediments which prevent their admission. To open to Him immediately, 
therefore, evidently means, such a habit of removing the above impediments, arising 
chiefly from self-love and the love of the world, that the Lord, when He comes, may find 
a quick and
either difficulty or delay. 

ready entrance, and thus may communicate His divine blessings without 

It follows, 
watching. 

Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord, when He comes, shall find so 

The term blessed, whenever it occurs in the Word of God, is always applied to denote 
conjunction of life with the Most High, thus to denote the reception of His most holy love 
and wisdom, since nothing but such reception, and the conjunction to which it leads, can 
make a man blessed. Blessedness, therefore, implies the possession of an eternal good, 
and is thus distinguished from that false and short-lived happiness, which is sometimes 
mistaken for blessedness, and which consists merely in the possession of temporal and 
worldly goods. 

The principles which constitute blessedness are the Divine love and the Divine wisdom, 
and, therefore, man is blessed according to his reception of those principles. This is what 
Jesus Christ here declares, when He says, 
Blessed are those servants whom the Lord, 
for by the Lord coming, as was above observed, 
when He comes, shall find so watching; 
​
is meant His continual presence and operation with man by His Holy Spirit of love and 
wisdom; and by watching is denoted preparation on the part of man to receive the 
heavenly influence, watching being opposed to sleeping, and being thus expressive of a 
spiritual state of mind, as sleeping is expressive of a natural state. Man, accordingly, is 
said to watch when he lives under the influence of heavenly truth; as, on the other hand, 
he is said to sleep, when he is under the influence of mere natural truth. It is said, so 
because the term so has relation to what goes before concerning opening 
watching, 
​
immediately, and thus the two words, so watching, have respect to the joint preparation of 
the human will and understanding to receive divine influence. 

It is afterwards written concerning those blessed servants. 
shall gird Himself, and make them sit down to eat, and will come forth and serve them. 
The term verily is here applied to denote both the certainty and importance of what 
immediately follows concerning the blessedness of the servants here spoken of, which 
blessedness is described in the words, 
eat, and come forth to serve them. 

He shall gird Himself, and make them sit down to 

Verily I say to you, that He 

is here to be understood the Lord, who was spoken of in the words immediately 
He 
By 
​
preceding; and by the Lord girding Himself is
further to be understood His intense love, 
​
by which He is desirous to enter into conjunction with those who are prepared to receive 

100 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
 
is signified the influx of the divine 
serve them, 
​
wisdom into their understandings; for by coming forth, when predicated of 

is further denoted, the influx of the divine 
to sit down to eat 
Him; and by making them 
​
good of His love into their wills, for by sitting down to eat is signified the reception of 
that good; and, lastly, by coming forth to 
truth of His
the Lord, is signified His operation of His divine truth; and by serving is denoted the 
office or use of that truth. Thus the three expressions combined denote the fullness of the 
divine influx, by virtue of which all recipient subjects are replenished with all the goods 
and truths of the divine love and wisdom of the Most High. 

second watch 
are, denoted states of spiritual or regenerate life; by the 
two watches 
​
a state of the 
third watch, 
​

By the 
a state in which good and truth are fully conjoined; and by the 
full reception of those heavenly principles; for by watches are meant divisions of time, 
and by times, according to the spiritual idea, are meant states of spiritual or regenerate 
life. Again, by 
resulting, that the above servants were watching; in other words, were prepared to receive 
divine influx. It, therefore, follows, 
preparation to receive divine influx is the certain qualification to receive it. 

is meant the divine inspection, and the discovery thence 
finding them so, 
​

to denote that the 
Blessed are those servants, 
​

is 
what hour the thief would come, 
​

When the blessed Jesus says, 
He evidently means to fix the attention of his 
Know this, 
​
hearers to a subject of great importance; for to know signifies to consider and to 
understand, and whatsoever the Blessed Jesus calls His hearers to consider and 
understand, must of necessity be a thing of importance. What this thing of importance is, 
here spoken of, 
the good man of the house, 
appears from the words which follow; for by 
​
is to be understood the ruling principle in the human mind; the term hours being 
expressive, according to the spiritual idea, of the interiors and exteriors of the human 
mind; whilst the term good man is equally expressive of the ruling principle which guides 
and governs them. In like manner, by knowing 
spiritually to be understood perception or discernment of those false persuasions in the 
human mind, which, being injected by the powers of darkness, would induce man to 
believe that his life is his own, independent of God, and thus tempt him to ascribe merit to 
himself, instead of ascribing it to the Divine Giver of all good. For every such persuasion 
is called a thief in the language of inspiration, because it robs God of His Glory, and 
appropriates that to the creature, which belongs properly and solely to the Creator. It is, 
that 
 owner of the house, 
accordingly, said of
​
would come, he would have watched, and not have suffered his house to be broken into; 
because by knowing 
perception and discernment, that the great enemy of man is ever at hand injecting the 
above false persuasions, and that there is no effectual security against their poison but 
watchfulness, or a state of spiritual thought, by which is to be understood, thought 
influenced by the Eternal Truth, without which thought the exteriors and interiors of the 
mind must inevitably be overrun and desolated by false and infernal persuasions. This 
desolation is expressed in the parable by the house being broken into, or, as it is written in 
the original, dug through, because the term digging is applied to denote the operation of 
thought, whether it be grounded in good or evil. 

is to be understood spiritual 
what hour the thief would come, 
​

if he had known what hour the thief 

the
​

Then follow the admonitory words, 
comes at an hour when you think not. 
By being ready is to be understood preparation to 
​
receive divine influx, which preparation is the effect of watchfulness; and by the Son of 
man coming is further to be understood the Eternal Truth in its connection with its divine 
source, the Divine Humanity of Jesus Christ, which is said to come in two respects; first, 

Be you therefore ready also; for the Son of man 

101 

 
​
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
when a new revelation in made for the establishment of a new church here on earth, in the 
place of an old one, in which it had been perverted, falsified, and destroyed; and, 
secondly, when it is imparted by influx to every individual man, for the purpose of 
making him a church; in other words, of reforming and regenerating him. It is said of this 
Son of man 
to denote that the influx of the 
He comes at an hour when you think not, 
that 
​
​
Eternal Truth with man is perpetual, thus in all states of life, even in those when man is 
least aware of, or disposed to believe in any such influx. 

Then Peter said to Him, Lord, speak you this parable to us, or even 

It is written, further, 
to all? And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his Lord shall 
make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of food in due season? Blessed 
By Peter is here to be 
is that servant, whom his Lord, when He comes, shall find so doing. 
​
understood the faith of the Church, or, what amounts to the same, the principle of 
intelligence in those who are of the Church, inquiring concerning the extent of obligation 
to obey the truth of revelation, and how far that obligation was intended to be confined to 
those to whom the revelation is first made, or to reach to future and remote generations. 
The Lord, accordingly, makes His reply by another question, addressed to the faith, or 
intelligence, of the Church, because He foresaw that, in the proper answer to His question, 
the faith, or intelligence, of the Church, would find a full and satisfactory answer to its 
own question. For when He asks, 
Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his 
Lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of food in due 
season? 
He was well aware that this question would lead to a reply the most edifying and 
​
instructive in the mind of every intelligent being, because every intelligent being must of 
necessity discover in the character of a faithful and wise steward a portrait of every 
excellence; and that, consequently, to consider this character attentively must have a 
tendency to conduct to the possession of that excellence. For a steward obviously means 
one who ministers; and the term is, therefore, here applied by the Blessed Jesus to denote 
the natural man, or mind, which ministers to the spiritual, and which is called faithful and 
wise when it stands and operates in conformity to the spiritual; faithful, when it is in 
conformity to spiritual truth; and wise, when in conformity to spiritual good. Inquiry is 
further made, in these words, 
them their portion of food in due season, 
because when the natural mind becomes a 
​
faithful and wise steward, it becomes qualified to be invested by the Almighty with 
spiritual power and dominion, communicated through the spiritual mind, by virtue of 
which it 
in 
season; 
​
other words, it controls and regulates all the subordinate affections and thoughts, together 
with all the bodily senses and appetites, imparting to each its proper nourishment and 
vigour from the spiritual mind, thus from the God of that mind, according to the 
necessities and requirements of each. It is, therefore, added, 
Blessed is that servant, whom 
to teach the important lesson, that when the 
his Lord, when He comes, shall find so doing, 
​
natural mind ministers to the spiritual, and thus becomes a faithful and wise steward, it 
then partakes of the blessedness of the spiritual mind, being brought together with it into 
conjunction of life with heaven and its God; and it is further
to teach the additional interesting 
has, 
will make him ruler over all that He
you, that He
​
​
​
​
​
lesson, that when the natural
it is then gifted by its Divine Lord with power over all things, because connecting itself 
with omnipotence in humility and obedience, it uses all the gifts of God to His glory, and 
the promotion of that universal happiness which He intends for all His creatures. 

household, to give them their portion of food in due
rules over His
​
​
​

Whom the Lord shall make ruler over His household, to give 

mind becomes, as above, conformable to the spiritual mind, 

Of a truth I say to 

added, 

It is next said, 

But if that servant say in his heart, My Lord delays his coming; and shall 

102 

 
​
​
​
​
​
 
 
​
​
​
 
​
​
 
 
​
 
​
​
begin to beat the men-servants and maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be 
drunken, the Lord of that servant will come in a day when he looks not for him, and at an 
hour when he is not aware, and will cut him to pieces, and will assign him his place with 
the unbelievers. 

saying 
that servant 
​

is 
to beat the men-servants and maidservants, 
beginning
​
​
​
to be. understood the perversion, in such case, of natural scientifics and their 

As the preceding words describe the character and blessedness of the natural mind, when 
it becomes obedient to the spiritual, so these words describe the character and misery of 
the natural mind, when it becomes disobedient, by separating itself from spiritual control 
is to 
in his heart, My Lord delays his coming, 
and government. For by 
​
be understood wilful carelessness, on the part of the natural mind, respecting the divine 
presence and influx; and by 
further
affections, by separating them from the light of truth; and by eating and drinking, and 
being drunken, is, lastly, denoted, the appropriation of what is evil and false, together with 
insanity derived from erroneous persuasions, in consequence of the above perversion. 
Such is the terrible character of the natural mind in its state of disobedience to the 
spiritual; and its misery is further described in the words which immediately follow. For 
by 
in a day when he looked not for him, and at an hour 
is to be understood judgement unexpectedly exercised upon the 
when he is not aware, 
​
above evils and falses of the natural mind; and by cutting 
him his portion with the unbelievers, 
is further to be understood the condemnation into 
​
which the natural mind casts itself, by separating itself from the blessed influences of all 
heavenly good and heavenly truth. 

the Lord of that servant coming
​

him in sunder, and appointing 

Jesus Christ continues the application of the parable in these concluding words, 
And that 
servant, which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not [himself], neither did according to 
his will, shall be beaten with many [blows]. But he that knew not, and did commit things 
worthy of blows, shall be beaten with few [blows]. For to whomsoever much, is given, of 
him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask 
the more.  

is figured 
the servant which knew his Lord's will, 
​

These words teach, in general, the important lesson, that it is better to be ignorant of the 
truth, than to possess the knowledge of it, if that knowledge be not attended with 
conformable life and practice. For by 
and represented the natural mind enlightened by the knowledges of truth; and by that 
servant not preparing, neither doing 
is further described the same 
according to His will, 
​
mind inattentive alike to the requirements of truth, and acquirement of good; and by his 
is denoted the greater misery into which such a mind 
beaten with many [blows], 
being 
​
plunges itself, in consequence of its greater knowledge. Again, by him 
that knew not, and 
did commit things worthy of blows, being beaten with few, 
is figured and represented the 
​
natural mind in a state of ignorance, and in a state of transgression grounded in ignorance, 
which state is here described as less miserable than a state of transgression accompanied 
with knowledge. It is, accordingly, added, 
For to whomsoever much is given, of him shall 
be much required; and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more; 
because by much being given is denoted the affection of truth, and by much being 
committed is denoted the truth itself; and, therefore, the important lesson inculcated in the 
above words is, that in proportion to the affection of truth with which every one is gifted, 
and to the truth itself, which is committed to his care, will be the degree of criminality, if 
he does not profit by what is given and committed to him. 

We learn, then, from this parable, that it is of the utmost importance for every one to set a 

103 

 
​
​
​
 
​
 
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
guard over his affections and thoughts, that so his affections may always have respect to 
an eternal end, and that his thoughts may always be guided by the light of the Eternal 
Truth. We learn, further, that with this view man ought continually to be attentive to 
divine influx, or to the operation of the Incarnate God in his own mind, that so he may 
readily and willingly comply with all its saving purposes of reformation and regeneration. 
We learn, again, that the blessedness of man consists in thus submitting his natural mind 
to the government and guidance of the divine love and wisdom in his spiritual mind, 
because by so doing he conjoins himself with Jesus Christ, whilst Jesus Christ conjoins 
Himself with him, so that they act together in unity. We learn, lastly, that, by this 
reciprocal conjunction, the natural mind becomes invested with omnipotence, by virtue of 
which it exercises dominion over all its affections and thoughts, and likewise over all 
bodily appetites and the delights of sense; whereas, without such conjunction, the natural 
mind perverts all goodness and truth, and, at the same time, appropriates to itself all that is 
evil and false, until it plunges itself into the insanity of every erroneous persuasion, and, 
finally, into condemnation. Let us resolve, therefore, to profit by the above instruction, 
and through the divine grace and mercy to watch well over all the motions and tendencies 
of our affections and thoughts, looking continually to divine influx for government and 
guidance. Thus may we hope that our natural minds will never be separated from the 
divine love and wisdom, but, complying willingly and faithfully with those blessed 
principles, will attain, finally, to that blessed state of dominion of which it is written, 
Amen. 
truth I say to you, that He will make him ruler over all that he has. 
​

Of a 

104 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE FIG TREE IN THE VINEYARD. 

Luke xiii, 6-9. 

He spoke also this parable: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he 
came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. Then said he to the dresser of his 
vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut 
it down; why occupy it the ground? And he answering said to him, Lord, let it alone this 
year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it: And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then 
after that you shall cut it down. 

There is no mention made of man, in the original, but only of a certain one, and by this 
certain one is to be understood the Divine Proprietor of the spiritual vineyard-the Church, 
and of every fig tree in that vineyard, - which proprietor is no other than the Lord and 
Saviour Jesus Christ, or God in His Divine Humanity. 

In the Sacred Scriptures, both of the Old and New Testaments, it is customary to describe 
the principles which constitute the Church under the figure of various kinds of trees, 
particularly of the olive, the vine, and the fig tree; by the olive, denoting celestial good, or 
the good of love and charity; by the vine, spiritual good, or the good of faith and truth; 
and by the fig tree, natural good, or the good of obedience; which natural good is to be 
regarded as the result of celestial good and spiritual good, when these latter become 
operative, and manifest themselves in the natural principle. By the fig tree, then, planted 
in the vineyard, is to be understood the natural principle of man initiated into the truths of 
the Church, and, specifically, the Jewish church as to the natural principle. 

has relation to the Divine love; and 
he came, 
​

The expression 
inquisition of the Divine wisdom. To seek fruit, therefore, on the fig tree, denotes inquiry 
of the Divine wisdom, grounded in the Divine love, concerning natural good in the men of 
the Church, specifically of the Jewish church; and by finding none is evidently to be 
understood that no such good was as yet produced. 

has relation to the 
sought 
​

is to he, understood thought on the occasion 
to the dresser of his vineyard, 
​

By saying 
from Divine truth, attended with perception from the Divine good, (which is here called 
the dresser of the vineyard), that there as no natural good as yet produced in the Church, 
during any period from its commencement to its end, which term is here expressed by 
three years; and by the command to cut it down, is further denoted the entire 
consummation of natural good, in consequence, of the above unfruitfulness. It is added, 
to teach, further, the significative principle that, when there is 
Why occupy it the ground?
​
​
no good in the natural principle, then the natural principle is opposed to, and destructive 
of, the Church. The next words manifestly imply intercession on the part of the Divine 
love in favour of the barren fig
forbearance, until the men of the Church be further tried as to fruitfulness in natural good. 
It is, therefore, said, 
which words 
Let it alone for this year, till I dig about it, and dung it, 
​
involve a further state of probation, both as to the understanding and the will; digging 
having relation to the purification of the understanding by truth, and dunging having 
relation to the purification of the will by good, leading man to reject and eject his natural 
evils, which, when so rejected and ejected, become like dung which renders the earth 

tree, by which is to be understood the exercise of Divine 

105 

 
​
​
​
 
​
 
​
​
fruitful, agreeably to which idea it is written concerning such natural evils, 
to the Midianites, as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison, which perished at 
Endor; they became as dung for the earth 
(Psalm 83:9, 10). It is, therefore, added, in 
​
to 
And if it bear fruit [well] and if not, then after that you shall cut it down, 
conclusion, 
​
denote, that as fruitfulness is the end or design of a tree, and the reason of its existence, in 
like manner, the production of natural good is the end or design of the natural principle, 
and if this end or design be not accomplished, then the natural principle destroys itself. 

Do to them as 

This parable teaches us in the first place, to distinguish between the natural principle and 
the spiritual principle of the Church, and to see that the former was figured by the fig tree, 
whilst the latter was figured by the vine, or vineyard. It teaches, further, that the natural 
principle was created to administer to the spiritual, and that when this administers aright, 
it brings forth its proper fruit of goodness, or good works, by virtue of its connection with 
the spiritual principle, and thus with the Divine love and wisdom which have rule in that 
principle. The parable teaches, in the third place, that in the Jewish church, in particular, 
the natural principle was never in due subordination to the spiritual, and thus never 
produced its proper fruit; the consequence of which was, that notwithstanding the divine 
patience and forbearance, and all the methods used by the Almighty to purify the natural 
will and natural understanding of the men of that Church, they continued rebellious to the 
end, never suffering the divine love and wisdom to govern and direct the lower affections 
and thoughts of the natural mind. Let us resolve, therefore, to take warning by this parable 
of divine reproof, and so to attend to the fruitfulness of the fig tree in our own vineyard, 
that our Heavenly Father may not be disappointed when He comes to gather its produce, 
but may rather find that his digging and dunging have not been in vain. Thus may we 
hope that our natural minds will always be kept in due subordination to our spiritual 
minds, and our spiritual minds to the divine mind, so that when the Lord comes and seeks 
fruit, He may find it, and we may never hear the terrible sentence, 
Amen. 
occupy it the ground? 
​

Cut it down; why 

106 

 
​
​
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE MAN INVITED TO A WEDDING. 

Luke 14:7-12. 

And he put forth a parable to those which were invited, when He marked how they chose 
out the chief rooms; saying to them, When you, are invited by any man to a wedding, sit 
not down in the highest room: lest a more honourable man than you be invited by him; 
and he that asked you and him come and say to you, Give this man place; and you begin 
with shame to take the lowest room. But when you are invited, go and sit down in the 
lowest room; that when he that asked you comes, he may say to you, Friend, go up 
higher: then shall you have worship in the presence of them that sit to eat with you. For 
whoever exalts himself shall be abased; and he that humbles himself shall be exalted. 
Then said he also to him that asked him, When you make a dinner or a supper, call not 
your friends, nor your brethren, neither your kinsmen, nor your rich neighbours: lest they 
also invite you again, and a compensation be made you. 

The invited, according to the sense of the letter, are all those invited to a natural feast, or 
wedding; but, according to the spiritual sense, are all those invited to a spiritual feast, or 
wedding; and since a spiritual feast, or wedding means conjunction of life and of love 
with Jesus Christ, and all are invited to such conjunction who receive the truths of God's 
Holy Word into their understandings, therefore, all such are here denoted by the invited.  

Jesus Christ perpetually marks, or notes, the ruling disposition of all His children, and 
especially of those who, by receiving His Holy Word into their understandings, are 
invited to the marriage. He sees, therefore, how some are of an aspiring and proud temper, 
and how, consequently, they choose out the chief rooms; in other words, how they exalt 
themselves above others, imagining that they merit heaven more than others, and that 
their virtues have in them some superior excellence, which entitles them to some high and 
distinguished place in the favour of the Almighty. 

When you are invited by any man 

The counsel which Jesus Christ gives to all such is this: 
to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honourable man than you be 
invited by him. 
This counsel strikes at the root of all human pride and vanity, by teaching 
​
us that we ought not to exalt ourselves in our own fancied esteem above others, but that 
we should rather delight in exalting others above ourselves, by delighting in their 
excellencies as much as in our own, and by thus wishing for them as high a place in the 
favour and kingdom of God as we wish for ourselves. Thus Jesus Christ would lay the axe 
to the root of our self-love, and, cutting down that infernal tree, would plant in its place 
the Tree of Life, with all the other plants of Paradise, consisting in the love of Himself, in 
charity towards our neighbour, and in all the graces and virtues of humility, contentment, 
patience, forbearance, and well-doing, resulting from that love. 

But Jesus Christ adds, 
lest a more honourable man than you he invited by him. By a more 
honourable man than you, 
according to the natural or literal sense of the term, is meant 
​
one who is more distinguished by natural dignity, talent, and pre-eminence; but according 
to the spiritual idea, one who is more principled in the good of charity, thus, in respect of 
the Jews, it denotes the Gentiles, who, by virtue of the principle of good-will and charity, 
were accounted more honourable in the sight of Jesus Christ than the Jews, when yet 

107 

 
​
​
these latter had the advantage over the former, as being in possession of the knowledges 
of truth derived from the Holy Word. Jesus Christ would teach us, therefore, on this 
occasion, that the principle of charity is, in all cases, more honourable than the principle 
of faith; or, in other words, that the principle of good is more honourable than that of 
truth; for by 
marriage, and the call, or invitation, to the heavenly marriage is always given by the 
knowledge of heavenly truth. 

are here to be understood those who are called, or invited, to the 
you 
​

Jesus Christ adds these further words of caution, 
And he that asked you and him come and 
say to you, Give this man place, and you begin with shame to take the lowest room. 
By the 
​
man here spoken of, is meant the more honourable man, by whom, according to the 
spiritual idea, is signified the principle of charity in relation to the principle of faith, or the 
principle of good in relation to that of truth. By giving this man place is, therefore, 
denoted, that the principle of faith, or truth, ought always to give place to the principle of 
charity or good; in other words, ought always to exalt the latter principles, so as to give 
them entire rule and pre-eminence. Jesus Christ, therefore, would teach us, by the above 
injunction, that the good of charity is the essential principle of His kingdom, and that 
faith, or truth, are only so far good as they conduct to the good of charity, and confirm it 
by giving it pre-eminence over themselves and over every other good. 
Give this man 
place 
is, therefore, an eternal law of salvation to all mankind, since salvation cannot 
​
possibly be attained until the good of charity is
what is called faith, or truth, or knowledge; whereas, whenever faith, and truth, and 
knowledge, submit themselves to the higher rule and government of charity, and thus to 
the highest rule and government of Jesus Christ, who dwells in charity as its essential life, 
in this case all the blessings of salvation are secured, because, in this case, man is 
admitted to the heavenly marriage, which consists in the conjunction of charity and faith 
in his purified bosom, and thus in his conjunction of life with the Living and Eternal God. 

exalted above all the lower principles of 
​

The 
in the Kingdom of Heaven, or at the heavenly marriage, is that of those 
lowest room 
​
who act from principles of faith, or truth, alone, as the highest place belongs to those who 
act from principles of charity, or love and goodness, conjoined with faith, or truth. 

There are two kinds of 
And you begin, with shame to take the lowest room. 
​

It is said, 
shame; one originating in the opinions of men, which may be called natural shame; and 
the other originating in the opinion of God, which may be called spiritual shame. The 
shame here spoken of is of the latter description, consisting in a consciousness of having 
acted contrary to the divine opinion, or, what is the same thing, to the genuine truth of 
God's Most Holy Word, which is the shame of all those who exalt knowledge above the 
life of knowledge, fancying themselves wiser and better than others, merely because they 
abound in high speculations, and have their understandings overcharged with doctrines, 
articles of faith, and religious notions, whilst their hearts and lives are under the influence 
of worldly and selfish love, and as far from evangelical purity as those who are totally 
destitute of all knowledge of the eternal truth. 

Jesus Christ continues His divine counsel in these words, 
down in the lowest room, that when he that asked you comes, he may say to you, Friend, 
go up higher. 
We have already seen what is meant by being invited, and sitting down in 
​
the lowest room. 

When you are invited, go and sit 

according to the spiritual idea, is to be understood the Almighty 
him that asked you, 
By 
​
Himself, whose name is Jesus Christ, and who bids, or invites, to the heavenly marriage, 
the whole human race, by the instrumentality of His Holy Word or Spirit enlightening 

108 

 
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
their understandings; and by His coming is meant His approach to man, and further 
manifestation of Himself in the power of holy love and charity in the will, to make His 
eternal abode with man. For the presence of Jesus Christ with man is two-fold, in his 
understanding and in his will; but this presence is never full, thus Jesus Christ is never 
said fully to come to man until He gains possession of the will, or love, of man, as well as 
of his understanding and thought. 

denote an internal dictate in the 
He may say to you, Friend, go up higher, 
​

The words, 
mind, instructing man, that when charity is exalted above faith, or goodness above truth, 
or, what is the same thing, the things of the will above those of the understanding, then 
man is accepted of his Maker, and admitted into the true order of His heavenly life and 
kingdom; for by the words, he may say to you, is signified an internal dictate in the mind 
of him to whom they are addressed; and by the term friend is denoted acceptance with the 
Almighty; and by going up higher is further denoted, an elevation into the heavenly 
world, which elevation takes place with all those who become. the friends of God through 
the conjunction of charity and faith, or of goodness and truth; and since this conjunction is 
effected principally by keeping the commandments of God, therefore, Jesus Christ says to 
His disciples, 

You are my friends if you do whatsoever I command you. 

It is added, as a ground of encouragement on this occasion, 
in the presence of them that sit to eat with you. 

Then shall you have worship 

By those 
when the heavenly marriage is treated of, as in the present 
that sit to eat, 
​
instance, are to be understood all those in Heaven and on earth who appropriate to 
themselves the heavenly principles of charity and faith, or of good and truth, from Jesus 
Christ, and who thus have living conjunction with that Incarnate God, both in their wills, 
their understandings, and their lives; and by having worship in the presence of these, is 
signified acceptance with them, or such a friendly communication as subsists between 
members of the same family who have the same common Father, and are united with each 
other in the bonds of fraternal affection and tenderness. For such is the case with all those 
who are principled in real genuine charity, that they are the favourites of all in Heaven, 
inasmuch as they breathe the same spirit, eat the same bread, and rejoice in the 
acknowledgement that they derive life perpetually from the same Divine Source and 
Fountain. 

Whosoever exalts himself shall be 
From the application of this parable, where it is said, 
abased; and he that humbles himself shall be exalted, 
we learn that pride, and especially 
​
the pride of intellectual attainments, originating in the acquirement of knowledge separate 
from the life of knowledge, is in the most direct opposition to the love of God, and, 
consequently, most destructive of all spiritual or heavenly life. Such pride, therefore, must 
be abased, because, according to the spiritual idea, nothing is, or can be, exalted, but in 
proportion as knowledge submits itself to the life of knowledge; in other words, in 
proportion as faith bows down to the government of charity, and both to the government 
of Jesus Christ. We learn, further, that humility, and especially the humility of truth and 
knowledge, in their submission to the rule of goodness and purity, is a virtue most 
pleasing in the sight of God, and most beneficial to the eternal interests of its possessor, 
inasmuch as it is for ever joining in the heavenly song, 
Blessing, and honour, and glory, 
and power, be to Him that sits on the throne, and to the Lamb for ever and ever 
(Rev. 
​
5:13), and is thus perpetually introducing man to association with the ever-blessed in the 
Kingdom of Heaven. Lot us resolve, therefore, in compliance with the purport of this 
parable, to guard our souls, through the Divine Grace, against the infernal influence of 

109 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
pride, and especially of that intellectual pride which would lead us to suppose that we are 
wiser and better than others, for no other reason than because we have much knowledge, 
and can talk learnedly about the things of God. And let us resolve, further, to cherish in 
ourselves above all things, through Divine assistance, the grace of humility, especially of 
that humility which exalts charity above faith, and the life of knowledge above knowledge 
itself, because we may perceive clearly that such humility opens the gates of Heaven, 
renders man a friend of God, and introduces him to the societies of the blessed in the 
Kingdom of God. Amen. 

110 

 
 
THE PARABLE  

OF 

THE MAN INTENDING TO BUILD A TOWER, AND OF THE 
KING GOING TO WAR AGAINST ANOTHER KING. 

Luke 14:28-35. 

For which of you, intending to build a tower, sits not down first and counts the cost, 
whether he have sufficient to finish it? Lest it happen, after he has laid the foundation, 
and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to 
build, and was not able to finish. Or what king, going to make war against another king, 
sits not down first, and consults whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that 
comes against him with twenty thousand. Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he 
sends a delegation, and desires conditions of peace. So likewise, any of you that forsakes 
not all that he has, he cannot be my disciple. Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his 
savour, with what shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the 
dunghill; but men cast it out. He that has ears to hear, let him hear. 

Under the figure of a natural 
Jesus Christ here describes a spiritual tower, which, 
tower, 
​
like the natural tower, answers the double purpose of observation and defence. For as the 
natural tower has the double use of enabling those who are in it to discover the approach 
of an enemy, and also to withstand him, in like manner the spiritual tower has also its 
double use, but with this difference, that it enables those who are in it to discover the 
approach of, and to withstand spiritual enemies. Jesus Christ applies the term tower, in 
another parable, according to this same spiritual signification, where, speaking of the 
householder who planted a vineyard and let it out to tenants, He mentions among other 
things, that he built in it a tower, by which is evidently meant a spiritual tower, because 
the vineyard there spoken of is figurative of the Church. 

to build a spiritual tower is to be understood, that the spiritual builder has a 
 intending 
​

By
serious purpose to secure himself against his spiritual enemies, and with this view, to note 
and observe their approach, together with all the arts and stratagems by which they would 
deceive and betray him. 

It is evident that this tower cannot be built of any earthly materials, such as are the 
thoughts, the counsels, and the imaginations of man, but it must be built of heavenly 
materials, such as are the truths, the precepts, the doctrines of God's Most Holy Word, 
admitted into man's understanding, and incorporated into his life, that is to say, into his 
love. For when man thus imbibes and cherishes the truths, the precepts, and the doctrines 
of the revealed Word of the Most High, he then acquires an elevation of thought, which 
enables him to discover the approach of his spiritual foes, together with their qualities, 
their characters, and their artifices; and at the same time, and by the same means, he 
attains the spiritual strength resulting from such elevation of thought, whereby he is 
further enabled to oppose his enemies when they approach. This elevation of thought, 
therefore, is the spiritual tower here spoken of. 

The reason why it is here said of the man intending to build a tower, that he sits down 
first., is that the sitting down, here spoken of, has respect to a state of rest, of peace, and 
tranquillity of mind, for sitting down is a position of the body, figurative of such rest, 
peace, and tranquillity, and is, accordingly, so applied in the Sacred Scriptures. Thus it is 

111 

 
​
​
written in the first verse of the 1st Psalm, 
Blessed is the man that walks not in the counsel 
of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of the scornful; 
from 
​
which words it is evident, that the three bodily acts of walking, standing, and sitting, are 
applied figuratively to denote similar corresponding acts of the mind, walking having 
respect to the thoughts and persuasions according to which man directs the course of his 
life; whilst standing has respect to man's confirmation of such thoughts and persuasions in 
his understanding; and sitting has respect to the same confirmation in the man's will, or 
love, as is the case when he takes rest and finds complacency in such thoughts and 
persuasions. Unless the term sitting had some such spiritual signification, and was so 
discerned in the Lord's divine idea, it is impossible to assign any reason why, in the 
present instance, He should apply the term. 

By counting the 
he counted the cost, whether he had sufficient to finish it. 
​

It is added, that 
cost is here to be understood the taking an account of all the sacrifices necessary to be 
made, on the part of man, before he can attain conjunction of life with his Heavenly 
Father, and thus build in himself the high tower of everlasting protection and salvation. 
Those sacrifices, as it is afterwards stated, consist principally in a man forsaking all that 
he has, this being the full cost of building the above tower, that man should submit his 
own will and wisdom to the divine will and wisdom, man's own will and wisdom being 
alone that spiritual property which God requires him to forsake, because it is the only 
property which, if not forsaken, or, what is the same thing, if not submitted, prevents his 
conjunction with the Supreme Good and Supreme Truth. It is necessary then, that with the 
whole force of his will, signified by sitting down, and with all the powers of his 
understanding, signified by counting, he should make an estimate of this cost, until he 
discovers, that by forsaking his own will and wisdom, he separates himself from 
everything most defiled, miserable, and insecure, and by submitting to the Divine Will 
and Wisdom, he conjoins himself with everything most holy, blessed, and permanent. 

The tower of divine protection is said to be finished when the truths of God's Most Holy 
Word have taken possession of man's will, or love, as well as of his understanding, or 
faith. For whilst truth is merely in the memory and understanding, it is not the tower, but 
only its foundation, nor can the tower be said to be finished, until it is built upon this 
foundation, in other words, until truth is elevated out of the memory and understanding, 
and incorporated into the life's love by a dutiful obedience to all its heavenly precepts, and 
especially by rejecting, as sins against God, all those natural evils, which the truth points 
out as opposite to the Divine Love and Purity. 

All that behold it mock him, 

The mockery of which Jesus Christ speaks, when He says, 
was intended to express the extreme folly of the character which is here described, and of 
his conduct in storing up truth in his memory and understanding only, without applying it 
to the purification and regeneration of his heart and life. The Almighty Himself is 
accordingly described as laughing at, and having in derision, such character and conduct 
(see: Psalm 2:4);
not that we are to suppose that God really laughs at and derides any of 
​
His creatures, but that His creatures, by their thoughtlessness and inconsideration, expose 
themselves to the Divine censure, and are accounted, in the sight of God, both as 
irrational and ridiculous, especially when they are guilty of that most irrational and 
ridiculous of all conduct, the acquiring the 
to practise and incorporate it into their lives. 

without any serious intention 
science of truth, 
​

Jesus Christ, in this parable, under the figure of a tower, intimates the expediency and 
necessity imposed on every one, to build in himself the spiritual tower of divine, 

112 

 
​
​
​
​
 
​
observation and protection, He intimates, at the same time, that this lower cannot be built 
until the cost of building it be seriously and deliberately calculated, which cost consists in 
man's submitting his own will and wisdom to the Divine. Jesus Christ would instruct us 
further, that if this cost be not well counted, the building of the tower may, indeed, be 
begun, but cannot be finished; because the building of the tower is begun by the 
admission of truth into the memory and understanding, but it is not finished until the truth 
so admitted be elevated into the higher region of the will, or love, and it cannot be so 
elevated until man submits himself entirely, and without reserve, to the government and 
guidance of the Divine Love and Wisdom. Lastly, Jesus Christ would teach us, in this 
parable, that there is no instance of irrationality more glaring, and more deserving of 
censure, than this, to store up the knowledge of heavenly things in the understanding 
without suffering that knowledge to influence the affections and the life, by conjoining it 
with holy love and charity, this being the insanity pointed at in the concluding words of 
the parable, where it is said, 

This man began to build, and was not able to finish. 

Jesus Christ annexes to this parable another, concerning 
another king. 
The connection between the two parables is discerned when we look 
​
beyond the letter. The first relates to a state of spiritual protection, or of security and rest 
from spiritual foes; but the second relates to a state of spiritual combat, which is necessary 
to conduct to such rest and security. 

a king going to make war against 

Mention is there made of 
and by these 
a king going to make war against another king, 
​
two kings are figuratively described the principles of truth and error, namely, of truth 
from God by His Holy Word, and of error from the powers of darkness, by the fallacies 
and perverse reasonings which they inject into the mind in opposition to the Divine Truth. 
God, therefore, as being the Supreme Truth, and possessing thereby dominion over all 
things both in Heaven and the Church, is frequently called, in the Sacred Scripture, a 
King, and sometimes King of Kings, whilst His adversary, as being the great liar, and 
father of lies, and possessing thereby dominion in his own infernal regions, is likewise 
called a king (See: Rev. 9:11). Now, all spiritual combat, it is well known, consists in this 
conflict in the human mind, between the heavenly powers of truth, and the infernal 
powers of error, and every man's salvation, or destruction, depends on the issue of this 
conflict. Jesus Christ, accordingly, teaches in this parable, how this combat may be waged 
to the greatest advantage, and, moreover, that everyone who would engage successfully in 
this combat, must 
sit down first and consult, whether he be able with ten thousand to meet 
him that comes against him with twenty thousand. 

By sitting down, as has already been shown in the explanation of the former parable, is to 
be understood a state in which the will, or love, begins to be affected by the truths stored 
up in the memory, or understanding. Thus it denotes a serious purpose and intention 
respecting the warfare which is here treated of, and is designed to instruct us, that we can 
never fight successfully against our spiritual foes, the powers of darkness, without such a 
serious purpose and intention. 

The term consulting relates more to the understanding, or judgement, as sitting down 
relates more to the will, or love, and therefore the two expressions, in their conjoint 
meaning, were intended to teach us the important lesson, that we can never fight to 
advantage against our spiritual foes, only so far as both our wills and understandings, our 
affections and judgement, are exercised on the occasion, more especially in making the 
estimate of the powers which are for us, and of those which are against us; in other words, 
of the power of truth in its connection with the Lord and His holy angels, and of the 

113 

 
​
​
​
​
power of error in its connection with the devil and his angels. 

These powers are differently estimated in the parable, for the powers of truth are said to 
be ten thousand, whilst the powers of error, which are contrary to the truth, are called 
twenty thousand. To account for this disparity in numbers, and discover why the heavenly 
powers, which defend man, should be rated only at ten thousand, when the infernal 
powers, which destroy man, are rated at twenty thousand, or twice the number of the 
former, we must reflect that this is spoken according to appearance, since to the natural 
man it always appears that the powers of evil are stronger than the powers of good, when 
in reality the case is quite reversed, because, in reality, evil has no power when opposed to 
good, and good has all power when opposed to evil. The case, therefore, is, that so long as 
man himself is in evil and its love, so long he gives power to evil, and evil in such case, 
appears powerful; but no sooner does he set himself to oppose evil, from a real hatred of 
its abomination and defilements, and from a real love to the Supreme Good, than evil 
loses, by degrees, its power, and good obtaining the ascendancy, increases, by degrees, its 
power, until at length it becomes all-powerful, and destroys the power of evil. This, 
therefore, is the reason why man, in this parable, is exhorted to sit down and consult 
concerning the strength and ability of the above power, since it is by deliberate wisdom 
alone, and a life in agreement with it, that man is enabled to make the right estimate of the 
omnipotence of his heavenly friends, and of the impotence of his infernal foes. 

that while the 
The consequences of the want of consultation are described in these words, 
By the 
other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation, and desires conditions of peace. 
​
other being 
is to be understood, that the powers of evil and error have 
yet a great way off, 
​
not yet gained a full possession of the man's will, or love, for both good and evil are said 
to be at a distance from man, in proportion as they do not enter into and gain a place in his 
affections. Whereas in the degree that they gain such a place, in the same degree they are 
said to be near. For space is not predicable of spirit, since spirit is no subject of the 
measurement of space, and, therefore, in regard to spirit, all distance is estimated by 
affection, those things being said to be near in which the affection is interested, and to be 
a great way oft when the affection is not interested. 

conditions of peace 

has relation to the man's thought, and desiring 
a delegation 
​

Sending 
has relation to the man's affection; for thought, whether good or evil, is as a kind of 
ambassador to the kingdom of good or of evil, according to its determination; whilst 
affection, which is always one with thought, yet distinct from it, is desirous of confirming 
the terms which thought proposes. In this case, therefore, the two expressions of sending 
a 
denote the conjoint result of the man's 
conditions of peace, 
and desiring 
delegation, 
​
​
thought and affection, in making a compromise with his spiritual foes, the powers of 
darkness, which compromise is signified by desiring conditions of peace; in other words, 
by desiring not to enter into combat against evil and error, but rather to befriend and seek 
alliance with those infernal powers. The peace, here spoken of, does not mean real peace, 
because it is impossible that such peace can exist until man vigorously opposes in himself, 
and successfully conquers, his own natural evils, which hold him in confederacy with the 
powers of darkness; but it means apparent peace, or that false and deceitful rest with 
which some people remain satisfied, without ever considering that they are in the hands of 
a merciless tyrant, and that, in such case, whatsoever temporal peace and composure they 
may enjoy, yet in the end, they will certainly be exposed to all the disquietude and 
torment which must ever arise from unmortified lusts. 

We learn, from this parable, that before we can hope to become regenerate, and to secure 

114 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
thereby a crown of eternal glory, we must pass through a course of spiritual warfare, 
which is here signified by 
We learn, 
one king going to make war with another king. 
​
further, that our success in this spiritual warfare will depend upon our sitting down and 
consulting respecting the powers which are for us, and those which are against us; in other 
words, it will depend on the estimate which we make of the Divine Omnipotence, and of 
the comparative non-ability of those who oppose it. And since we cannot be qualified to 
make this estimate, only so far as we submit our own will and wisdom to the Divine, 
which is meant by forsaking all that we have, therefore, this entire submission is also 
taught us in this parable. Lastly, we learn that if we never enter into such a state of 
submission, and thus never sit down and consult the comparative powers of our heavenly 
friends and of our infernal foes, we shall then become quiet slaves and base dependents in 
the hands of the latter, never exerting the powers which God has given us to regain 
heavenly liberty, thus never entering into any combat against any evil of our corrupt 
nature, but hugging our chains, and calling it peace, when, at the same time, we are under 
the tyrannical rod and restless dominion of all the powers of darkness. 

To the above parables Jesus Christ annexes a third, concerning salt, in these remarkable 
words, 
Salt is good; but if the salt have lost its savour, with what shall it be seasoned? It 
is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill, but men cast it out. He that has ears to 
hear, let him hear. 
Salt, when mentioned in the Sacred Scriptures, has two significations, 
​
a good one, and a bad one, as is common also with almost every other term, and in its 
good signification it is applied to denote the genuine affection of truth, as in 2 Kings, 
2:20, 21, 22, where the prophet Elisha is spoken of as 
by casting salt into it, 
denoting that truth, separate from genuine affection, is not properly 
​
truth, but something perverted and defiled, and that it only recovers its proper quality by 
being united with a genuine affection: and in its bad signification it is applied to denote 
truth without affection, as in Genesis, 19:26; Deut. 29:23; Judg. 9:45; Ezek. 47:11; Zeph. 
2:9. 

healing the water which was bad, 

denotes the affection of truth not genuine, for truth may be 
lost its savour, 
​

having 
Salt 
​
received by man under the influence of various affections. Thus, when man receives truth 
and delights in it for its own sake because it is truth, and leads to conjunction with the 
Supreme Good, he is then said to receive it with a genuine affection; but if he receives 
truth and delights in it, because it may be instrumental in raising his reputation in the 
world, or in advancing his temporal interests, he is then said to receive it with an affection 
not genuine, thus with an affection defiled and perverted, in which case the salt is said to 
have lost its savour. 

salt which has lost its savour, Wherewith shall it 

When, therefore, Jesus Christ said of this 
be seasoned? 
He meant to teach, by this significant question, the great difficulty of 
​
recovering the genuine affection of truth, when it has been once perverted, and thus He 
would lead us to be continually upon our guard as to the quality of the affection by which 
we admit the truth, and to take especial heed that our affection be genuine; in other words, 
that we love the truth for its own sake, and not for the sake of worldly distinction and 
temporal advantages. 

When Jesus Christ further said of the salt which has lost its savour, that it was 
for the land, nor yet for the dunghill, but men cast it out, 
He meant to instruct us that truth 
​
which does not point to God and lead to the practice of what is good, conduces to no use 
whatever, either good or evil, for by being unfit for the land is denoted, that it conduces to 
no good use, such as relates to the benefit of Heaven or of the Church, both which are 

neither fit 

115 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
signified by land. By being unfit for the dunghill is denoted, that it conduces to no evil 
use, such as relates to the infernal kingdom, for by the dunghill is signified that kingdom; 
and, lastly, by men casting it out, is denoted that it is no constituent principle of man, in 
other words, that it makes no part of the human constitution properly considered. 

He that has ears to 

Jesus Christ adds, as a conclusion to the three foregoing parables, 
hear, let him hear; 
thus calling the attention of His disciples, in a particular manner, to the 
​
instruction contained in the three parables to which they are annexed as a conclusion. For 
by him who has ears to hear is meant the true disciple who receives truth with its proper 
affection, that is to say, who loves it and delights in it, because it is truth, and because it 
conducts to the Supreme Good; and by the words, let him hear, is intended to be 
expressed the importance of what precedes, namely, concerning the building a tower, one 
king going to war against another king, and salt. Jeans Christ, therefore, meant to instruct 
us further, by the above words, that nothing is of more importance to our everlasting 
interests than to attend to the building of a spiritual tower of observation and protection; 
also to the spiritual warfare which every Christian must undergo before he can be suitable 
to enter into the Kingdom of Heaven; also to the affection with which we receive the 
truth, taking good heed that it be a genuine affection, or the love of truth for its own sake, 
and not a spurious affection, or the love of truth for the sake of worldly gain, honour, or 
reputation. Lastly, Jesus Christ meant to teach us the absolute necessity of submitting our 
own will and wisdom to the Divine, or of forsaking all that we have, since without such 
submission it is impossible we should either build the spiritual tower, or fight successfully 
against, our spiritual foes, or receive the truth with a genuine affection. 

116 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE LOST SHEEP. 

Luke 15:3-7. 

And He spoke this parable to them, saying, What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if 
he lose one of them, does not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that 
which is lost, until he find it? And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, 
rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbours, saying 
to them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say to you, that 
likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repents, more than over ninety and 
nine just persons, who need no repentance. 

By man is here to be understood the Church, as to the understanding of truth; as in the 
following parable concerning the lost piece of silver, by woman is to be understood the 
Church as to the affection of truth. These two parables, therefore, are in connection with 
each other; the first relating to the good of one who repents, signified by the lost sheep; 
and the second relating to the truth belonging to him who repents, signified by the lost 
piece of silver. The obvious tendency, therefore, of the two parables united, is to show 
that both good and truth, when lost and restored again, are rendered dearer and more 
precious than if they had never been lost. 

Sheep, in the Sacred Scriptures, denote such as are principled in heavenly good, agreeably 
to which idea Jesus Christ calls His disciples 
(John 10:27), and says to Peter, 
sheep
​
(John 21:16, 17). By sheep, therefore, are to be understood goods in the 
my sheep 
​
abstract, and by a hundred sheep, the complex or aggregate of such goods. 

feed 

If the sheep are considered in regard to persons, then by losing one of them is to be 
understood the falling away from good in a Church in general, or in a member of a 
Church in particular. But if by sheep are to be understood goods in the abstract, then by 
losing one of them is to be understood deficiency of any particular good. 

The wilderness, according to a spiritual idea, signifies what has as yet little of life, or what 
is altogether uncultivated. It denotes also an obscure principle of faith and love, and 
likewise a state of spiritual temptation. By leaving, therefore, the ninety and nine in the 
wilderness, is to be understood, that in consequence of a falling away from good, or of the 
deficiency of good, signified by the sheep which was lost, the other goods in connection 
with it were brought into distress and trial, and thus into a diminution of life and power, 
such being the connection between the various orders and genera of goods, that if one 
perish or be lost, all the rest suffer injury, and experience a deprivation in some measure 
of their life. 

By that which is lost, it has been already seen, is meant the good belonging to the man 
who repents; and by going after this good is to be understood, the endeavour to recall it to 
its original; in other words, to bring it back to conjunction with the Supreme Good, which 
is God. For the case with the lost sheep, or the good belonging to the man who repents, is 
this, that it becomes what is here called a lost sheep, by declining from the Supreme 
Good, and imagining itself to be a good in a state of separation from the Divine Good. To 
go after this lost sheep, therefore, is to recall the good signified thereby to re-conjunction 

117 

 
​
​
with its Divine Original; and to find it, is to restore it to that original. 

But it is said in the parable, that 
rejoicing. 

when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, 

By the shoulders, whenever the expression occurs in the Sacred Scriptures, is always 
understood the highest degree of power and energy; and, therefore, by laying the lost 
sheep on his shoulders, is to be understood, in reference to the good which is here 
signified by the sheep, the calling it to its original with all his might and energy. 

The term 
is here applied to denote the joy communicated on the occasion, by the 
rejoicing 
​
restoration, to its Divine Original, of a good which had been separated from that original, 
this being the joy, as we are afterwards informed, which the angels themselves 
experience, and which is declared to be a greater joy than that which results from the 
possession of a good which has never thus declined from conjunction with the Supreme 
Good. 

It is further said, that 
saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. 

when he comes home, he calls together his friends and neighbours, 

here spoken of, as was observed above, is meant the Church, as to the 
man, 
​

By the 
understanding of truth, and the understanding of truth is said to come 
into conjunction with the good from which it is derived, and towards which it pants. For 
all truth is derived from good, and is always seeking conjunction with its parent. Whilst, 
therefore, it is in a state of separation from its parent, it is said to be abroad, and is called, 
in Holy Scripture, a wanderer, or vagabond, but when it returns to conjunction with its 
parent good, it is then said to come. Thus Cain, when he had slain his brother Abel, and 
thereby
extinguished charity in his own mind, was willed a fugitive and vagabond in the 
earth (Gen. 4:14). And thus it is said of the children of Ephraim, when they separated 
knowledge from the life of knowledge, which is heavenly love and charity, that they 
should be wanderers among the nations (Hosea 9:17). 

when it enters 
home, 
​

understood all heavenly principles of understanding 

according to the literal or natural meaning of the terms, mean 
neighbours, 
​

and 
Friends 
​
persons so related, but according to the spiritual idea they mean principles, and those who 
are related and connected according to such principles. Thus by the friends and 
neighbours, here spoken of, are to be
and of life, and they who are connected by those principles. And since all heavenly 
principles of understanding and of life have relation to love and wisdom, or, what is the 
same thing, to goodness and truth, or, what is still the same thing, to charity and faith; 
therefore these principles are what are here respectively signified by friends and 
neighbours. Thus these two terms involve in them all the angelic host, and also all that are 
good and wise here upon earth; for these being principled in heavenly love and wisdom, 
goodness and truth, charity and faith, are properly the friends and neighbours of all those 
who stand in the character of the man here described in the parable, who had recovered 
his lost sheep.  

By calling together these friends and neighbours is, therefore, signified association and 
conjunction with the angelic host, and with all the wise and good here upon earth; and by 
saying to them, 
is meant a 
Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost, 
​
dictate from the understanding of truth in the Church, that all heavenly principles of love 
and of wisdom, or of charity and of faith, ought to unite in the affecting sentiment that the 
good of repentance, or a good restored after it had been lost, is a greater good, and, 
consequently, an object of greater joy than the original good which has never gone astray. 

118 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
​
 
​
​
joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repents, more 

Accordingly, it follows, that 
than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance; 
where by joy in heaven 
​
is to be understood, joy amongst angelic principles; and by over one sinner that repents 
more than over ninety and nine just persons that need no repentance, is to be understood, 
on account of a good lost and recovered, more than over the good which has never 
departed from its original rectitude. 

From this parable we learn, in the first place, to adore that divine mercy, which is ever 
waiting and labouring to call sinners to repentance, and which is disposed to receive the 
wandering sheep back again into its bosom. We learn, therefore, never to despair of the 
tenderness of that mercy, whenever we are willing in sincerity to forsake our sins, and to 
take refuge in the arms of our God and Saviour. And, lastly, we learn, to our unspeakable 
consolation, that whenever we are sincere in doing the work of repentance and conversion 
to our heavenly Father, our sins will not only be remembered no more, but they will also 
be made to administer to our greater happiness in the heavenly world, by rendering us 
more sensible of the compassion, tenderness, and love of our heavenly Father, than we 
could otherwise have been. Let us resolve, therefore, now on, in compliance with the 
above lessons, to hasten our repentance and conversion without delay, not abusing the 
mercy of God by continuing in sin, but rather using it as an encouragement to repentance 
whilst we see it disposed, not only to blot out our transgressions, but also to make them 
subservient to the promotion of our greater happiness, whenever we truly hate and forsake 
them from a real principle

of love towards God and our neighbour. 

119 

 
​
​
 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE LOST PIECE OF SILVER. 

Luke 15:8-10. 

Or what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece does not light a candle, 
and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it? And when she has found it, she 
calls her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found 
the piece which I had lost. Likewise, I say to you, there is joy in the presence of the angels 
of God over one sinner that repents. 

The woman here mentioned, as was observed in the explanation of the foregoing parable, 
denotes the Church, as to the affection of truth, agreeably to which idea the Church is 
frequently, in the Sacred Scriptures, compared to a virgin, and called a virgin, as the 
Virgin of Zion, and the Virgin of Jerusalem (Lam. 1:15, Lam. 2:13; Amos 5:2), and also 
the Lamb's Bride and Wife; and by her having ten pieces of silver, is to be understood, her 
being in possession of all heavenly truths necessary for her purification and conjunction 
with her heavenly Bridegroom and Husband. 

It may be proved from the Sacred Scriptures, that by ten pieces of silver are meant all 
heavenly truths; and this, not only from the general consideration that the knowledge of 
holy truth is frequently, in the Sacred Scriptures, compared to money, and called money, 
as talents and pounds (Matt. 25:14-32; Luke 19:12-28), but also from the particular 
consideration that it is frequently compared with and called silver, from which money is 
(Is. 1:22), 
Your silver is become dross 
coined. Thus it is written in the prophet Isaiah, 
​
where it is evident that the prophet is speaking not of the metal called silver, but of the 
knowledge of heavenly truth signified by that metal. So, again, 
for iron I will bring silver 
(60:17), where it is again evident, that by silver is to be understood the purer dispensation 
of holy truth which was given at the manifestation of God in the flesh, for the prophet is 
here speaking of the blessings to be imparted to mankind by that manifestation. Again, 
Israel, they are even as the, dross of silver 
(Ezek. 20:18), by which words is manifestly 
​
described the perversion of truth by the Jewish nation, in consequence of which they had 
lost, all knowledge of genuine or spiritual truth, which is here called silver, and retained 
only natural or literal truth, which is here called dross. So, again, 
He shall sit as a refiner 
(Mal. 3:3), speaking of the Lord's first advent in the flesh, and 
and purifier of silver 
​
denoting the purification of the understandings of His people from all false and erroneous 
persuasions, by the manifestation of a pure order of spiritual and genuine truth. 

are to be understood all the knowledges of heavenly truth 
ten pieces of silver 
Since by 
​
which constitute the Church, by losing one piece is evidently meant the loss of one of 
these knowledges, in consequence of which the state of the Church was become less 
perfect, pure, and stable, than it otherwise would have been. For the perfection, purity, 
and stability of the Church will always depend on the integrity of truth; in other words, on 
the several orders, genera, and species of truth being preserved inviolable and entire. 

By a candle is to be understood the light of heavenly truth, derived from the Word of God, 
and enlightening the understanding of man. For in all truth there is light, but the light 
varies according to the order of truth from which it is derived. Thus, as in the natural 
world, there are different degrees of light, namely, the light of the sun, the light of the 

120 

 
​
​
​
​
moon, the light of the stars, and the light of a candle, so also in the spiritual world there 
are different degrees of spiritual light answering to the same, and being the effect of the 
reception of different orders and degrees of truth. By the candle, therefore, here spoken of, 
is to be understood the light of heavenly truth of the lowest order, such as is that which is 
derived from the literal sense of the word. 

That the term candle has a spiritual signification is proved in the first place, from the book 
of Job, where mention is made 
(Job. 21:17), by 
of the candle of the wicked being put out 
​
which is to be understood, that the wicked extinguish in themselves the light of heavenly 
truth by their evil loves. Again, it is written, 
(Job. 
When His candle shined upon my head 
​
24:3), by which is to be understood the wisdom which Job received from God. To the 
(Psalm 18:28) 
You will light my candle 
same purpose it is written in the book of Psalms, 
​
denoting also the illumination of wisdom from the Most High. Again, it is written in the 
book of Proverbs, 
plain the word candle is applied to express a spiritual idea. 

(Prov. 20:27), where it is 
The spirit of man is the candle of the Lord 
​

It is said that the woman not only lighted a candle, but swept the house. 
home 
is to be understood, according to its spiritual meaning, in like manner as lighting a 
​
candle; nor can there be any difficulty in discovering what that meaning is, if it be 
considered what is to be understood by a house, according to a spiritual idea. For, in 
agreement with such idea, a house signifies the will-principle of man, because in that 
principle the love of man dwells, which is the real man; in that principle, too, if the love 
be purified, the Lord Himself dwells, and makes His everlasting abode. Accordingly, the 
Church, as consisting of purified human minds, or wills, is called in the Sacred Scriptures, 
the house of God, or of Jehovah. 

Sweeping the 

the house of Israel, 

of 
the house of Judah, 
​

is applied according to a spiritual idea, in the Sacred Scriptures, wherever 
house 
​

The word 
mention is made of the, 
of 
house of Jehovah, 
​
etc.; for by the house of Jehovah it must of necessity be supposed that something spiritual 
is intended to be expressed, since it is impossible to conceive that Jehovah can dwell in 
The Most High dwells not in temples made 
any material building, therefore it is written, 
with hands 
(Acts 7:48); in like manner, by the house of Judah, and the house of Israel, is 
​
not to be understood any house of wood or stone in which those nations dwelt, but the 
spiritual principles of love and wisdom which formed their lives. Jesus Christ also applies 
the term house according to a spiritual idea, when he speaks of one who both hears and 
does His word, and compares him to a wise man who built his house upon a rock, since 
by a house upon a rock is to be understood the good of heavenly love and charity, 
grounded in the eternal truth; as by a house built on the sand, afterwards spoken of, is to 
be understood the will-principle of man not grounded in the eternal truth, but in false and 
erroneous persuasions, which have no coherence or consistency. 

According to the above spiritual signification of house, as denoting the will and its love, 
by sweeping the house is meant the purification of the will from the filthy and unclean 
loves, such as are those of worldly gain and glory, and also corporeal pleasures, when 
they are regarded as the ruling ends of life. For the defilement of the will consists entirely 
in the separation of its loves from the love of God and neighbourly love, and, therefore, 
the purification of the will consists in regarding the love of God and neighbourly love as 
the supreme ends of life, and in bringing all other loves into submission to their heavenly 
influence, whereby other loves also become clean, and the house is thus entirely swept. 

There are other passages in Holy Scripture which speak of sweeping according to the 
The voice of one crying in the 
above spiritual idea. It is written in the prophet Isaiah, "

121 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
(Is. 40:3); and, again, "
wilderness, sweep you [prepare] the way of Jehovah 
​
make level, sweep [prepare] the way, remove the stumbling-block from the way of my 
people" 
(Is. 57:14). Again, in Malachi, "
Behold, I send my messenger, and he shall sweep 
​
(Mal. 3:1). In which passages, to sweep the way denotes to 
[prepare] the way before me" 
​
make themselves ready, and to bring their wills into obedience to the eternal truth. 

Make level, 

The term seeking, when used 
seeking diligently till she find it. 
​

Mention is made further, of 
in the Sacred Scriptures, has relation to the understanding in its search after heavenly 
truth, according to which sense it is said, 
righteousness 
(Matt. 6:33); and, again, 
​
diligently, has relation more to the will, or love, because men are always diligent in the 
search of what they most love, and in proportion to the degree of their love. The two 
terms, therefore, when united, denote the conjoint application both of the understanding 
and the will in their exploration of the eternal truth, since the eternal truth can never be 
found but by the conjoined energy of both those faculties. 

(Matt. 7:7). But the term, 
Seek and you shall find 
​

Seek you first the kingdom of God and His 

denotes perseverance in the search of truth, and 
till she find it, 
​

The additional expression, 
was intended to instruct
us that the eternal truth can never be found without such 
perseverance. It was to instruct us, therefore, that the illumination of truth is not 
instantaneous, but gradual, and that we advance in such illumination in proportion to our 
sincerity in forming our lives according to the degree of knowledge which we have 
received. For, in regard to the illumination of truth, the case is this, that in its 
commencement it is at first faint and obscure, and becomes brighter and brighter in the 
degree in which it is exalted to rule and pre-eminence in the will and understanding. New 
truths are thus successively admitted and formed into the life, and in proportion as these 
are united with their proper loves, they give birth again to other generations of truth, and 
this in a continued series without end. None, therefore, can be said properly to find the 
truth, by retaining it only in their memories, or even viewing it by a clear light in their 
understandings, since the truth is never really found until it affects the will, or love, and is 
thence formed into the life by influencing man's daily conduct and operation. 

We are taught by this parable, that the knowledge of the eternal truth is of the greatest 
importance to man, and that as this knowledge has been in a great degree lost by the 
general corruptions of human nature, therefore, it is every one's duty, as well as his 
happiness, to endeavour to recover it again. With this view it is necessary, in the first 
place, to explore the pages of the Word of God, and to follow the guidance of the 
heavenly light therein made manifest, signified in the parable by lighting a candle. It is 
necessary, in the next place, to cease from doing evil, and for this purpose to explore the 
secret intentions and thoughts of the heart, to discover towards what end or object they are 
principally directed, which is signified, further, in the parable, by sweeping the house. 
And, lastly, it is necessary to exert all our powers of understanding and of will on the 
occasion, and this with an earnestness suited to the immense value of the pearl of great 
price which we seek after, and with a perseverance which will never cease until the truth 
be fully formed and fixed in our lives, as the greatest and most durable of all blessings, all 
which is further understood in the parable, by seeking diligently till she find it. Let us 
resolve, therefore, through the divine grace and mercy, now on to regard the acquisition of 
truth as a possession of infinitely higher estimation and importance than any other, and, 
accordingly, to seek it with all that never-ceasing application to the Word of God, 
continual purity of life, and diligent persevering exercise of our best faculties, which may 
be necessary to conduct us to the attainment of the prize, 

more to be desired than gold, 

122 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
(Psalm 19:10). 
yea than much fine gold; sweeter also than honey and the honey-comb 
​

123 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE PRODIGAL SON. 

Luke 15:11-32. 

And He said, A certain man had two sons: And the younger of them said to his father, 
Father, give me the portion of goods that falls to me. And he divided to them his property. 
And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into 
a far country, and there wasted his sub-stance with riotous living. And when he had spent 
all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and, he began to be in want. And he went 
and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed 
swine. And he would rather have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and 
no man gave to him. And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of 
my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! I will arise and go 
to my Father, and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before you, 
and am no more worthy to be called your son: make me as one of your hired servants. 
And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw 
him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. And the son said 
to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in your sight, and am no more worthy 
to be called your son. But the father said to his servants Bring forth the best robe, and put 
it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: and bring here the fatted calf, 
and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry: for this my son was dead, and is alive again; he 
was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry. Now his elder son was in the field: 
and as he came and drew near to the home, he heard music and dancing. And he called 
one of the servants, and asked what these things meant. And he said to him, Your brother 
is come; and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safe and 
sound. And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father out and 
entreated him. And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve you, 
neither transgressed I at any time your commandment: and yet you never gave me a kid, 
that I might make merry with my friends: But as soon as this your son has come, who has 
devoured your living with harlots, you have killed for him the fatted calf. And he said to 
him, Son, you are ever with me, and all that I have is yours. It was necessary that we 
should make merry, and be glad: for this your brother was dead, and is alive again; and 
was lost, and is found. 

By a certain man is to be understood the Great Father of the universe; and by His two 
sons are here meant to be described two general classes of mankind; the first, including 
those who do not wander so far as others in the way of disobedience from their Father's 
house; and the second, including those who wander, and afterwards return by repentance; 
or, in other words, the first, including those who stand more in original good; and the 
second, including those who attain to what may be called the good of repentance. 

It is said of the younger, that he said to his Father, 
that falls to me. And he divided to them his property. 
The 
​
means a portion of spiritual goods, and not mere natural wealth or property; and all 
spiritual goods have relation principally to the things contained in the two faculties of the 
will and understanding. Thus the younger son, by desiring the portion of goods which fell 
to him, manifested an inclination to possess spiritual property independent of his Father, 

here spoken of 
portion of goods 
​

Father, give me the portion of goods 

124 

 
​
​
thus to separate from his Father the things of his will and of his understanding. 

is meant His life, that is to say, His love and His wisdom, for all the 
living 
​

By the Father's 
life of God has relation to these two divine principles, which God, therefore, in His 
mercy, is disposed to communicate to all His children, and for the reception of which He 
has endowed all His children with the two faculties of will and understanding. 

not many days after, the younger son gathered all together, and took his 

It is said, that 
By 
journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. 
​
gathering all together are to be understood all the principles of his mind and life which he 
had derived from the two grand fountains of his life, the will and understanding; and by 
taking 
dependence on his Heavenly Father, to live to himself and the world, separate from divine 
guidance and governance. 

is further to be understood his departure from 
his journey into a far country, 
​

means the faculty which he had received from his Heavenly Father of 
substance 
​

His 
understanding truth, and thereby of procuring to himself an eternal good; and wasting this 
his substance, in riotous living, further implies, that he nearly destroyed in himself that 
faculty, by immersing it in mere selfish and earthly loves. 

when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land, and he 

It is next said, that 
began to be in want. 
Whenever man, in pursuit of what he calls happiness, or good, 
​
separates himself from dependence on his Heavenly Father, by immersing his affections 
in selfish and worldly love, which is here signified by spending all, he presently finds 
himself disappointed in the expectations he had formed, and that, instead of the happiness 
and good which he had looked for, he meets with nothing but distress and misery, which 
is here signified by a mighty famine in that land, and by beginning to be in want. For the 
term famine relates not only to a scarcity of bread, or nourishment for the body, but also 
to a scarcity of what is signified by bread, which is the food of the soul, and which food is 
nothing else but the divine truth and good of God's Most Holy Word. It is accordingly 
written, that 
(Deut. 8:3; Matt. 4:4). 
mouth of God 
​

man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the 

he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him 

It is added, that 
into his fields to feed swine. And he rather would have filled his belly with the husks 
which the swine did eat: and no man gave to him. 

By that country is here to be understood the region of selfish and worldly love, with all its 
follies and cravings; and by a citizen of that country is implied, every one who submits 
himself to the dominion of such love. 

Swine 
denote the lowest principles of selfish and sensual life; and by sending him, 
​
therefore, into the fields to feed swine, is to be understood, that he was instructed in no 
knowledges but what tended to cherish and strengthen such corrupt principles. 

His being prepared to fill his belly with the husks which the swine did eat, instructs us 
that the knowledges which he had imbibed in this filthy state of his love and affections, 
and by which he cherished and strengthened the sensual principles of his life, were not 
sufficient to satisfy his immortal spirit; and, therefore, it is added, that no man gave to 
him, to instruct us, further, that he was destitute of all light and comfort to be derived 
from the eternal wisdom, which is here signified by man, and was thus reduced to the 
level of a beast, as to all limits belonging to true understanding and rationality. 

And when he, came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have 

125 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
and to spare, and I
bread enough,
​
​
​
and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before you, and am no 
more worthy to be called your son: make me as one of your hired servants. 

perish with hunger! I will, arise and go to my father, 

By the prodigal coming to himself, we are to understand the return of his affections and 
thoughts to their proper centre, which had before been wandering amongst objects which 
had drawn them away from that centre. For this is the case with every thoughtless and 
unconverted man, that he wanders out of himself, by suffering his affections and thoughts 
to seek gratification in mere external objects. Whenever, therefore, persons of such a 
character give way to serious reflection and the admonitions of conscience, they are then 
said, to come, or return, to themselves, because their affections and thoughts, which 
properly constitute themselves, so come and return. This seriousness of penitent reflection 
thus expresses itself in the parable, 
enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! 
For it is made sensible that the children of 
​
God alone abound in true peace and comfort, and that in the ways of sin nothing is to be 
found but a miserable desolation of all true joy. The true penitent, therefore, adds further, 
I will arise, by which is to be understood, an approach and exaltation to the Supreme 
Good of the Divine Love; 
and will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and 
before you, and am no more worthy to be called your son: make me as one of your hired 
servants, 
implying still further acknowledgement and confession of his natural opposition 
​
to the Divine Love, attended with a humble sense of his own deep depravity and 
unworthiness on that account, together with an earnest desire to be admitted to the lowest 
place amongst those who are true servants of their Heavenly Father. 

How many hired servants of my father's have bread 

express that his will, or love, began to be 
he arose, and came to his father, 
​

The words, 
affected by his understanding and thoughts, for the first conviction of sin is usually 
worked in the understanding and thoughts, by which man is led to aspire after the good of 
heavenly love and wisdom; but this good is not attained until the will, or love, begins to 
be affected, and to be made sensible of the blessedness of that good in itself. When this is 
the case, then, there is an accomplishment of that which had before been purposed and 
thought of, and the happy penitent not only says, I will arise and go to my father, but 
really does arise and comes to his Father. 

when he was yet a great way off, his
​

It is written, that 
father saw him, and had 
compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. 
By his being 
yet a great way 
​
off, 
is meant that his affections were not yet in a state to enter into conjunction with his 
​
Father; for distance, according to the spiritual idea, is determined in all cases by the state 
of the affections, insomuch that, where the affections of two persons are congenial and in 
agreement, the persons themselves are near each other; as, on the contrary, where the 
affections are not in agreement and harmony, the persons themselves are proportionably 
remote from each other. The case is similar with respect to God and man, so that their 
distance or remoteness from each other depends altogether on the state of man's affections 
in respect to God. 

The other expressions in this verse denote the different effects and operations of the 
Divine Mercy, together with the various degrees of its approach to eternal conjunction 
with every penitent and returning sinner. The first effect is described by seeing him, 
because God is said to see, as he is said to know, only those whose affections are in some 
state of agreement with Him. The second effect is described by His having compassion, 
this being an emotion of the Divine Mercy towards all who begin to feel a want of mercy, 
and, under the influence of that want, are led to return, in the spirit of sincere penitence, to 

126 

 
 
 
​
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
the bosom of their Heavenly Father. The third effect is described by running, because by 
running is signified the strong affection resulting from compassion, and, therefore every 
one, according to the spiritual idea, is said to run who is under the influence of a strong 
affection, whether it be good or evil. The fourth effect is described by falling on his neck, 
because the neck is that part of the body by which communication is effected between the 
head, or upper region of the body, and the trunk, or lower region. To fall on the neck, 
therefore, is a figurative way of speaking, to denote communication, and in the present 
case was intended to express the new communication opened between the Divine Mercy, 
on the one part, and the heart of a sincere penitent, on the other. The fifth effect is 
described by kissing him, because a kiss, as every one knows, is a token of conjunction by 
love, and, therefore, in the present instance, it denotes a further degree of the operation of 
the Divine Mercy, in conjoining itself by love with the true penitent, and by reciprocally 
conjoining the true penitent with itself. 

We have already seen what is meant by what is written in the next verse, where it is said, 
The son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and in your sight, and am no 
more worthy to be called your son. 
In the two following verses we find, 
​
his servants, Bring forth the best robe and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and 
shoes on his feet; and bring here the fatted calf, and kill it; and Let us eat and be merry. 

The father said to 

The father's saying to the servants expresses that he did not do immediately from himself, 
but mediately by others, the things which are afterwards described. For the subject now 
recorded concerning the returning penitent, is his instruction in those heavenly truths and 
doctrines which were to make him wise to salvation; and this instruction is not taught 
immediately by God, but mediately by His Word, and by the ministers of His Word, who 
are here, therefore, called servants. According to this view of the meaning of servants 
bringing forth the best robe and putting it on the returning penitent, expresses in the 
language of figure, the initiation of the prodigal into the saving knowledges of the eternal 
truth, which knowledges are as a garment, or robe, for the adorning or protecting of that 
a ring 
celestial good of innocence and peace into which he was to be introduced. Putting 
on his hand, and shoes on his feet, 
further describes the conjunction of heavenly good and 
​
truth, both in the internal and external man; the ring on the hand denoting this conjunction 
in the internal man, and the shoes oil the feet denoting the same in the external man. Thus 
both together are expressive of man's regeneration, which is nothing else but man's 
restoration to the order of heaven in every principle both of his inner and outer man, and 
thus his conjunction of life with God. By the fatted calf, is further intended to be figured 
the initiation of the prodigal into the good of celestial love and charity, which good is 
constantly described in the Word of God under the figure of a fatted calf. By eating and 
being merry is, lastly, meant to be expressed the heavenly consociation and joy to which 
the returning penitent never fails to be introduced, when he has put on the best robe, with 
a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet, and when the fatted calf has been brought forth 
and killed. For by eating, according to a spiritual idea, is understood the appropriation of 
heavenly good, and thus consociation with the angelic heaven; and by being merry, or 
glad, according to the same idea, is to be understood the delight arising from such 
appropriation and consociation. 

The reason which is here assigned for thus eating and being merry, is given in the 
following verse, 

For this my son was dead, and is alive again, and was lost, and is found.  

By the son being dead is meant, being spiritually dead, that is to say, dead in trespasses 
and sins; for in the Word of God nothing is called death but alienation from the life of 

127 

 
​
​
​
God, that is from the life of love and charity; and nothing is called life but conjunction 
with God, through a participation of His love. And by the son being lost, is meant his 
wandering in the ways of error, through ignorance of the eternal truth; for in the Word of 
God every one is said to be lost who does not follow the guidance of the eternal truth, and 
suffer himself to be led by its heavenly light to the mansions of eternal day. When, 
therefore, it is said, that the son was both dead and lost, it denotes that he was deprived 
both of the good of heavenly love and charity in his will, and also of the truth of heavenly 
wisdom and intelligence in his understanding. And when it is said, further, that he is alive 
again, and found, it is to denote that he was beginning to recover from this deprivation, 
and to be restored to the possession of heavenly life in his will, and of heavenly wisdom 
in his understanding. 

This is to describe the 
they began to be merry. 
​

It is said at the close of this verse, that 
effect of what had been before said, where it is written, let us eat and be merry; thus it is 
to describe that what was before only in the thought and intention, was now brought into 
the will and act. This is an usual method of speaking in the Sacred Scriptures, and occurs 
particularly in the first chapter of Genesis, where mention is so repeatedly made, first, of 
the divine thought, or purpose, and, next, of its agency and effect, being designed to lead 
us to reflect on the two distinct processes of regeneration; first, whilst truth is implanting 
and growing in the understanding; and, secondly, when it enters into the will or love, and 
is brought into operation and effect.  

But it is written afterwards, that 
near to the house, he heard music and dancing. 

his elder son was in the field, and as he came and drew 

In one sense, by the elder son is here to be understood the Jewish nation, who were 
envious at, the calling in of the Gentiles to the Christian Church, which Gentiles, 
agreeably to the same sense, are figured in the parable by the younger son. But in a sense 
still more remote from the letter, by the elder son, as was observed above, are here to be 
understood those who stand more in original good, and have not wandered so far from 
their Father's house in the ways of sin and error. 

is to be understood, that they who stand more in original good, 
being in the field 
​

By his 
and have not wandered so far from their Father's house, which is the divine love and 
mercy, are in an external state of good, when compared with those who are in the good of 
repentance, which good is here signified by the house in which was heard music and 
dancing. For when mention is made, in the Sacred Scriptures, of a field and a house, by a 
house is signified an interior state of good, and by a field an exterior state, comparatively. 

Music and dancing, like all other natural expressions, are applied, in the Word of God, to 
convey spiritual ideas, which is the case, too, with all the various instruments of music 
spoken of in the Sacred Volume. For all music originates in some spiritual affection, and 
is expressive of, and attended to excite, the affection in which it originates. And as music 
is expressive of some spiritual affection, so dancing is expressive of some corresponding 
natural affection; in other words, dancing is expressive of the agreement between the 
internal and external man. For dancing, we know, is a motion of the feet in concord, or 
agreement, with some sound or tune; and as the feet, in consequence of being the lowest 
part of the body, are representative of the lowest principles of the mind, which are called 
natural principles, so dancing is representative of the motion, or action of these principles, 
as they accord with the higher, which are represented by music. It is, therefore, written in 
the book of Psalms, 
(Psalm 150:4), to denote that man ought to exalt his Maker in all 
instruments and organs 
​

; 
Praise him with the timbrel and dance
​

praise him with stringed 

128 

 
​
​
​
​
​
the affections of his spirit, or internal man, and also in all the actions and energies of his 
external man, influenced by those affections. By the music, and dancing, then, here 
spoken of, are to be understood the affections of holy joy arising from the good of 
repentance, which good is here signified by the house, together with the correspondent 
delight in the external man, originating in that internal joy. 

It is said that 
he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant? And he 
said to him, Your brother is come, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he 
By calling one of the servants, and asking what these 
has received him safe and sound. 
​
things meant, is to be understood an inquisition in the minds of those who stand more in 
original good concerning the joys and delights of the good of repentance; and by asking 
one of the servants, is to be understood an inquiry in the lower principles of the mind, 
called rational and scientific, concerning these joys and delights. And by the servant's 
reply to this inquiry, is further to be understood the assent of those principles to the 
reasonableness of the superior joys and delights annexed to the good of repentance over 
the original good. This reasonableness is pointed out in a forcible manner, by the 
expression, 
the state of the will in its recovery from disorderly love, to the pure and orderly love of 
heaven; and the term sound having relation to the state of the understanding, in its 
restoration from false and erroneous principles of life, to see by the light of the eternal 
truth and wisdom of the Most High. 

the term safe having relation to 
because he has received him safe and sound; 
​

he was angry and would not go in; therefore came his father out 

It is written, further, that 
and entreated him. 
By anger, and being angry, when the terms occur in the Sacred 
​
Scripture, is to be understood contrariety to another, or contrariety of affection; and in this 
case it denotes the contrariety between the affections of those who stand more in original 
good, and those who are in the good of repentance; in which sense God is said to be angry 
with the wicked, not that He feels anything like anger or resentment towards them, but 
that the good, which constitutes His divine nature, is contrary to the evil which constitutes 
their natures. The elder brother is, therefore, unwilling to go in, because they who are in 
original good cannot enter into the joys and delights of those who are in the good of 
repentance. 

By the Father we are here to understand, the divine good of the divine love; and by His 
coming out and entreating him, is to be understood the influx, or influence, of this love 
into those who are in original good, inclining them to enter into the joys and delights of 
those who are in the good of repentance, from the consideration that all such joys and 
delights originate in the divine love, and are communicated in a more abundant measure 
to those transgressors who, having wandered from their Father's house in the ways of sin 
and vanity, are earnest and anxious to return back thither by a vigorous repentance and 
entire conversion. 

But it is said of the elder brother, that, notwithstanding his Father's entreaties, 
answering said to him, Lo, these many years do I serve you, neither transgressed I at any 
time your commandment; and yet you never gave me a kid to make merry with my friends. 
But as soon as this your son has come, who has devoured your living with harlots, you 
have killed for him the fatted calf. 
These words, in a subordinate sense, have reference to 
​
the Jewish nation, and speak of the reluctance with which they witnessed the extension of 
the divine mercy and favour to the Gentiles. They are intended also to teach the perverse 
spirit of that nation, and the undue sense they entertained of their own superior merits and 
deserts. But, according to a more internal view, the words have reference to the temper 

he 

129 

 
​
​
​
​
and disposition of those who stand more in original good, and the sense they also cherish 
of their own unspotted purity, when compared with what they call the defilement of those 
who are in the good of repentance. All such, therefore, tacitly reproach the Almighty for 
not giving them a kid to make merry with their friends; in other words, they are indignant 
at the idea that their joys and delights are not equal to their merits; and thus they charge 
God foolishly with not giving them a recompense proportioned to their services, not 
aware that the reward of obedience is always dealt out in an exact measure according to 
the affection which produced it. 

Son, than are ever with me, and all that I have is 

We come now to the Father's reply, 
yours. It was necessary that we should make merry and be glad, for this my son was dead, 
By the eldest son being ever with his 
and is alive again; and was lost, and is found. 
​
father, is to be understood that they who stand more in original good are ever present with 
its Divine Source, the Supreme Good; and by all that the Father has being his, is to be 
understood further that original good contains in it the all of the Supreme good. The 
Father, therefore, by these words meant to convince His son that he had nothing to 
complain of because he had all things in his possession by virtue of his conjunction with 
his Father. And thus He meant to convince those who are more in original good of the 
blessedness of their state, and that they have no need to envy those who are in the good of 
repentance, since both original good, and the good of repentance, are in this respect equal; 
and that each is ever conjoined with the Supreme Good; and that each also contains within 
itself the all of that Good; thus the all of peace, wisdom, holiness, and blessedness, which 
all is infinite. 

From this parable we learn, in general, the most powerful motives to repentance, and at 
the same time the nature of that heavenly duty, or in what it principally consists. The 
motives to repentance are inculcated in the most endearing terms, grounded in the tender 
mercy of the Almighty, which is here represented as rejoicing more over the returning 
penitent, than over the sinless and innocent child. And the nature of repentance is taught 
us by the description here given of the pattern of all true penitents, who makes his return 
to his Heavenly Father to consist, first, in forsaking the ways of sin and vanity; secondly, 
in elevating his affections and thoughts to the Supreme Good; and, thirdly, in 
acknowledging, from the depth of a contrite heart, the greatness and guilt of his 
transgressions. We are instructed further by this interesting parable, that the beginning of 
all sin is when man quits the bosom of his Heavenly Father to live in the indulgence of his 
own will and wisdom, separate from the will and wisdom of God; and that the beginning 
of all holiness is when man is made sensible of the misery of such a separation, and with 
his whole heart and soul and mind, labours after a reconjunction of all his purposes, 
affections, thoughts, and works, with the Divine Source of his life, his Lord and Saviour 
Jesus Christ. Let us resolve, therefore, from now on, to shun all the ways of sin and 
separation from our heavenly Father. But if, notwithstanding all our purposes to lead a 
good life, we should still in the hour of infirmity fall into transgression, let us yet not 
despair utterly of the Divine Mercy, but, recollecting its tenderness and compassion 
towards the humble and the penitent, let us hasten to confess our faults to our Heavenly 
Father, entreating Him that we may no more offend, but, learning a lesson of wisdom 
from our faults, may thus attain, by the sincerity of our repentance, to a more full 
experience and reception of the Divine Mercy than could otherwise have been attained. 
Amen. 

130 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE UNJUST STEWARD 

Luke 16:1-12. 

There was a certain rich man, who had a steward; and the same was accused to him that 
he had wasted his goods. And he called him, and said to him, How is it that I hear this of 
you? give an account of your stewardship; for you may be no longer steward. Then the 
steward said within himself, What shall I do? for my Lord takes away from me the 
stewardship; I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed. I am resolved what to do, that, when I 
am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. So he called every 
one of his Lord's debtors to him, and said to the first, How much owe you to my Lord? 
And he said, an hundred measures of oil. And he said to him, Take your bill, and sit down 
quickly, and write fifty. Then said lie to another, And how much owe you? And he said, An 
hundred measures of wheat. And he said to him, Take your bill, and write fourscore. And 
the Lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely: for the children of 
this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. And I say to you, Make 
to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when you fail, they may 
receive you into everlasting habitations. He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful 
also in much, and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. If therefore you have 
not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true 
riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give 
you that which is your own? 

A certain rich man means the Lord himself, as to His Divine Humanity, who is called a 
rich man, as being the bountiful source of all divine wisdom, truth, and knowledge. 

Under the name of steward is described the whole human race, so called from the 
reception, by each man, of heavenly truth, or knowledge, from God; for such is the case 
with every one who is born into the world, that he has no truth, or knowledge, but what he 
derives from another, and, therefore, properly, he is only a receiver of truth, whilst the 
Lord Himself is the only Real Proprietor; consequently, at his best estate, he is only a 
steward, whilst the Lord Himself is the only proper Master. 

to his master 
he was accused 
​

It was said of this steward that 
that he had wasted his goods. 
The accusation, here spoken of, relates to a state of temptation, or trial, on which occasion 
man is called to recollection and serious thought concerning his past life, and especially 
concerning the foods which have been entrusted to him by his heavenly Father, and the 
use which he has made of those goods. Such a state of trial, or temptation, is always 
attended by infestations from wicked disorderly spirits, who endeavour to oppress the 
conscience of man, by aggravating the guilt of his crimes, or of all the disorders of his 
life, that they may thus separate him from the Divine Mercy, by suggesting the idea that 
he has sinned beyond the possibility of forgiveness. 

All the knowledges of heavenly truth, together with the affection by which they are 
received, are called goods, and really are goods, and the only goods which properly 
deserve the name, because they alone tend to lead man to the possession of eternal life 
and happiness, by effecting his conjunction with the Divine Source of life and happiness. 
And these goods are said to be wasted, when man either neglects to use them aright, or by 

131 

 
​
​
abuse, perverts and rejects them, since in such case the knowledges of truth, even though 
they had been imparted, and received with affection, are finally taken away from him, 
since it is an eternal law that man shall have no more knowledge in his understanding than 
what he is faithful to the practice of, by rendering it subservient to the purification of his 
will, and the removal thereby of all disorderly love, which separates between him and the 
Divine Fountain of peace. This, therefore, was the accusation here presented to the mind 
of the accused steward, that he had frustrated all the purposes of the heavenly knowledge 
which he had received, and thus made that knowledge void, and of none effect to himself, 
by not forming his life and love in agreement with its heavenly dictates. 

It is written in the parable, that the Lord 

called him and said to him. 

The Almighty is said to call man by every dictate of truth manifested in his 
understanding, and to say to him, when that dictate affects the man's will, so as to excite 
his affection and attention. The two expressions, therefore, are used, as is common in 
other parts of the Holy Scripture, for the purpose of pointing out distinctly the two 
principles of the divine love and wisdom of God, and also the two principles of will and 
understanding in man adapted to their reception. It is therefore said, 
called him and 
​
said to him, 
to show, first, that the Almighty regards man from his divine love and divine 
​
wisdom conjointly; and to show, secondly, that in the present instance the accused 
steward was made sensible of the effect of the divine influence both in his will and in his 
understanding. 

He
​

How is it that I 
The language of the Divine Dictate, in the present case, is thus expressed, 
hear this of you? give an account of your stewardship; for you may be no longer steward.  

In all states of trial, or temptation, when man is accused by evil spirits in his own 
conscience, of having been unfaithful to the knowledge communicated to him by his 
Heavenly Father, there is an internal dictate of heavenly truth leading man to explore the 
causes of his unfaithfulness, which are necessary to be known before they can be 
removed. What, therefore, here appears in the letter, in the form of a severe charge, is 
otherwise in the real spirit and meaning of the words, since according to their internal 
sense they contain nothing but a dictate of the purest mercy, disposing man to 
consideration, thus to sincere repentance and newness of life, by discovering to him the 
hidden sources of his former unfaithfulness and disobedience. 

like the foregoing, in their literal sense, 
Give an account of your stewardship, 
​

The words, 
sound like words of censure and of severity, when yet, in their internal and real sense, 
they are again expressions of the purest mercy, because in that sense they have a tendency 
again to lead man to recollection, and to take account, in his own mind and life, of the use 
which he has made of those heavenly goods, which have been entrusted to his care by his 
Divine Lord and Master. Give an account of your stewardship, is thus a merciful call to 
every man to explore the hidden principles of his conduct, and thus to ascertain in his own 
mind in what instances he has been faithful, and in what unfaithful, to divine 
requirements. 

These words, again, are apparently words 
You may be no longer steward. 
​

But it is added, 
of judgement and of terror, thus of severity and incrimination, when yet, in themselves, 
they are words of the most compassionate mercy, like the foregoing. For by the sentence 
of apparent condemnation, here delivered, the accused person was intended to be brought 
into a state of deeper humiliation and contrition, under a feeling sense of his misconduct 
in the use of his master's goods, and thus of his unworthiness to be entrusted any longer 

132 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
with the administration of those goods. 

It is written afterwards, that 
Lord takes away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig: to beg I am ashamed. I am 
resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into 
their houses. 

then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? for my 

were intended to express a state of internal thought, because it 
what shall I do, 
​

The words, 
is written, he said within himself; for thought is of two kinds, external and internal, and 
man is said to think externally, when he thinks only under the influence of self-love and 
the love of the world, thus under the influence of his external man; but he is said to think 
internally, when he thinks under the influence of spiritual love, which is the love of God 
and of his neighbour, thus under the influence of the spirit of that love in his internal man. 
The accused person, therefore, in the parable, in consequence of the accusations brought 
against him, and of the spiritual trial thence resulting, was now brought to a state of 
interior thought, by which he was led to exercise that wisdom which his Lord afterwards 
commended. From this state of interior thought, therefore, he asks himself the significant 
question, what shall I do? in other words, what methods shall I take to deliver myself 
from my present trial, and to guard against the consequences of the accusation brought, 
against me? What those methods are, appears from the following verse in the parable. 

It has been already seen, that the stewardship has relation to the important trust of the 
eternal truth committed to every one's care, that he may acquire thence the blessing of 
everlasting life, through the pure love of God and of his neighbour. This stewardship, 
then, is said to be taken away, when man either perverts or rejects the eternal truth; and it 
is also said to be taken away, as in the present instance, when man ceases to be led merely 
by the knowledge of truth in his understanding, in consequence of having attained to that 
spirit of love and charity to which the truth was intended to lead him; for when this is the 
case, man is no longer denominated a steward, but rather a friend and child of his 
Heavenly Father, by reason of his having attained to the great end and design of his 
stewardship. And that the accused person in the parable had attained to this end, is evident 
from the words which follow, 
For these words are 
cannot dig: to beg I am ashamed. 
I
​
​
manifestly words of humiliation and self-abasement, which tempers of mind are sure 
symptoms that man is no longer under the influence of selfish and worldly love, but of 
heavenly and spiritual love. 

The digging, here spoken of, is a natural term, which like all other natural terms adopted 
in the Sacred Scriptures, is expressive of a spiritual idea, and the spiritual idea intended to 
be expressed by it, is that of inquiry or investigation of truth, since, as the natural man 
digs in the earth, for the purpose of examining its contents, and discovering its treasures, 
in like manner the spiritual man is said to dig: in his own understanding, to the intent that 
he may there examine and finally discover the treasures of the eternal truth which are 
therein concealed. This, therefore, was the first mark of his humiliation and abasement, 
that he felt himself unable to examine and explore the mysteries of the eternal wisdom; 
and the second mark of the same heavenly temper is expressed in these words, to beg I am 
ashamed; by which words is denoted his further inability to apply for spiritual blessings, 
as is the case with all in a state of trial and temptation, when it appears that heaven is shut 
against them, and that their prayers for divine favour and acceptance are not heard. 

It has been already shown what is meant by being put out of the stewardship, namely, that 
it denotes a state when man is led no longer of truth, and acts no longer under its 
influence, but begins to be led of the spirit of heavenly good of love and charity, to which 

133 

 
​
​
​
 
​
all truth points, and to which it is intended to conduct its happy receiver. Here, therefore, 
may be seen clearly what is further to be understood by being received into their houses. 
For the term house is an expression used in the Sacred Scriptures to denote the interiors of 
the human mind, together with the ruling principle which prevails there. In the present 
case, therefore, it is applied to denote the principle of heavenly love and charity, which 
was to succeed in the place of truth, and to which the man was to be introduced by the 
state of trial and temptation above mentioned. 

The substance of the above resolution is expressed in these words, So 
of his Lord's debtors to him, and said to the first, How much owe you to my Lord? 

he called every one 

This denotes a further state of self-examination, consisting in an exploration of the debt 
which he owed to his Lord. It is said, every one of his Lord's debtors, as if there were 
many, (whereas we find afterwards that mention is made only of two) to teach us this 
lesson of the divine wisdom, that the debts which man owes to his God relate principally 
to his will and to his understanding, and that these, therefore, are the principles which 
stand chiefly indebted to the Almighty, the will being created to receive all the good 
things of his love, whilst the understanding is created to receive all the good things of His 
wisdom. It is, therefore, on this ground principally that man is a debtor to his Merciful 
Creator, because all things belonging to him, such as his joys, delights, and happiness, 
have respect to one or other of the above principles. The question, then, how much owe 
you to my Lord? involves in it an important inquiry respecting every good influence 
which man has received at any time from his Heavenly Father, and also respecting all the 
knowledge of heavenly truth which has at any time been imparted to him in an external 
way through the senses. For the real case is, that every pure delight manifested in the 
mind of man is from above, or from a source out of himself; in like manner every genuine 
truth, or knowledge, imparted through the senses, and elevated into the understanding of 
man, is also from above, and derived from a source out of himself. Until man, however, is 
brought into a state of recollection and of serious self-examination, he is never able to 
make this discovery, consequently he makes no return of the immense blessing which he 
receives everyday from a Divine Hand. The important question, then, 
How much owe you 
to my Lord? 
was intended to lead man out of this dreadful state of thoughtlessness and 
​
ingratitude to his Divine Benefactor, and to conduct him further to the pure and eternal 
joy arising from a humble and grateful acknowledgement of divine mercies and favours. 

The debt and its payment, which are the principle subjects of this parable, are next 
described. 
And he said to him, Take your bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty. Then 
said he to another, And how much owe you? and he said, A hundred measures of wheat. 
And he said to him, Take your bill, and write fourscore. 

a 

and 
a hundred measures of oil, 
​

The debt is here expressed by two distinct terms, 
because the expression, a hundred measures of oil, has more 
hundred measures of wheat, 
​
relation to the good things of celestial love stored up in the human will, whilst the other 
expression, a hundred measures of wheat, has more relation to the good things of 
heavenly wisdom, or truth, stored up in the human understanding. For every man, from 
the first moment of his birth, to the last moment of his existence here below, is 
perpetually receiving from God these precious gifts in his will and in his understanding, 
whether he is aware of it or not; and these gifts are described in the Sacred Scriptures 
under figurative terms, taken from the most valuable and beneficial subjects of natural 
life, as in the present instance from oil and wheat. Accordingly, we find that both oil and 
wheat are used, under the Jewish law, to express spiritual blessings, which are the 

134 

 
​
​
​
​
​
blessings of heavenly love and wisdom, to which all spiritual things have reference. In the 
prophetic writings also the same figurative language, we find, is perpetually adopted, 
insomuch that there is no subject in the visible creation, which is not regarded in this, its 
representative character, and thus introduced to express some spiritual grace, or virtue, to 
which it corresponds. 

It is said in both cases that the measure was a hundred, because a hundred is a term 
applied in the Scriptures throughout to denote what is complete and full, and, therefore, it 
is here applied by our Lord to the measures of oil and of wheat here spoken of, inasmuch 
as these measures are in every sense full and complete with every individual, since every 
individual, as was above observed, is continually receiving those inestimable gifts from 
the Father of Mercies. 

Take your bill, and sit 

The discharge of the debt is expressed by what is said in one case, 
down quickly, and write fifty; 
Take your bill, and write fourscore. 
and in the other case, 
​
The true meaning of this discharge cannot be clearly and fully comprehended but from a 
right understanding of the signification of numbers, as they are applied in the Word 
throughout, and particularly of the numbers fifty and fourscore, which are here applied in 
the parable. For that numbers have a spiritual signification is evident from the application 
of them in every part of the Sacred Scriptures. Thus it must be obvious to the most 
careless reader, that the numbers two, three, five, seven, ten, twelve, and twenty, are 
applied according to some spiritual idea, and can only be understood in reference to that 
idea. On the same ground, the numbers fifty and fourscore are here applied in the parable, 
because the number fifty, like the number a hundred, of which it is the half, denotes what 
is full and complete, and, therefore, is here used by our blessed Lord to denote a full and 
complete discharge of the debt; and the number fourscore, like the number forty, of which 
it is the double, denotes a state of trial and temptation, as is plain from our Lord's 
temptation in the wilderness, the duration of which was forty days, and also from the 
sojourning of the children of Israel in the wilderness, the duration of which was forty 
years. The discharge of the debt, therefore, is described by these numbers, to denote, that 
when, by self-examination and serious exploration of the interiors of his own mind, man 
is fully convinced of the immense debt which he owes to his Merciful Creator, and is 
brought into the humble and grateful desire of paying it, the Almighty is pleased to accept 
this conviction and desire as a full discharge of the debt, but yet with the condition, that 
man shall pass through the several states of trial and purification necessary to wean him 
from his natural self-love, that so he may finally be brought into the humble, thankful 
acknowledgement, that all the gifts which he has received, both in his will and in his 
understanding; in other words, all the good things of love and charity, together with all the 
blessings of wisdom and knowledge, are the perpetual gifts of a gracious and indulgent 
Mercy, without which he would have no sense whatever either of goodness or of wisdom, 
consequently, no sense of true happiness either here or hereafter.  

It is written, that the Lord 
for the children of this world, are in their generation wiser than the children of light. 

commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely; 

The action, in this case, is only apparently unjust, whilst viewed according to the sense of 
the letter; but in reality it was just, and must be deemed just, when viewed according to 
the spiritual sense of the parable; because in agreement with that sense it is the operation 
of the divine wisdom in man, leading him to the full acknowledgement of the immense 
debt which he owes to his merciful Creator, and to the adoption of such measures as were 
necessary for its discharge. The Lord, therefore, does not commend the steward for his 

135 

 
​
​
​
injustice, because he had not really been guilty of any act of injustice, but he commends 
him, because he had done wisely; in other words, because he had done what heavenly 
wisdom dictated as proper to be done under his circumstances. 

Moreover, it can never be true, that the children of this world are in reality wiser than the 
children of light. The children of this world are such as are intent on securing the apparent 
goods of this world, in which attempt they exercise a prudence, in some respects 
apparently superior to the prudence exercised by the children of light in the attainment of 
their object. The Lord, therefore, would teach us, by the above words, to imitate the 
prudence and circumspection of the natural man in his concerns, on all occasions, relative 
to the concerns of the spiritual man. Thus the spiritual man should suffer himself to be 
instructed by the natural man, and to apply the prudential methods by which he secures 
his temporal interests, as a rule for the regulation of conduct in regard to the security of 
the higher interests of eternity. It is according to this view, that the dumb ass, speaking 
with man's voice, reproves the madness of the prophet (Numb. 22:22-31; 2 Pet. 2:16), 
because the dumb ass is a figure of the scientific principle of the natural man, or of the 
wisdom of the children of this world; whilst the prophet is a figure equally striking of the 
wisdom of the spiritual man, who may be, and is intended to be, improved and perfected 
by an attention to the prudence and circumspection of the lower principles of scientific 
knowledge. 

Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that when you 

The words, 
cannot be understood until it be 
fail, they may receive you, into everlasting habitations, 
​
first known what is meant by the mammon of unrighteousness, and what by making 
friends of that mammon. Now the mammon of unrighteousness may be understood in two 
senses; first, as relating to worldly wealth, for by mammon is meant wealth, or riches; 
and, secondly, as relating to spiritual wealth, or the riches of the mind, or spirit; and in 
both these senses the precept, which inculcates the duty of making to ourselves friends of 
it, is most important. For, in regard to the natural sense of the term mammon, it is of the 
greatest concern to man to make natural wealth his friend, and not his enemy, and this 
blessed effect is produced whenever man applies his natural wealth to the beneficent 
purposes for which it is given him by his merciful Creator, such as the purposes of 
providing for the comforts, and promoting the happiness of all those with whom he is 
connected in civil society. But the duty is still more interesting, when regarded in its 
application to spiritual wealth, or to the riches of the mind, spirit, of man; which riches 
consist in the knowledges of what is good and of what is true, as communicated in the 
revelation of the Most High. For that such knowledges are to be regarded in the light of 
spiritual wealth, is evident from our Lord's other parables, where he compares them, in 
one instance, with pounds, and, in another instance, with talents, that is to say, with 
money. It is remarkable, too, that there is the most exact agreement between this spiritual 
money, or riches, and natural wealth, since natural wealth, we know, is for the purpose of 
procuring the comforts and necessaries of natural life, and is of no use whatsoever unless 
it be so applied. This is exactly the case, too, with the knowledges of what is good and 
true, which are here spiritually understood by the mammon of unrighteousness, since, if 
those knowledges are not applied to the purpose of procuring the comforts and necessaries 
of spiritual life, they likewise are of no manner of use or service whatsoever.  

Here, therefore, it may be seen what is meant, in this latter sense, by making to ourselves 
friends of the mammon of unrighteousness. For if the knowledges of what is good and 
true are not applied to the blessed purposes for which they are given, namely, to promote 

136 

 
​
our purification and regeneration, by replenishing us more and more with the love of God 
and of our neighbour, and by thus delivering us from the deadly evils of selfish and 
worldly love, they then become our greatest enemies, being the cause of all our 
condemnation and misery. On the other hand, if we are careful to apply those knowledges 
according to the above purposes for which they were given, they then become our best 
friends, because they are the mediums, under the Divine Providence, of opening to us the 
gates of heaven, and of introducing us into the societies of the ever blessed, by first 
purifying our hearts and lives from all our natural evils, and restoring in us the blessed, 
image of the divine love, wisdom, purity, and peace. It is an eternal law, therefore, 
stamped on the above knowledges, that they must become either man's greatest friends, or 
greatest enemies; since if man forms his life in agreement with them, they promote his 
eternal salvation; whereas if he is careless in the application of them, they then as 
certainly increase his condemnation, according as it is written, 
He that knew his Lord's 
will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to His will, shall be beaten with 
many blows. 

The meaning of the concluding words, 
That when you fail, they may receive you into 
everlasting habitations, 
is plain, from what has been already said of the mammon of 
​
unrighteousness, and of the duty off making to ourselves friends of that mammon. For in 
the application of this mammon, according to its natural sense, as relating to worldly 
wealth, it is evident that this wealth may be rendered instrumental, under the Divine 
Providence, in securing to man an everlasting habitation in the Kingdom of Heaven, 
provided that he applies it in agreement with the purposes and counsels of the Most High. 
The same is true, likewise, concerning the above mammon as understood according to its 
spiritual sense, since it has been already seen, that by the knowledges of what is good and 
true, if man be faithful in their application, he attains to purification from his natural evils, 
and also to a participation of the divine spirit of heavenly love and wisdom; consequently, 
he is received into an everlasting habitation, since every advancement in purification of 
life, through the admittance of heavenly and eternal principles of holy love and wisdom, 
is ever attended with the blessed effect of introducing man into heavenly societies, 
inasmuch as there is every reason to believe, that man's progress in the regeneration is a 
progress also into the mansions of bliss and purity, and into association with the angelic 
inhabitants of those mansions, according as it is written, 
round about them that fear Him, and delivers them; 
and, again, 
​
charge over you, to keep you in all your ways. 

The angel of the Lord camps 

He shall give, his angels 

It is written, further, 
he that is unjust in the least, is unjust also in much. 

he that is faithful in that which is least, is faithful also in much; and 

To be 
is to be faithful to the first manifestation of heavenly 
faithful in that which is least, 
​
truth, or knowledge, in the mind, which is then called the least; because at that time, like 
the grain of mustard-seed, it is the least of all seeds, but presently, in proportion as man 
becomes faithful to it, by renouncing the evils which it makes manifest, it becomes much; 
in other words, it becomes a great tree, so that, as it is written in another parable, the birds 
of heaven lodge in the branches of it. 

here means not to be faithful to the first manifestations of 
unjust in the least, 
​

To be 
heavenly truth in the understanding; in other words, not to renounce and depart from those 
natural evils which the truth so manifested points out as mischievous and destructive. And 
he who is thus unjust in the least, must, of course, be unjust also in much, because he not 
only destroys in himself the first manifestation of heavenly truth, or knowledge, but, 

137 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
likewise, all the products, or fruits, intended by that manifestation, that is to say, all the 
graces and virtues of heavenly love and life, and thus all the blessings and comforts of the 
heavenly kingdom. 

It is added, 
commit to your trust the true riches? 

If therefore you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will 

By the true riches is to be understood internal truth, or truth internally received, and thus 
in connection with its good, that is to say, with Jesus Christ, His life, His love, and His 
kingdom. Jesus Christ, therefore, would teach us by the above significant question, that 
this internal truth will never be communicated to us, only in the degree in which we are 
faithful to external truth, or to truth externally received, as all truth is in its first 
manifestation. Hence, Jesus Christ would lead us to consider the vast importance of being 
faithful to the first impressions of heavenly truth imparted through the senses, since 
without such faithfulness it is impossible ever to attain to the blessing of internal truth, 
and thus to conjunction of life and and love with our Heavenly Father. 

It is, lastly, added, 
give you that which is your own? 

If you have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall 

All truth, at its first manifestation in the human mind, is said to be another man's, because 
he to whom it is manifested has not as yet made it his own, by incorporating it into his 
life, or love, and thus admitting it, not on the authority of another only, but on its own 
authority, by being made sensible in his own mind of its divine origin, and of the divine 
blessing to which it conducts, and with which it is in connection. When Jesus Christ, 
therefore, proposes the question on this occasion, Who shall give you that which is your 
own? He meant to teach us this important lesson, that heavenly truth can never be fully 
incorporated into our lives, only so far as we love it, and delight in it, and thus make it our 
own. He would, therefore, teach us, further, that truth is not our own, merely because we 
assent to it with our understanding, and confirm its external evidences, since if it goes no 
further than our understanding it is in such case another man's, and not properly our 
possession. But it becomes our own by living according to it, and thus seeing and holding 
it in connection with that Divine Being from whom it continually proceeds, and with all 
that host of beings and of blessings to which it was intended to conduct us. 

We learn from this parable the very interesting wisdom to know how to conduct ourselves 
when we are brought into trial or temptation, concerning our Heavenly Father's goods 
which He has entrusted to our cave, but which we have wasted. We learn further the very 
important wisdom of being faithful to the first manifestations of truth in our own mind 
and conscience, by renouncing those natural evils which the truth was intended both to 
make manifest and to control. We are instructed yet further, that we can never hope to 
attain all the blessings proffered to our acceptance by the Eternal Truth, only so far as we 
make it our own, by incorporating it fully into our life and love. Let us resolve, therefore, 
in future, whenever we are called to account respecting our stewardship, to enter into a 
serious examination of ourselves, concerning the use we have made of that knowledge 
which has been imparted to us by our Heavenly Father, that so we may no longer be 
called a waster of His goods, but, by making friends of the mammon of unrighteousness, 
may finally be received into the everlasting habitations of rest and peace, reserved for all 
those who have been faithful in that which is least, and who have thus attained to the true 
riches; also for those who have been faithful in that which is another man's, and thus have 
had imparted to them that which is their own. Amen. 

138 

 
​
​
139 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE RICH MAN AND LAZARUS. 

Luke 16:19-31. 

There was a certain rich man, who was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared 
sumptuously every day. And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at 
his gate, full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich 
man's table: moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass, that the 
beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also 
died, and was buried; and in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and sees Abraham 
afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham,, have mercy 
on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my 
tongue; for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that you in 
your lifetime received your good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is 
comforted, and you are tormented. And beside all this, between us and you there is a 
great gulf fixed: so that they who would pass from here to you cannot; neither can they 
pass to us, that would come from there. Then he said, I pray you, therefore, father, that 
you would send him to my father's house, for I have five brethren, that he may testify to 
them, lest they also come into this place of torment. Abraham says to him, They have 
Moses and the Prophets; let them hear them. And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if 
one went to them from the dead, they will repent. And he said to him, If they hear not 
Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one rose from the dead.  

A certain rich man, 
in a restricted or historical sense, here designates the Jewish nation; 
​
but in a more extended or spiritual sense it means all who a re in possession of the 
knowledges of revealed truth, or the Word of God, and who are, therefore, said to be 
clothed in purple and fine linen; purple denoting more the good of that Word, and fine 
linen its truth; they are further described, as faring sumptuously every day, to denote that, 
on all occasions, they have the opportunity of incorporating into their lives those heavenly 
and eternal principles. 

in a restricted or historical sense, denotes the Gentiles, who 
beggar named Lazarus, 
​

The 
are called beggars, because they were not in possession of the Eternal Truth, like the 
Jews; but in a more extended or spiritual sense, by the beggar, here mentioned, are to be 
understood all who are without the knowledge of revealed truth, and yet are in the desire 
of that knowledge. All these are said to be laid at the rich man's gate, because they are in 
the affection of truth, and desirous to enter into the possession of it: they are also 
described as being full of sores, inasmuch as being destitute of the Eternal Truth, they are 
infested with false principles and persuasions, which are in many cases contrary to the 
truth: they are again described as 
desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the 
since being in the affection or love of truth, they wish to be fed or 
rich man's table, 
​
nourished by it in all the virtues and graces of a pure and holy life. And, lastly, it is said of 
them, that 
who, from a state of natural good, were desirous of preventing the perversion of truth, and 
thus of restoring them to the health and strength of divine life and order. 

to denote their association with those 
the dogs came and licked their sores, 
​

It is said in the parable, that 

the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into 

140 

 
​
​
​
​
Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried. 

Dying means removal from a natural state of life into a spiritual state of life; and being 
carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom means, introduction to eternal happiness in 
that state, for, by Abraham is here manifestly meant the Lord, as in other passages of the 
Sacred Scriptures; and by his bosom is therefore meant the divine love, with all the 
blessedness which it communicates. The beloved disciple John was therefore said to lie in 
the Lord's bosom, because he was principled in heavenly love and charity, and in all the 
good works to which they give birth. 

The rich man dying, denotes his removal also from a natural state of life into a spiritual 
state of life; but inasmuch as, from the history of this rich man, it is manifest that he was 
principled in knowledge, but not in the life of knowledge, which is love and charity, 
therefore, it is said that he was buried, to denote that all his knowledge perished with him, 
this being the case with all those who have their understandings enlightened by the 
Eternal Truth, whilst their wills remain unpurified through a criminal neglect of the 
application of that truth to the purposes for which it was given. In the same view, it is 
written of the unfaithful servant, who had neglected to improve his talent, 
the talent, and give it to him that has ten talents. 
It is added, that 
​
eyes, being in torments, and sees Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.  

in hell he lifted up his 

take from him 

By hell is to be understood a state of separation from everything that is wise and good, 
thus from the divine presence of the Most High; and by his lifting up his eyes in this state, 
being in torments, is further to be understood the man's thought or reflection about his 
state, in consequence of the misery and wretchedness in which he found himself. It is, 
therefore, added, that he saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom, to denote that 
he perceived his distance and separation from the Lord himself, signified by Abraham, 
and from all the consolations of his mercy and love, signified by Lazarus in his bosom. 

But it is further written, that 
he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and 
send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue, for I am 
It may be asked how the rich man's prayer for divine mercy can 
tormented in this flame. 
​
be reconciled with the fact of his continuing in torment, since it is reasonable to suppose 
that his prayer would be heard by the Father of Mercies, and that relief from torment 
would be afforded accordingly. 

This difficulty can only be removed by supposing what seems to have been really the 
case, that the rich man's prayer, on this occasion, did not proceed from any good desire 
grounded in a sense of the divine love and mercy, but from his present torment, and that 
consequently it was the prayer of compulsion, not of freedom, and therefore could not be 
granted, since the Almighty is affected by no prayers, and hears none, but what proceed 
from perfect freedom, which freedom is the result of the operation of divine mercy and 
love in the penitent and obedient bosom. 

The reason why the rich man petitions that Lazarus may dip the tip of his finger in water, 
and cool his tongue, can only be seen from the consideration of what is here to be 
understood by water, and by cooling the tongue; from which it will be manifest, that by 
water is meant truth, which the rich man, in his life time, had been accustomed to pervert 
and falsify, and that this was the ground of his present petition, that he might still be 
allowed the satisfaction in which he had before indulged, of perverting and falsifying the 
truth, and thus of cooling his tongue. For by the tongue of this rich man is to be 
understood the power or faculty of thus perverting and falsifying all the knowledges of 

141 

 
​
​
​
truth which he had admitted into his understanding, and since he was no longer permitted 
to exercise this power or faculty, therefore he says, 
By the 
I am tormented in this flame. 
​
flame, however, here spoken of, is not literally to be understood the flame arising from a 
common fire, as in this world, but the flame of this rich man's craving, which was nothing 
else but the infernal lust of continuing to pervert and falsify all heavenly truth, as he had 
been accustomed to do in the life of the body. 

It is written, further, that 
Abraham said, Son, remember that you in your lifetime received 
your good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things; but now he is comforted, and you are 
tormented. 

The good things which the rich man is here said to have received, are not real good things, 
but apparent good things, or such as appeared good at the time to the man himself, on 
which account they are called your good things. For such is the difference between real 
good things and apparent good things, that the former are what man receives, not from 
himself merely, but from the Giver of all good, with whom also the receiver connects 
them, acknowledging them with gratitude to be the gifts of his mercy; whereas apparent 
good things are those which man separates from the Divine Giver, and thus calls his own, 
independent of the mercy from which he received them. The like is true of the evil things 
which Lazarus is said to have received, inasmuch as evil things, like good things, are both 
real and apparent; real evils being such as man brings upon himself by separating his love 
and affection, consequently his thoughts and persuasions, from the Source of all good, 
whilst apparent evil things are of an external nature, being such as are permitted of the 
Divine Providence to afflict even those who are in the real desire of turning away from all 
evil, and who, consequently, in the end, obtain deliverance from all evil. It is therefore 
added, 
received apparent evil things in the present life are admitted in the life after death to a 
participation and enjoyment of real goods; whilst they, who in the life of the body have 
received only apparent good things, are deprived of those blessings after separation from 
the body, and are plunged into real evil things, in consequence of a separation from all 
real good of heavenly love and life. 

to instruct us, that all who have 
now he is comforted, and you are tormented, 
​

But Abraham adds, 
they who would pass from here to you cannot; neither can they pass to us that would 
come from there. 

Beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that 

This great gulf describes the barrier of eternal separation between one kingdom and the 
other, which is of such a nature as to render it impossible for the inhabitants of the happy 
kingdom to become inhabitants of the miserable kingdom, and likewise for the inhabitants 
of the miserable kingdom to become inhabitants of the happy kingdom. This gulf, it is 
possible, may be passed by man during his abode in this world, and every man in reality 
does pass it according to the determination of his free-will, whether it incline to good or 
evil. But it is well to be considered and understood, that when man quits the terrestrial 
body and enters into the spiritual or eternal world, his lot is then irrevocably fixed, nor is 
it possible for him then to change the ruling love which he has acquired by the exercise of 
his freedom here below. It is, therefore, said, so 
you cannot; neither can they pass to us that would come from there, 
to instruct all 
​
mankind in this important truth, that the present life is allowed them for the purpose of 
fixing their eternal destination, and that every one, therefore, has it now in his power 
either to become a blessed angel, to live for ever happy amongst kindred angels, or to 
become a miserable infernal, to take up his eternal abode amongst the spirits of darkness. 

that they who would pass from here to 

142 

 
​
​
​
​
​
It is further written of the rich man, that he said, 
would send him to my father's house, for I have five brethren, that be may testify to them, 
lest they also come into this place of torment. 

I pray you, therefore, Father, that you 

By the father's house and five brethren are to be understood, all those who are spiritually 
rich, or who abound in the knowledges of truth, but yet are in evil of life, in consequence 
of not applying those knowledges to the purifying purposes for which they were imparted. 

It appears at first sight that the rich man, in this instance, was principled in good-will and 
charity, since he was desirous of preventing others from being exposed to the same misery 
with himself. 

In reality, however, his petition was not grounded in charity, but in self-love, or a desire 
to prevent the increase of his own torment. For as in the kingdom of the blessed, every 
increase of its inhabitants is an addition to the bliss of each individual, so in the kingdom 
of the miserable there is reason to suppose that every increase of its inhabitants adds both 
to the general misery, and to that of every individual. On any other principle it is difficult 
to account for the anxiety here expressed by the rich man to prevent his brethren coming 
to the same place of

torment with himself. 
​

It is written, in the conclusion, that 
Prophets; let them hear them. And he said, Nay, father Abraham; but if one went to them 
from the dead, they would repent, And he said to him, if they hear not Moses and the 
Prophets, neither will they be persuaded if one rose from the dead. 

Abraham said to him, they have Moses and the 

We learn from these words that the revelation of the eternal truth in the Word of God is 
the only source of genuine faith, or of a right belief in God and in the great realities of His 
kingdom; and that if men do not suffer themselves to be persuaded by the evidence of 
truth itself, they will not be persuaded by any other evidence or testimony whatsoever. 
We learn, therefore, further, that it is a groundless imagination to suppose that men may 
be converted to a right faith and a corresponding life by visions, by miracles, or by any 
other extraordinary interposition whatsoever, since if a right faith and a corresponding life 
could be effected by these means, there is every reason to suppose that the Divine Mercy 
would not fail to apply them for that salutary purpose. We learn, therefore, lastly, that in 
order to effect our conversion to God, and our full belief in the realities of his kingdom, 
we ought to study well the pages of the eternal truth, which contain all possible fullness of 
evidence and demonstration. 

This parable teaches us how great is the temptation to which we are exposed from the 
possession of riches, whether they be natural or spiritual, since, in either case, if they are 
not rightly applied, they may become injurious to our eternal happiness. Not that it is to 
be understood that a rich man, whether in a natural or spiritual view, is excluded from the 
kingdom of heaven, any more than a poor man, or that poverty is a surer introduction to 
heaven than riches. It is only to be understood that the abuse of riches, and especially of 
spiritual riches, which are the knowledges of truth, is in all cases, dangerous. We learn, 
therefore, especially from this parable, to be upon our guard in respect to the use of 
spiritual riches, that so we may always apply the knowledge of the eternal truth, which we 
have received, to the purposes of purification and real reformation of heart and life. 
Lastly, we are taught where to look for the proper evidence of things invisible, and that it 
is only to be found in the Word of God itself, or in the testimony ot the eternal truth. Let 
us resolve, therefore, from now on, no longer to abuse the knowledge which we have 
received, either by perversion or misapplication; and let us further resolve never to 

143 

 
​
​
 
​
indulge the foolish imagination that our conversion may be worked either by visions, by 
signs, or even by miracles, but rather to look for that highest of all testimonies respecting 
the eternal world which God has vouchsafed to communicate in His Holy Word, and 
which, if rightly cherished in the understanding, in the will, and in the life, will not fail, 
finally, to produce an evidence amounting to demonstration. Amen. 

144 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE SERVANT PLOUGHING OR FEEDING CATTLE. 

Luke 17:7-10. 

But which of you, having a servant ploughing or feeding cattle, will say to him by and by, 
when he is come from the field, Go and sit down to eat? and will not rather say to him. 
Make ready with what I may dine, and gird yourself, and serve me, till I have eaten and 
drunken; and afterward you shall eat and drink? Does he thank that servant because he 
did the things that were commanded him? I trust not. So likewise you, when you shall 
have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants; 
we haw done that which was our duty to do. 

The two kinds of servants here distinguished by Jesus Christ include all the members of 
His church, who are, according to the spiritual idea, either ploughmen or shepherds; since 
the term ploughmen involves in it all those who are preparing themselves for the 
reception and growth of the seed of the Word of God, which is the eternal truth; whilst the 
term shepherds involves in it all those who cherish the good which this seed produces, 
that so it may come to its full maturity. A spiritual ploughman, therefore, is one who is 
more concerned about the cultivation of his understanding and its improvement in 
heavenly knowledge; whilst the spiritual shepherd is one who is more concerned about the 
cultivation of his will, and its consequent improvement in the graces of heavenly love and 
charity. Jesus Christ, therefore, distinguishes between these two characters, because it is 
of importance, and of the first importance, that they should be distinguished, to the intent 
that the members of His church may examine themselves accordingly, and may thus be 
enabled to discover their several characters, and in what state they stand in regard both to 
the insemination and fruitfulness of the eternal truth in their own minds and lives. 

By the field, here spoken of, is to be 
coming from the field. 
​

The servant is described as 
understood both the will and the understanding of man, because these two faculties were 
created to receive and to cherish the good and truth of the Word of God, and to be formed 
accordingly; and to come from this field is an expression to denote the cessation of 
spiritual labour, whether it relate to the will or the understanding, and thus to denote a 
state of entrance into that rest, to which all spiritual labour is intended to conduct, which 
rest is no other than the termination of all spiritual conflict, and an admission to that 
blessed peace which is always the result of spiritual victory, and of conjunction thus 
acquired with the supreme good and supreme truth. 

It is intimated in the parable, that this servant, when coming from the field, should not 
immediately go and sit down to eat, but should rather make ready with what his master 
may dine, and gird himself, and serve his master till he has eaten and drunken, and 
afterward he might eat and drink. 

This intimation is grounded in the greatest depths of the divine wisdom, which is 
continually inculcating the edifying lesson, that before man spiritually sits down to eat; in 
other words, before he can appropriate to himself heavenly good and truth, and thus enter 
into the rest of everlasting peace and bliss, he must first prepare himself for the 
communication and enjoyment of all these blessings; which preparation consists in doing 
Make ready with what I may dine, 
what is here expressed in the parable, where it is said, 

145 

 
​
​
and gird yourself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken. 

Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice and open the 

has reference spiritually to the 
Make ready with what I may dine, 
​

The first injunction, 
implantation of truths, or the knowledges of heavenly things in the human mind, on which 
things the Lord is said to dine, agreeably to His own declaration in the Revelations, where 
He says, 
door, I will come in to him and will eat with him, and he with me 
(Rev. 3:20). For such is 
​
the nature of man's conjunction with the Lord, that it cannot be effected without the 
knowledges of truth, nor can it be effected by those knowledges alone, without the love 
and life of truth, which love and life is from the Lord. Thus man's conjunction with the 
Lord is the result of the conjunction of the love and life of truth with the truth itself; in 
which case the Lord is said to dine with man, and man with the Lord, because the Lord's 
love joins itself with the knowledges of truth in man's understanding, whilst the 
knowledges of truth in man's understanding reciprocally join themselves with the Lord's 
love and life, and thus is effected at heavenly marriage, together with its feast, in which 
the Lord delights Himself with entering into His own in man; and man, in his turn, 
delights himself with entering mutually, by means of the knowledges of truth, into an 
everlasting conjunction with, and enjoyment of, all the good things of the Lord's love and 
life. The first preparation, therefore, for man's entrance into the rest of eternal blessedness, 
is to make ready with what the Lord may dine; in other words, to store up in his 
understanding the knowledges of heavenly truth from the Holy Word, with a view to their 
final conjunction with the Lord's love and life. 

relates to the effect of that insemination on the 
Gird yourself, 
​

As the first injunction relates to the insemination of truth in the human understanding, so 
the second injunction, 
human will. For the girding, here spoken of, has respect to the love and its affections, 
being expressive of their separation from mere worldly, selfish, and sensual ends of life, 
and of their being gathered up and directed towards an eternal end, which end is nothing 
else but conjunction with the Supreme good and Supreme truth. Frequent mention is 
accordingly made of girdles and of girding in the Sacred Scriptures, both as applied to the 
Lord himself and to His children. Thus it is written of the Lord himself, that 
justice shall 
be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins 
(Isaiah 11:5), to denote 
​
that His love and affections, as to His humanity, were always directed upwards, and under 
the influence of the Divine good, as His thoughts were always directed towards, and 
under the influence of, the Divine truth. And thus his children are enjoined by Him to 
(Luke 12:35); or, as it is expressed by the Apostle, to have 
loins girded about 
have their 
​
(Ephes. 6:14), to denote that their love and affections 
loins girt about with truth 
their 
​
should also be directed upwards, and gathered out of all folly and transgression to an 
eternal conjunction with the Divine Father and Fountain of all life and peace. 

Serve me till I have eaten and drunken, 

As the two first injunctions relate, one to the insemination of truth, and the other to its 
operation on the love and affections, so the third, 
relates to its operation on the conduct or conversation of man in his exchange with his 
fellow-creatures, or in the discharge of relative duties, and in the fulfillment of those uses 
and good services to which he is called of the Divine Providence in that station of life in 
which he is placed. For this is the end both of the insemination of truth, and of its effect 
on the love, that man should be brought into a state of entire submission to the Divine will 
and Providence, so as to become a willing subject or servant for the accomplishment of 
divine purposes, and more especially for the fixation of the principles of thought and 
affection in useful works, agreeably to those other words of Jesus Christ, where He says 

146 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained [or 
to His disciples, 
arranged] you, that you should bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain 
(John 
​
15:16). For by bringing forth fruit, is here signified the production of heavenly love and 
charity in the human will; and by this fruit remaining, is further denoted the descent of 
those heavenly principles into the actions or operations of the external man, where they 
become fixed and permanent, and acquire a body, in the useful and profitable works of a 
well-regulated life. It is added, 
principles of love and charity, in the internal man, are fixed and rendered permanent by 
good works in the external, the Lord, in such case, takes entire possession of the whole 
man, and partakes in all the joys derived from the perception of his own love and wisdom 
manifested and operative in the human will and understanding. 

to denote that, when the 
Till I have eaten and drunken, 
​

It is added, 
These words are intended to instruct us, that 
and then you may eat and drink. 
​
man is not allowed to enter into the enjoyment of any celestial good, or into the delight of 
any spiritual truth, only so far as he first acknowledges, in heart and life, that every such 
good and truth is derived solely from the Lord, and is the gift of His bountiful and 
unmerited mercy, and in proportion as, by humility and submission, he allows the Divine 
Giver to enter first into the enjoyment and delight of all His gifts. For until this is the case 
man must of necessity separate those gifts from their Divine fountain, and, in so doing, 
must of course separate himself from that fountain, and, consequently, from all heavenly 
enjoyment, peace, and blessedness, which can only be tasted in their fullness, so far as 
man is wise to connect himself with his Maker, and with all the good things of His mercy 
and love. 

In the application of this parable, the Lord proposes the following interesting question, 
to which 
Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? 
​
So 
and then delivers the following precept, 
trust not; 
he gives the following answer, 
​
likewise you, when you have done all that is commanded you, say, We are unprofitable 
servants: we have done that which was our duty to do, 

I
​

We learn from the above question and answer, and from the annexed precept, that no 
action of ours has any merit in it, only so far as it is done under the divine influence of our 
Heavenly Father, and thus under the humble, grateful acknowledgement, that He is the 
real doer of it, whilst all that we can do is to co-operate with His divine grace and mercy. 
We learn, further, that we ought always to consider ourselves merely as co-operators with 
our God and Saviour, in all our thoughts, words, and works, agreeably to His own 
declaration, where He says, 
Thus we ought to refer all 
Without me you can do nothing. 
​
our talents, with their operation, to the Divine bounty which bestows them, and tremble at 
the idea of ascribing any glory to ourselves when it is due solely to the Lord our 
Redeemer. 

This parable teaches us to regard ourselves as called to the infinite honour and happiness 
of being servants of the Most High, and that in this character we have to act in the double 
capacity of a ploughman and a shepherd; in other words, as we are gifted both with an 
understanding and a will, and that our understanding was given us for the insemination 
and cultivation of all heavenly truth, as our will was given us for the reception and 
fruit-fullness of all the heavenly good of love and charity. In the next place, we are taught, 
that in the fulfillment of these important duties, we are bound, first, to regard the divine 
will and pleasure of our Heavenly Father, by preparing in ourselves a suitable habitation 
for His Holy Spirit of love and wisdom, that so He may take delight in the abode of His 
own preparing, and in the heavenly principles with which He furnishes that abode. We are 

147 

 
​
​
​
​
 
​
​
​
instructed, yet further, that it is the will of our Heavenly Father, that we ourselves may 
then enter into the full enjoyment of those principles, and of all the happiness to which 
they give birth, whenever we are wise, humbly, and gratefully to acknowledge them to be 
His gifts for our bliss and salvation. Lastly, we learn, that under every advancement in the 
reception of goodness and of truth from above, and in all their operation, we ought to 
ascribe all the praise and glory to Him to whom it properly belongs, and still account 
ourselves unprofitable servants, because we can never rise to any higher honour than to 
become a fellow-worker, or co-operator, with the Omnipotent in the important concerns 
of our salvation and bliss. Let us resolve, therefore, from now on to endeavour to 
discharge all our duties, whether those of a spiritual ploughman, or of a spiritual shepherd, 
with the greatest zeal and alacrity, as if everything depended on ourselves, but after all to 
acknowledge, in humility, that of ourselves we can do nothing, and that we owe 
everything, whether it relate to the knowledge of truth in the understanding, to the 
reception of good in the will, or to the operation of both in our words and works, to the 
free grace and mercy of the Divine Parent and Fountain of all truth, of all good, of all 
peace, and of all salvation, to whom be the kingdom, the power, and the glory, for ever. 
Amen. 

148 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE UNJUST JUDGE. 

Luke 18:1-8. 

And He spoke a parable to them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to give 
up; saying, There was in a city a judge, who feared not God, neither regarded man. And 
there was a widow in that city; and she came to him, saying, Avenge me of mine 
adversary. And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I 
fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest 
by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge 
says. And shall not God avenge His own elect, who cry day and night to Him, though he 
bear long with them? I tell you that He will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the 
Son of Man comes, shall he find faith on the earth? 

In the sense of the letter, by the city is meant a city, by the judge a judge, and by the 
widow a widow, who applies to the judge to be avenged of her adversary, or of some one 
who had done her injury. But in the spiritual sense, by the city, here spoken of, is to be 
understood the doctrine of the church; and by the judge, the false principles and 
persuasions which prevailed in that doctrine, for it is said of him, that he feared not God, 
neither regarded man, intimating that he was void of all love and charity; and by the 
widow are to be understood those in the church who are in the desire of truth, from a 
principle of simple good, and from a conviction that without truth they can have no power 
against their spiritual enemies, the devil, the world, and the flesh. 

In the sense of the letter this means, that either 
he would not for a while. 
​

It is written of the judge, when he was applied to by the widow to avenge her of her 
adversary, that 
through carelessness or disinclination, the judge delayed to grant the widow's request; but 
according to the spiritual idea, it denotes the delay and difficulty attending the subjugation 
of evil, and the powers of darkness, whilst man is under the influence of false principles 
and persuasions, and is thus in darkness respecting the eternal truth. 

But it is added, that 
afterward he said within himself, though I fear not God, nor regard 
man, yet because this widow troubles me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming 
she weary me. 
According to the sense of the letter, it would appear from these words, that 
​
the unjust judge granted the widow's request merely for the purpose of saving himself the 
trouble of repeated solicitation. But under this literal sense of the above words is 
concealed a spiritual or internal sense, as in all other parts of the parable, which spiritual 
or internal sense teaches the certain prevalence of prayer, or holy desire, though it is not 
accompanied with the knowledge of heavenly truth, but, on the contrary, is immersed in 
the darkness of mistaken and false opinions. Jesus Christ, therefore, would instruct us, by 
this part of the payable, that every pure and upright desire of the humble and the penitent 
is sure, sooner or later, to obtain the redress of all its grievances, by being enlightened 
with that saving wisdom which has in it eternal life and salvation. He would teach us also 
a lesson of patience, and not to be discouraged, though our prayers are not immediately 
granted, nor our desires immediately gratified. 

The Lord makes the application of the parable in these words: 
Hear what the unjust judge 
says. And shall not God avenge His own elect, who cry day and night to Him, though He 

149 

 
​
​
​
bear long with them? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. 

He would thus teach us, in the first place, to attend well to what the unjust judge says; in 
other words, to reflect continually in our own minds on the blessed and certain effects of 
importunate prayer, arising out of penitent, humble, and converted hearts, though it be not 
enlightened by the bright light of the Eternal Truth. And in the second place, He would 
instruct us concerning the superior prevalence of such holy prayer when it is so 
enlightened. For by the term God is here to be understood the divine truth, as by the term 
Lord is to be understood the divine good from whence the divine truth proceeds. By the 
elect also are meant those of the Church who are principled in heavenly good and charity; 
and by avenging them, is denoted the redress of all their grievances, and the removal of all 
evil, through the illumination of that eternal truth to which they apply themselves, and 
their everlasting conjunction with all its brightness and its blessing. 

and 
day 
​

includes every state of the mind, whether it be in light or in 
night, 
​

The expression 
darkness, in consolation or in trouble; and therefore Jesus Christ would teach us by this 
expression, that our prayers to Him are of the same prevalence, and equally affect Him, 
whether they be attended with light and consolation to ourselves, or otherwise. Thus he 
would instruct us to pray alike, and not to give up, both in adversity and prosperity, in 
sorrow and in joy, when we are distressed through the want of heavenly light, and when 
we are gladdened which its abundance. 

according to the internal sense of the expression, is to be understood 
speedily, 
​

By the term 
because the internal sense has no relation to time, but to the state of the thing 
certainly, 
​
treated of. Jesus Christ, therefore, by these apparently contradictory words, would instruct 
us, that all our sincere prayers will certainly be heard, and all our pure desires will 
certainly be granted, notwithstanding the appearance of delay on the part of our Heavenly 
Father, who converts even that delay into the means of our purification, by leading us to a 
deeper sense of our own wants and unworthiness, and thus to a more grateful sense of His 
mercies, when our requests are granted. 

The parable concludes with these remarkable words, which seem to have no connection 
with it, 

Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, shall he find faith on the earth? 

The coming of the Son of Man means the revelation or manifestation of Divine Truth 
from God out of Heaven, for the instruction and salvation of His Church, or people, which 
revelation or manifestation, according to the testimony of the Sacred Scriptures, is to take 
place in the latter days, and is pointed at more especially by the descent of the Holy City, 
the New Jerusalem, here upon earth, to be the tabernacle of God with men. Jesus Christ, 
therefore, would instruct us, by the above significant question, to take heed to the state of 
our hearts and lives, that when the Son of Man shall appear, or, in other words, when 
Divine Truth shall be revealed or made manifest, we may be found in a suitable 
disposition to receive it, neither overlooking it through carelessness, nor rejecting it 
through the wickedness of our lives. 

Jesus Christ would teach us, then, in this parable, that He is present in every good desire 
of our hearts, and though this desire may not be attended with the light of truth at its first 
commencement, yet if we continue patiently to cherish it, and to keep it open to its Divine 
Source, it will assuredly, sooner or later, through the Divine Omnipotence, deliver us 
from all error of false doctrine and opinion, and conduct us to the bright light of the 
Eternal truth. He would teach us, yet further, that His apparent delay in granting our 
petitions is no ground of discouragement, but quite the contrary, since by that delay, if we 

150 

 
​
​
​
​
are faithful to it, our purification is promoted, because our humiliation and dependence on 
God are rendered more absolute. Lastly, He would intimate to us, that this state of pure 
desire, and of devout humiliation and dependence, is the best possible state to prepare us 
for that promised Second Advent of the Son of Man, which the Scriptures announce to us, 
and which is to consist in a brighter display of heavenly truth to the Church, or people, of 
God, at a time when, through the influence of false doctrines, and more especially through 
the prevalence of evil love and corrupt affections, mankind shall have lost all just 
apprehension of the proper sense of the Sacred Scriptures, all true knowledge of God, and 
of the ways of salvation, and must thus perish everlastingly, unless the Word of God be 
again opened to their understandings in the power and brightness of that saving truth, of 
which it is the only proper source and fountain. Amen. 

151 

 
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE PHARISEE AND THE TAX COLLECTOR. 

Luke 18:9-14. 

And He spoke this parable to certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, 
and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and 
the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself: God, I thank 
You, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax 
collector. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the tax collector, 
standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes to heaven, but beat upon his 
breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house 
justified rather than the other: for every one that exalts himself shall be abased; and he 
that humbles himself shall be exalted. 

According to the sense of the letter, by going up into the temple to pray, is meant the 
going up into a building of wood and stone consecrated to the service of God, to perform 
in it sacred worship, such as is acceptable to God; but according to the spiritual idea, by 
going up into the temple to pray, is meant the retiring within ourselves, or entering into 
the interior of our own minds, to open our hearts and understandings before the Great and 
Holy God, according to which sense of the words, man is called a temple, and sometimes 
a house or habitation of the Almighty. It is also to be noted, that prayer, properly 
considered, is nothing else but the opening of the interiors of the mind towards God and 
Heaven, by the exercise of devout affections and thoughts. For without devout affection 
and thought there can be no prayer, consequently, no opening of the mind towards God 
and Heaven. 

A Pharisee, according to the literal sense of the term, means a person who belongs to a 
Jewish sect of that name; but according to the spiritual sense of the term, a person who is 
very exact and correct about the externals of religion, but careless about its internals; in 
other words, who is scrupulously attentive to forms and ceremonies of piety and divine 
worship, but utterly regardless of what those forms and ceremonies were intended to 
represent; or, according to the description given of such a character by Jesus Christ, 
pays tithe of mint, anise, and cummin, and omits the weightier matters of the law, 
In short, a Pharisee is one who is holy without, but unholy 
judgement, mercy, and faith. 
​
within, or, as the Apostle expresses it, 

who has a form of godliness, but without the power. 

Who 

According to the literal sense, a tax collector was one who collected the public taxes; and 
as the character of such a person was very odious and despicable amongst the Jews, 
therefore a tax collector was one whom the Jews held in the utmost contempt and 
aversion. But according to the spiritual idea, by a tax collector is to be understood one 
who is not only despised by others, but also by himself; in other words, who thinks little 
and meanly of his own spiritual attainments, and on that ground is disposed to exalt others 
above himself. Thus the tax collector, in this parable, represents the Gentiles, as the 
Pharisee represents the Jews. Consequently, the tax collector is a figure of those who are 
not principled in truth and the external forms of worship, but yet are in the earnest desire 
of being so principled; whilst the Pharisee is a figure of those who are indeed principled 
in heavenly knowledge and the ceremonies of religious worship, but yet have no desire at 

152 

 
​
​
all to form their lives according to such knowledge, and in agreement with the purport of 
such ceremonial observances. 

the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself: God, I thank You, that I am 

It is said that 
We 
not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterous, or even as this tax collector. 
​
have seen that by prayer is to be understood interior thought and affection, when directed 
towards God and Heaven. 

In the case of the Pharisee it is evidently the thought and affection of self-love, by which 
this deluded man was led to suppose himself better than others, and thus to exalt himself 
in the superiority of his own fancied virtues, at the same time making a pretence of 
gratitude to the Almighty for this fancied superiority. His prayer, therefore, had nothing in 
it but defilement, because it was derived from himself, and not from God, and thus was 
full of himself more than of God. For the true ground of pure and acceptable prayer is, 
humility and self-abasement, under a due sense of our wants, our weaknesses, and our 
defilements before our Heavenly Father, in which case our prayer connects itself with 
God, and acknowledges Him as its Divine Origin, and is thus filled with the fullness of its 
origin; whereas a prayer grounded in the idea of superior virtues, separates us more and 
more from God, by immersing us more and more in the dangerous and defiled idolatry of 
self-complacency and self-esteem. 

The Pharisee makes this further boast concerning himself, 
tithes of all that I possess. 

I fast twice in the week, I give 

It appears from these expressions, that spiritual pride, which is here represented by the 
Pharisee, can mortify itself in a certain degree, or so far as relates to the external things of 
the body, and that it can also, in a certain degree, make sacrifices to God, but then with all 
its mortifications and sacrifices it still reserves to itself the vanity of its own self-love and 
self-esteem, and thus never makes the entire surrender of itself to the God of Heaven. Its 
mortifications, therefore, and its sacrifices, only tend to separate it further from heaven 
and eternal life, because they have a tendency to nourish a more dangerous self-love than 
could otherwise have prevailed. 

It is also said of the tax collector, that, 
his eyes to heaven, but beat upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. 

standing afar off, he would not lift up so much as 

From these words we learn that real humility is always attended with a sentiment of its 
infinite distance from the divine purity, and, therefore, is said to stand afar off. We learn, 
too, that it is deeply sensible of its own blindness and opposition to the truth of God, and, 
therefore, it would not lift up its eyes to heaven; in other words, it is afraid of high 
speculations on heavenly doctrines, from a sense of its own unworthiness, and from a 
fear, at the same time, lest practice should not keep pace with speculation. We learn, 
further, that it is always impressed with a consciousness of its natural defilements, 
signified by beating on the breast. And lastly, we learn, that true humility is always in the 
act of applying itself to the Divine Mercy to heal the disorders of its blinded 
understanding and depraved will, signified by the passionate supplication, God be 
merciful to me a sinner. We discover, therefore, in this character of the humble tax 
collector, the true temper and disposition of the real Christian, as distinguished from the 
formal and hypocritical professor of Christianity, and that the real Christian is always 
abasing himself that he may exalt his God, and that his religion, therefore, consists in a 
deep-rooted sense of his own ignorance, defilement, and infirmity, and a consequent 
devout and constant application to the Father of Mercies for wisdom, for purity, and for 

153 

 
​
​
​
protection. 

tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the 

Jesus Christ says, I 
other. 
When man enters into the interiors of his own mind, which is the true temple where 
​
proper and acceptable worship is performed to the Almighty, he is then said to go up, or 
ascend, because he draws nearer to that Holy Being in himself, who is called the Highest, 
and is said to dwell in the Highest, for what is inmost, according to the spiritual idea, is 
called highest according to a natural idea. But when he quits this holy exchange of devout 
affection with his Maker, and descends again into the exteriors of his thoughts and 
affections, to exercise them in the discharge of the common duties and engagements of 
life, he is then said to go down to his house, because exterior thought and affection are 
properly the house of man, as interior thought and affection are properly the house of 
God, so that every man has, as it were, two houses; one designed for his communication 
with God and His angelic kingdom, and the other designed for his communication with 
men in the exercises of charity and mutual good-will. 

By being justified, is meant to be made just; and by his going; down to his house justified, 
is to be understood that he brought down a principle of justice into all the concerns of his 
external life, by thinking, speaking, and acting in agreement with such a principle, so that 
his external man was made just or justice, as well as his internal man. For this is the 
proper sense and meaning of the term justification, about which the Christian world has 
been so long and so unhappily divided; some insisting that man is justified by faith alone, 
some, that he is justified by charity, and some by good works; whereas, the truth is, that 
man is justified by the Divine Principle of Justice alone, so far as he admits this principle 
to pre-eminence in his inner man, and suffers it at the same time to control, direct, and 
govern all the thoughts, words, and works of his outer man. In the original language of the 
New Testament, therefore, the above passage is thus expressed, he went down justified to 
his house; in other words, he introduced into his house, or into all the concerns of his 
external man, a principle of justice, for continual guidance and government. 

The parable speaks of his being justified rather than the other. By the other, is here meant 
the proud Pharisee; and, therefore, by the tax collector being justified rather than the 
Pharisee, is intended to be expressed, according to the idea of justification, just now 
suggested, that the Pharisee did not suffer a principle of justice from the Almighty to enter 
into his mind, and to operate in his life. For such is the nature of spiritual pride, or, what 
amounts to the same, of a defiled internal man, whilst the external man is occupied in 
holy things, that in such case the deluded worshipper never thinks of introducing into his 
life any solid principle, either of justice or equity, from God, to guide and govern him, but 
is content to think that he is justified by his external acts of piety, such as prayer, 
attendance at the holy altar, almsgiving, etc., without any regard to the Divine law of 
justice, which is nothing else but the law of the Divine love and mercy, by the observance 
of which alone man is restored to the order of heaven, and rendered just in the sight of 
God and of His angels. 

Jesus Christ observes, at the conclusion of this parable, and as a maxim of truth resulting 
from it, 
shall be exalted. 

that every one that exalts himself shall be abased; and he that humbles himself 

By man exalting himself is to be understood, that he sets his own will, his own 
understanding, and his own prudence above the Divine Will, the Divine Understanding, 
and the Divine, Providence of the Most High; in other words, that he exalts his own 
reason above the Word of God, or if he acknowledges the Word of God with his 

154 

 
​
​
understanding; to be a revelation from God, yet he does not acknowledge it in his life and 
love, and, consequently, is proud and high-minded, despising others in comparison with 
himself, and serving God for no other end than to gain the favour of men. And by such a 
one being abased is to be understood, that in thus exalting himself, he departs from the 
order of God, and makes himself the vilest and lowest of all creatures, by separating 
himself from all living communication with the mercy, the truth, the greatness and 
omnipotence of God. 

He that humbles himself denotes one who submits his own will, his own understanding, 
and his own prudence, to the Divine Will, the Divine Understanding, and the Divine 
Providence of his Heavenly Father, confessing; thus from his heart, that all goodness, all 
truth, all power, all protection, are from God, and nothing at all from man, only so far as 
he receives it from God. And by such a one being exalted is to be understood, that in 
consequence of thus submitting himself to the Divine government and guidance, he rises 
out of all his sins, his infirmities, his ignorances, and his miseries, to a blessed and eternal 
conjunction with the Supreme Goodness and the Supreme Truth. Thus he is exalted above 
himself, above the world, above false joys, and above real sorrows, to a communication 
with God and heaven, and eternal life and salvation, and all this in proportion to the 
measure and degree of his humiliation. 

We learn from this parable that spiritual pride is most odious in the sight of God, being a 
symptom of the most defiled and dangerous self-love, and that we ought, therefore, to be 
particularly on our guard against this infectious evil, especially in contemplating any good 
actions which we may have performed, or any distinguished excellencies which we may 
appear to possess. We learn, further, that humility is the best state of the heart of man, and 
the state most pleasing in the sight of God, because it consists in renouncing our own will 
and our own wisdom, that we may exalt in ourselves, at all times, and on all occasions, 
the Divine Will and Divine Wisdom of the Most High. Lastly, we learn, that our 
justification in the sight of God will depend entirely on our advancement in the grace of 
humility, or in a due sense of our natural defilements, ignorances, imperfections, and 
weaknesses, since justification consists in the implantation of a principle of justice and 
equity from God, in all the thoughts, words, and works of the external man, who principle 
of justice can never be admitted into our minds until the opposite principle of injustice, 
which is the inordinate love of ourselves, and of the world, more than of God, and of our 
neighbour, be removed. Let us resolve, therefore, from now on, through the Divine Grace 
and Mercy, to hate and abominate all spiritual pride, as a thing most infernal, and to 
tremble at, and detest the sight of whatever may be called our own excellence, or our own 
virtue, if it has a tendency at any time to prevent our praying, from the bottom of a broken 
and a contrite heart, 
through the Divine grace and mercy, to cherish in our minds the temper of humility, as a 
temper most heavenly, because most pleasing in the sight of God, and with this blessed 
view, to renounce, at all times, our own will, wisdom, and prudence, that the will, the 
wisdom, and providence of our Heavenly Father, may ever be exalted in our minds and 
lives. Thus may we hope always to be like the man who went down to his house justified, 
because we shall always carry down along with us the principle of Divine justice into 
every transaction of life, until we become ourselves heavenly forms of the same justice, 
both in the inner and outer man, that is to say, in our words and works, as well as in our 
inmost intentions and thoughts. Amen. 

Let us resolve, at the same time, 
God be merciful to me a sinner. 
​

155 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE GOOD SHEPHERD. 

John 10:1-5. 

Verily, verily, I say to you, he that enters not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbs up 
some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. But he that enters in by the door is the 
shepherd of the sheep. To him the watchman opens; and the sheep hear his voice: and he 
calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. And when he brings out his own sheep, 
he goes before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice. And a stranger 
will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers. 

The repetition of the term 
is intended to denote the great importance of the subject 
verily 
​
to which it is annexed, and thus to excite the reader's attention accordingly. For the single 
term verily is expressive of the truth of what is asserted, and, therefore, when it is 
repeated, it is for the purpose of giving double force to such truth. 

Jesus Christ intended to figure and to describe His heavenly 
sheepfold 
​

Under the term 
kingdom and its blessedness, and since this kingdom and its blessedness are derived 
solely from the conjunction of the divine love and wisdom in the minds of those angelic 
beings who compose that kingdom, therefore, the conjunction of those heavenly 
principles was intended here to be expressed by the term sheepfold. Not to enter in, then, 
by the door into the sheepfold, but to climb up some other way, manifestly implies an 
attempt to attain to the above conjunction of heavenly principles, without paying any 
regard to the means necessary for introduction to it, which introductory means are here 
expressed by the term door. 

and a 
thief 
​

because, if the 
robber, 
​

The person making this attempt is described as a 
necessary means of introduction to the heavenly sheepfold are overlooked and 
disregarded, it must of necessity follow that the person who overlooks and disregards 
them will appropriate to himself the divine things of the Lord, which are His divine love 
and divine wisdom, as if they were his own, independent of the divine bounty, and thus 
will incur the censure annexed to the double character of a thief and a robber; for one of 
these titles was intended to express the enormous criminality, on the part of man, of 
supposing that he can understand any truth, when left merely to himself without divine 
influence, whilst the other term was intended to express the equal enormity of supposing 
that he can be affected by any good separate from that influence. The two terms, indeed, 
thief and robber, according to their common interpretation, have no distinct meaning, and 
are, therefore, generally understood as expressing the same idea; but in the language of 
Jesus Christ, which is the language of God Himself, we are constrained to acknowledge, 
that each term must necessarily be applied to a distinct idea, otherwise the two terms 
would be mere tautology. Jesus Christ, therefore, applied both terms according to the 
distinct idea above-mentioned, because He saw it to be a matter of the first importance, to 
guard mankind against the distinct crimes which they involve, and thus to lead them to the 
grateful acknowledgement, that all pure love and pure wisdom are the continual gifts of 
the divine unmerited bounty of the Most Merciful God. 

It has already been shown what is meant by the sheepfold, and by not entering in by the 
door; and, therefore, it is plain, from what was said on the occasion, that to enter in by the 

156 

 
​
​
​
​
door implies the use and application of the means necessary to introduce to the 
conjunction of heavenly love and heavenly wisdom in the human mind, and thus of the 
means necessary for man's conjunction with the Supreme Good and the Supreme Truth. 
The person, therefore, who so enters in, is called the shepherd of the sheep, because the 
term sheep involves in it all the recipients of the above heavenly principles; and, of 
course, the term shepherd involves in it all those who cherish those principles by 
incorporating them into their lives. Jesus Christ, accordingly, afterwards calls Himself the 
Good Shepherd, to denote that in His Humanity He was ever cherishing the principles of 
the divine love and wisdom, until He fully incorporated them into His mind and life, and 
by so doing made His Humanity Divine, or One with the Eternal Father. 

By the watchman is here to be understood the 
to him the watchman opens. 
​

It is said, 
Divine Good of the Divine Love of the Most High, which is called the watchman, because 
it stands continually at the door which leads to the conjunction of the divine love and 
wisdom in human minds; and he is said to open, because through the divine good of the 
divine love, and through that alone, communication is effected between man and his 
Maker, by virtue of which communication man is finally introduced to an eternal 
conjunction of the heavenly principles of love and wisdom in his own mind, and thus to 
an eternal conjunction also with the Divine Father and Fountain of those principles. 

The sheep denote, as was observed above, all those who be come receptive of the divine 
love and wisdom; and their hearing his voice, or the voice of the watchman, means that 
they are ever attentive and obedient to the Eternal Truth, which is here signified by his 
voice. For the term his, in this place, has manifest relation to the watchman 
above-mentioned, by whom is signified, as was before shown, the Divine Good of the 
Divine Love of the Most High, the voice of which good can, therefore, mean nothing else 
but the Divine Truth, because nothing else properly proceeds from the Divine Good but 
the Divine Truth. 

acknowledge such love and wisdom to be from their 
​

The sheep are 
He calls His own sheep by name, and leads them out. 
​

It next follows, that 
here called His own sheep, to denote not only that they are principled in heavenly love 
and wisdom, but also that they
Heavenly Father, thus not their own, only so far as they derive the heavenly gift from 
Him. It is further said of these sheep, that He calls them by name, and leads them out; 
because to call them by name, denotes that He is acquainted with all their qualities, thus 
with the distinct manner and degree in which each is receptive of His Divine Love and 
Wisdom; and because by leading them out is intended to be described His fatherly care 
over them, in conducting them to the knowledge of Himself, by instructing them in all 
truth relating to Himself, and to His heavenly kingdom. 

It is afterwards added, that 
sheep follow Him. 

He brings out His own sheep, and goes before them, and the 

The several distinctions here made are grounded in the double operation which the 
Almighty exercises on human minds, by leading them, first, to the knowledge of Himself 
and of His eternal kingdom, through the manifestation of heavenly truth in their 
understandings; and, next, by influencing them to act according to that truth, from the 
love of it, as operative in their wills. Thus the two expressions, leading them out, and 
putting them forth, were intended to mark the divine leading and government exercised by 
Jesus Christ over man in both principles of his constitution, namely, his understanding 
and his will, or his thoughts and his affections, and so to denote the entire guidance and 
rule which the Father of Mercies continually claims to Himself, over all His intelligent 

157 

 
​
​
​
 
​
creatures, for their happiness and salvation. It is, therefore, added, He goes before them, to 
denote that when man becomes submissive and obedient to the divine rule and 
government of the Most High, he then lives perpetually in the Divine presence, and 
beholds the divine countenance ever before his eyes conducting him to the regions of 
bliss, by introducing him daily to a closer conjunction with all that is good, and wise, and 
happy. In this case it is further said, that the sheep follow Him, because to follow Him is 
an expression to denote an entire submission to His heavenly rule and government, and 
especially the imitation of His example that as He glorified His humanity by combats 
against the powers of darkness, and by continual obedience to the guidance and 
government of the divine love in Himself, so His sheep labour to attain conjunction of life 
with Him, by opposing the same powers of darkness, in submission to the guidance and 
government of heavenly love and wisdom ever flowing from that Glorified or Divine 
Humanity. 

and afterwards, that they know His voice, to 
the sheep hear His voice; 
​

It is first said that 
point out a distinction which is of the utmost importance to be attended to, because to hear 
the watchman's voice is an expression intended to denote an obedient will; whereas to 
know His voice, is an expression intended to denote an enlightened understanding, as 
resulting from an obedient will. Thus the two expressions combined were designed to 
mark the full reception and operation of heavenly truth, both in the will and in the 
understanding, until it takes entire possession of the whole man, by rendering him 
receptive of its purifying and enlightening influences in those two grand faculties of his 
life, and thereby forming him entirely after its own image and likeness. It is, therefore, 
A stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice 
added, 
of strangers, 
to denote that they will no longer suffer themselves to be led by evil 
​
principles and false persuasions, originating in the powers of darkness, which are here 
called strangers, but will rather turn their backs upon them, and for this eternal reason, 
because they know not their voice; in other words, because they have no fellowship or 
communion with the false and erroneous doctrines signified by that voice. 

We learn from this parable all the instruction which Jesus Christ sums up in the following 
words, as its application, where he says, 
Verily, verily, I say to you, I am the Door of the 
sheep; all that ever came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not hear 
them. I am the Door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, 
and find pasture. The thief comes not but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am 
come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly 
(Verses 
​
7-11). 

This application teaches us that Jesus Christ, as to His Divine Humanity, is the only door 
of introduction to the heavenly sheepfold, and that, consequently, we can never hope for 
any communication or conjunction with the Supreme Good, called the Father, only so far 
as we seek it in that Humanity. We learn, further, that all who set aside that Divine 
Humanity, and seek conjunction with the Eternal Father separate from it, are thieves and 
robbers; in other words, that they appropriate to themselves the Divine things of God, by 
claiming and holding them independently of the Divine Giver. We are instructed, yet 
further, that if we are wise to enter in at the above door; in other words, if we draw near to 
Jesus Christ in His Divine Humanity, and approach Him with a sincere heart, we shall be 
sure to find deliverance from all evil, and a communication of every heavenly good, both 
internal and external. Lastly, we learn, that they who do not approach Jesus Christ in His 
Divine Humanity, and who consequently appropriate to themselves the Divine things of 

158 

 
​
​
​
His holy love and wisdom, independently of Him, deprive themselves of all heavenly 
communication of love, of wisdom, and of life, whilst they who are wise to draw near to 
Jesus Christ as the only God, because the only Giver of every good gift, not only open in 
their own minds a communication with His life of love and wisdom, but also receive that 
life in a greater fullness than was ever before received by the children of men, agreeably 
to the prophetic declaration, where it is written concerning the appearing of the Incarnate 
God, 
Moreover the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and the light of the 
(Is. 30:26). Let us resolve, therefore, 
sun shall be seven-fold, as the light of seven days 
​
from now on, to believe in and approach Jesus Christ, in His Divine Humanity, as our 
only God and Saviour, and no longer to attempt to climb up into the sheepfold any other 
way. Thus let us resolve to acknowledge all that we are, or have, to be the merciful gifts 
of that Great God and Saviour, that so we may no longer separate ourselves from the 
communications of His mercy, by calling anything our own independent of His bounty, 
but may rather experience a more abundant increase of His heavenly love and wisdom in 
ourselves, whilst we approach Him, as He wills to be approached, in that Glorified 
Humanity which He was pleased to assume for the gracious purpose of giving man more 
free access to Himself, and thus of securing to Himself a fuller and more free access to 
man. Amen. 

159 

 
​
 
THE PARABLE 

OF 

THE VINE AND THE BRANCHES. 

John 15:1-7. 

I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener. Every branch in me that bears not fruit 
he takes away: and every branch that bears fruit, he purges it, that it may bring forth 
more fruit. Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken to you. Abide in me, 
and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more 
can you, except you abide in me. I am the vine, you are the branches: he that abides in 
me, and I in him, the same brings forth much fruit: for without me you can do nothing. If a 
man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, 
and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. If you abide in me, and my words abide 
in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done to you. 

You have 

Binding his foal to the vine, and
​

Jesus Christ here calls Himself the true vine in agreement with the language of 
correspondence, or the relation subsisting, because established at creation, between things 
natural and things spiritual, agreeably to which relation the vine is a representative figure 
of spiritual truth, and is, accordingly, so applied in the Book of Revelation, which is the 
Word of God. Thus, in the blessing which Jacob pronounces on his sons, it is said 
(Gen. 
his ass's colt to the choice vine 
concerning Judah, 
​
49:11), in which words it is evident that the vine is spoken of according to its above 
spiritual signification. To the same purpose it is written in the book of Psalms, 
c (Psalm 
brought a vine out of Egypt; you have cast out the heathen and planted it, et
​
80:8), where it must be evident to every considerate person, that by a vine is not meant a 
vine, but a spiritual principle, or what is the same thing, a spiritual people, represented by 
a vine. It is for the same reason, that the Church, or people of God, are called a vineyard, 
because a vineyard implies a portion of earth allotted to the cultivation of vines, and since 
the Church, or people of God, are a Church and people by virtue of the reception of 
The vineyard of the 
spiritual truth, they are accordingly called a vineyard, as it is written, 
(Isaiah 5:7). 
Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant 
​
Agreeably to the same idea, in the prophetic writings throughout, evangelical graces and 
virtues are constantly figured and described by different kinds of trees or plants answering 
to those graces and virtues. Thus it is written, 
shittah tree, and the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fig tree, and the 
pine, and the box tree together 
(Isaiah 41:19), where it must again be evident to every 
​
reflecting mind, that some spiritual principles are signified, which are in agreement with 
That they may 
the above trees, since it is written in the verse which immediately follows, 
see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the Lord has done 
this, and the Holy One of Israel has created it. 
Again, it is written, 
​
shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the briar shall come up the myrtle tree; 
and then 
​
it shall be to the Lord for a name, and for an everlasting sign that there shall 
it is added, 
be no cutting off 
(Isaiah 55:13); from which words it is again manifest, that, in the 
​
language of Revelation, spiritual graces and blessings are figured and represented by 
different kinds of trees. Jesus Christ accordingly calls Himself the true vine, as being the 
Source and All of Spiritual Truth, by virtue of which His Church or people, are enabled to 
attain conjunction of life with Himself. 

I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the 

Instead of the thorn 

160 

 
​
 
​
​
​
​
​
​
​
Whenever Jesus Christ 
My Father is the gardener. 
Jesus Christ further says of this vine, 
​
speaks of His Father, He speaks of the Essential Divine Principle which was in Himself, 
as His inmost soul and life, and which was distinct from Himself before His full 
glorification, and distinct in this, that the Father was the Divine Good in Himself, whereas 
He Himself, as to His Humanity, before it was fully united with the Divinity, was the 
Divine Truth. The Father, therefore, is called the gardener, or, as the original term might 
be better expressed, the vine dresser, inasmuch as the cultivation of the vine, or the 
growth and fruitfulness of heavenly truth, is always from the Divine Good of heavenly 
love and charity. It is not, then, to be supposed that Jesus Christ and His Father are 
separate beings, as they would appear to be from the above description in the letter, but 
that they are one and the same being, only with this distinction, that the Father is the 
inmost principle of that being, being its very Essential Life, whereas Jesus Christ, 
previous to the full glorification of His Humanity, was the external principle, here called 
the true vine, which is to be supposed as advancing gradually to a full union with its 
internal life or soul, until at length they were no longer two but one, on which occasion 
the Humanity became Divine, being fully incorporated with its Essential Divinity. 

It is written, 
that bears fruit, He purges it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 

takes away; and every branch 
Every branch in me that bears not fruit He
​
​

Every one who receives the Eternal Truth in his understanding is called a branch in the 
true vine Jesus Christ: the reason is, because by virtue of such reception he has 
communication with Jesus Christ in his understanding, and in consequence of such 
communication receives a degree of life from Him, in the same manner that a branch 
derives life from its parent stock. 

here spoken of, is charity, or an operative good-will towards men, producing all 
fruit, 
The 
​
kinds of good and useful works; and not to bear this fruit is to have knowledge, but not a 
life corresponding to knowledge; in other words, it is to have truth in the understanding, 
but not the good of truth in the will, in which case the branch is entirely useless, and does 
not answer the purpose for which it was created, since the end of all knowledge is to 
conduct to the life of knowledge, and the end of all truth is to lead to the good of truth, 
which is the love and the life of good works. 

(the Father) 
He 
​

but this is to be 
takes it away; 
​

Concerning this branch, it is said, that 
understood as spoken merely according to the appearance, since to those who are thus 
taken away, it appears to be the act and deed of the Almighty, whereas in truth and reality 
they take themselves away. For such is the case with every one who receives the 
knowledge of the Eternal Truth, and does not suffer himself to be conducted by that 
knowledge to its heavenly and blessed life, and thus to a living conjunction with its 
Divine Source, that he takes himself away from that Source, notwithstanding every effort 
of the Source itself to preserve him from separation. Thus every sinner brings his own 
destruction upon himself, although it appears to him that his destruction comes from God. 

It is declared of the branch that bears fruit, that 
He purges it that it may bring forth more 
By this is to be understood the purification effected by the Supreme Good with all 
fruit. 
​
those who have attained to any state of conjunction of heavenly good and heavenly truth 
in their own minds and lives, by abiding in Jesus Christ the true vine. In regard to such 
purification, the case is this, that no good or truth received by man or angel can be 
absolutely pure, so as to be incapable of receiving any higher degree of purity. 
Nevertheless, every good and truth, whether received by man or angel, is capable of an 
indefinite advancement in purification, which advancement is effected successively in the 

161 

 
​
​
 
​
​
​
​
progress of regeneration, both during man's abode in this world, and afterwards in the 
eternal world. It is further to be noted, that this purification is generally accomplished 
under some state of trial or temptation, it being the end and tendency of every such trial 
and temptation, to lead man into humiliation, and by humiliation into closer conjunction 
with his Heavenly Father, or the Supreme Good, and of course into a higher state of 
purification from the inordinate love of himself and the world, which love is the grand 
source of all defilement. 

spoken of, when it is said 
more fruit 
​

From what has been said concerning the progress of man's purification, it is evident, that 
as he advances in it, he attains at the same time to some new state of heavenly good and 
truth, which is the 
That it may bring forth more fruit. 
It is, therefore, an eternal law of the divine order, in regard to man's regeneration, that he 
should never stand still in any present attainments, let them in themselves be ever so 
excellent, but should always be pressing forward to the possession of some new and 
higher good, and to the illumination of some new and higher order of truth. Every present 
attainment, therefore, is only to be considered as preparatory to some new attainment, and 
thus it is that man enters into a career of gradual approach towards the Eternal, ever 
bringing forth more fruit to the glory of the Divine Vine-dresser, and to his own eternal 
happiness and comfort. 

It is added, 
To judge 
Now you are clean through the word which I have spoken to you. 
​
from appearance, these words seem to be quite unconnected with what goes before. The 
want of connection, however, is only apparent, and not real, for in the preceding words 
mention had been made of the 
purification of the branch which bears fruit, that it may 
bring forth more fruit, 
and Jesus Christ now explains the manner in which that 
​
purification is effected, as well as the principle by which it is effected. For He now 
teaches that this purification is accomplished by and through His Word, as it is received in 
the hearts and understandings of those to whom it is addressed, and, further, as it is seen 
to be in connection with Himself, the only Divine Source of all truth. For such is the 
nature of man's purification from his natural evils and errors, that it cannot be worked 
without the reception of truth, and that truth cannot be received unless it be received 
conjointly in the will, the understanding, and the works of the true penitent; neither can it 
still be purifying, unless it be seen and acknowledged in its continual connection with its 
Divine Source, and that Source be seen and acknowledged to be Jesus Christ in His 
Divine Humanity, and Him alone. When Jesus Christ, therefore, said, 
Now you are clean 
through the word which I have spoken to you, 
He meant to explain more particularly the 
​
purification of which He had been before speaking, and to show that it was effected by 
and through the Eternal Truth in its everlasting union with Himself. 

Jesus Christ continues his discourse in these words, 
branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can you, except you 
abide in Me. 

Abide in Me, and I in you. As the 

He is here speaking of the conjunction between Himself and His Church, thus between 
Himself and every individual member of the Church; and He would teach, that this 
conjunction cannot be effected unless it be mutual or reciprocal, thus unless there be an 
uniting love in both the parties. For the case with this conjunction is like that of all other 
spiritual conjunctions whatsoever, it being very well known that the spiritual conjunction 
subsisting between two friends cannot take place unless it be mutual; in other words, 
unless each friend be attracted to the other by mutual love and interest. This is especially 
the case in regard to that highest and most important of all spiritual conjunctions which is 

162 

 
​
​
​
​
​
​
here spoken of, namely, the conjunction between Jesus Christ and His Church, in 
effecting which it is not sufficient that Jesus Christ, on His part, loves His Church, but His 
Church, on her part, must also love Him in return, by accounting Him as her greatest and 
sovereign good. It is however to be understood that the Church cannot thus mutually love 
her Divine Lord by any love properly her own, or which she derives from herself alone, 
but a love which she receives continually from her Lord, and which she humbly and 
gratefully acknowledges to be so received. In this respect, therefore, Jesus Christ is to be 
regarded as the alone active principle of love, whilst the Church exercises only a passive 
principle; but then it is to be considered, that this passive principle is intended to become, 
in its place, an active one, in submission to, and continual dependence on, the Supreme 
Activity of her Divine Lord. 

Jesus Christ says, 
more can you, except you abide in Me. 

As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no 

He teaches by this plainest and most significant of all figures, that His Church, or the 
individuals who compose it, cannot attain to any state of heavenly life and love, with its 
consequent operation, unless by faith and love they attach themselves to their Divine 
Lord, and to His essential mercy and truth. For it is obvious to every one, that the branch 
of a tree cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the parent stock
connection between Jesus Christ and His Church, as has been already shown, is like that 
which subsists between the vine and its branches, therefore it follows, of necessity, that no 
member of the Lord's Church can possibly bear the fruit of saving-life, which is the life of 
love and charity, unless they have perpetual conjunction with the parent stock of love and 
charity, that is to say, with Jesus Christ. 

and since the 
; 
​

He meant to 
am the vine, you are the branches, 
​

When Jesus Christ said to His disciples, I 
declare to them, and through them to all future disciples, the sacred and distinguishing 
relationship which subsisted between Himself and them. He meant, therefore, to announce 
to them the important truth, that they received life continually from Him, even the 
ever-blessed life of love, of wisdom, of charity, of faith, and of every other heavenly 
grace and blessing. He meant, further, to instruct them, that if they were wise, to regard 
Him with mutual affection, by acknowledging gratefully the all of their life to be derived 
from Him, they would then bring forth much fruit; in other words, there would be a 
continual multiplication and increase of all heavenly graces and virtues, and this 
successively, one state of grace and virtue ever giving birth to a new one, and this new 
one to another and another in endless generations. Lastly, He meant to warn them of the 
great danger to which they were exposed of separating their life from His life, or, what is 
the same thing, their love from His love, by informing them, that without Him, or apart 
from Him, they can do nothing; in other words, they can produce no grace or virtue; they 
can bring forth no fruit either of love towards God, or of charity towards men; and, of 
course, they must remain barren and unprofitable branches. 

It is afterwards written, 
withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned. 

If a man abide not in Me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is 

It has already been shown what is meant by abiding in Jesus Christ, and consequently by 
not abiding in Him. Jesus Christ, therefore, teaches in these words the several effects of 
not abiding in Him; first, that he who does not abide in Him, 
by 
is cast forth as a branch, 
​
which is signified, that he has no longer any fellowship, communion, or conjunction of 
life with Jesus Christ; secondly, that he is withered, by which is to be understood, that he 
is deprived of all spiritual love and spiritual wisdom, thus of all spiritual life; thirdly, that 

163 

 
​
​
​
​
​
to denote, that when they are thus cast forth and withered, they are 
men gather them, 
​
brought into association with those in the spiritual world who are in a similar disposition 
with themselves; fourthly, 
by which is represented, that 
that they are cast into the fire, 
​
they are delivered up to the fire of their own cravings, which are nothing else but the 
inordinate love of themselves and of the world; fifthly, that they are burned, by which is 
further represented, that they are left to perish in those cravings. It is, however, well to be 
understood, that all these effects are the necessary results of not abiding in Jesus Christ, 
and thus that they are not to be regarded as punishments inflicted by what is commonly 
called the wrath and vengeance of the Almighty, but rather as the natural consequences of 
the sinner's rejection of all heavenly love and wisdom for government and for guidance. 

Jesus Christ adds, further, 
what you will, and it shall be done to you. 

If you abide in Me, and my words abide in you, you shall ask 

By the words of Jesus Christ, abiding in man, is to be understood, that man endeavours to 
form his whole life, both of will, of understanding, and of work, in agreement with the life 
and spirit of the precepts of Jesus Christ, the result of which abiding is here declared to 
be, that he shall ask what he will, and it shall be done to him, for in this case it will be 
impossible for him to ask or desire anything but what is agreeable to the will of God his 
Saviour, and, therefore, he is sure to have whatsoever he asks or desires, since it is 
connected with Omnipotence, and inspired by that Divine Being of whom it is written, 
He 
shall fulfil the desire of them that fear Him. 
Thus man comes into possession of all that he 
​
can will or wish, since the whole of his will and wish is, that the designs of the Almighty 
may be accomplished, and His 

will be done on earth as it is in heaven. 

We learn, first, from this parable, the near and holy connection subsisting between Jesus 
Christ, ourselves, and all His creatures, by virtue of the reception of the Eternal Truth, of 
which He is the Divine Source and Only Fountain. We learn, further, that this connection 
includes two very different descriptions of people; first, of those in whom it produces its 
proper fruits; and, secondly, of those in whom it produces no fruits. Under the first class 
are included all those who to the knowledge of the Eternal Truth join the love and the 
practice of it, and thus attain conjunction of life with Jesus Christ in His own ever blessed 
spirit of love and charity. Under the second class are included all those who receive the 
knowledge of truth in their understanding, but do not suffer that knowledge to influence 
their wills, their love, and their operation, consequently, who never attain any conjunction 
of life with their God and Saviour, but only what may be called connection with Him by 
virtue of the knowledge which they have admitted into their understandings. We learn, 
further, that with all those who are wise to unite knowledge with the life of knowledge, a 
continual purification takes place in all the principles of their lives, by virtue of their 
conjunction with the Supreme Good, so that a continual separation is effected of all the 
powers of evil, of error, and of misery, and they are gradually elevated to nearer and 
nearer communication with all that is good and wise in the Kingdom of Heaven. Lastly, 
we learn the terrible effects of disjoining knowledge from the life of knowledge, as also 
the happy effects of uniting them together, since, in the first case, man is left to perish in 
the fire of his own cravings, being cast out and separated from all communication with 
heaven and its God; whereas, in the latter case, he obtains the full gratification of all his 
desires, since, being submitted in all things to the divine will and wisdom, he has nothing 
to wish or ask but that that will and wisdom may in all things be accomplished. Let us 
resolve, therefore, from now on to take heed to ourselves, that we may always be found 
abiding in Jesus Christ, and having 

and that thus escaping all the 
Word abiding in us, 
​
​

His
​

164 

 
​
​
​
​
​
 
mischief's arising from the knowledge of truth unpractised and unobeyed, we may finally 
attain to all that infinite happiness resulting from the conjunction of knowledge with the 
life of knowledge, or, what is the same thing, of truth with its good, or, what is still the 
same thing, of faith with charity, or, what is still the same, of ourselves with our Heavenly 
Father. Amen. 

165 

 
 
DAILY PRAYER 

USE OF A FAMILY, 

A PARAPHRASE ON THE LORD'S PRAYER. 

O all-merciful and all-wise father, who have made heaven and earth, and all things 
therein, for the manifestation of your glory, and who are the essential life and all-powerful 
preserver of everything that you have made, we, your sinful children, desire to bow down 
ourselves in unfeigned humility, penitence, and obedience, before you, meekly 
supplicating your divine grace to enable us to perform a true and acceptable worship in 
your sight. With grateful and affectionate hearts we acknowledge that divine mercy, 
which inclined you of old to descend here on earth in the person of Jesus Christ, and thus 
to work redemption for your people, by subduing the Powers of Darkness, by glorifying 
the Human Nature which you were pleased to assume, and by rendering yourself therein 
visible, known, and approachable to your otherwise lost creatures. And whilst we return 
to you our most grateful thanks for this your adorable and most astonishing willing 
descent to our infirmities, we entreat you, with all possible earnestness, to enable us to 
profit by it. For this purpose may we ever cherish, through your most holy influence, a 
just and devout sense of that Divine Humanity in which you now and for ever dwellest, 
and by which alone we can have access to you, or you to us. Grant us thus the grace ever 
more to draw near to the Glorified Person of Jesus Christ, that so we may no longer 
worship an invisible, an unknown, and a distant God, but be convinced, to our everlasting 
comfort, that in the divine body of that Great Redeemer, you are at once visible, known, 
and continually present with your suppliant children. We further adore your infinite 
loving-kindness, in vouchsafing to us the revelation of your most Holy Word, and thus 
bringing near to us all the fullness of your divine will and wisdom, by which alone we can 
hope to recover your lost image and likeness, and to attain a living conjunction with you, 
and you with us. But whilst we confess herein your marvelous and undeserved bounty to 
us, grant us the grace, we beseech you, to use it aright to your glory and our own 
salvation. With this view, may our understandings be opened to see through the letter of 
your sacred councils, into their interior sense of life, in which you reside with all the 
blessings of your kingdom. May our minds thus be formed according to your eternal truth, 
and our wills and affections governed and guarded by its all-purifying, all-illuminating, 
and all-protecting influence. And since we can never hope for the accomplishment of this 
blessed end, unless our 
man be also obedient to your most Holy Commandments, 
outward 
​
grant to us, O Heavenly Father, the additional grace to cease from the practice of all 
known evil, and at the same time to be diligent, faithful, and upright in the discharge of all 
those duties and engagements to which you have been pleased to call us in our several 
stations. May we thus, in all humility and gratitude, receive and incorporate into our lives 
your tender love, and all-enlightening wisdom, that as our bodies are daily nourished by 
the bodily food, which you in your mercy supply, so our souls may be continually 
refreshed and recruited by the more substantial food of your most Holy and Eternal Word. 
Yet since, through the frailty of our corrupt natures, we have been, and frequently are, 
insensible of these your inestimable blessings, and thus grievously sin against you; 
forgive, we entreat you, these our manifold offences, and so dispose our hearts, to a 
continually grateful acknowledgement of your divine mercies, and to a continually 
contrite sense of our own natural un-thankfulness, that we may now on make a due return 
for all your bounty, by seeing, confessing, and rejoicing to confess, that it is your, and that 

166 

 
​
we ourselves, at our best estate, are nothing but unworthy receivers of your precious gifts. 
And may the remembrance of all your unmerited favours ever dispose us to be kind and 
gentle, tender and compassionate, patient and forgiving, just and upright, one towards 
another, that so your divine mercy may circulate freely in us, and we may never obstruct 
in ourselves its heavenly operation. But whereas our own corrupt wills, in this respect, are 
naturally opposite to your will, and much spiritual struggle and conflict must therefore be 
endured before we can be merciful to our fellow-creatures, as you are merciful to us, be 
pleased, O Almighty Saviour, to strengthen and support us in these combats against our 
corruptions, so that, finally, all the deadly evils of our rebellious nature may be softened 
and subdued, and all the graces and virtues of your Holy Spirit and kingdom may be 
implanted in their place. May we thus be enabled to take part with you against ourselves, 
by fighting manfully against the devil, the world, and the flesh. And may we finally, 
through this combat, enter into the joys of spiritual conquest and victory, by experiencing 
a happy deliverance from those powers of darkness to which our sins have subjected us, 
and, at the same time, a triumphant entrance into a blessed communion with you, and 
your holy angels, in that everlasting kingdom, where we shall ever rejoice in ascribing our 
salvation to you alone, joining in the angelic song, and saying, 
was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, 
Amen.  
and blessing. 
​

Worthy is the Lamb that 

We desire to conclude these our imperfect prayers in that most perfect form which you 
yourself have taught us. 

Our Father which are in heaven, hallowed be your name; your kingdom come; your will 
be done in earth, as it is in heaven: give us this day our daily bread; and forgive us our 
debts, as we forgive our debtors: and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil; 
for Thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen. 

167 

 
​
