
=== Junior

This lesson may be used to give the Juniors an idea of the fact that the Second Coming took place about two hundred years ago and was made known in this world by means of the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg. If you present the woman and the dragon as a picture of what is going on in the world now, you will help the children to be proud of their church and to feel a responsibility for resisting the dragon.

John is thought to have been the youngest of the twelve apostles and he outlived all the others. In his old age he was head of the seven Christian churches which had been established in Asia Minor, and during one of the persecutions of the Christians by the Romans he was exiled to the island of Patmos off the coast of Asia Minor. It was there that the Lord gave him the wonderful series of visions which are recorded in the last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation. This book is sometimes also called the Apocalypse, which is the Greek word for revelation.

We should read its first chapter regularly, for it tells of John's vision of the Lord and how the Lord commanded him to write down all that he was to see. The chapters which follow include the messages John was told to give to the seven churches in Asia Minor, the visions of the throne, the sealed book, and the four horsemen, and the opening of the seventh seal. Perhaps you remember that when the seventh seal was opened, seven angels appeared, each having a trumpet, and as each one sounded his trumpet, certain terrible destructions followed. The opening of the seals means the opening of the inner meaning of the Word and the sounding of each trumpet stands for the proclaiming of deeper truth as it was revealed, truth which showed up the evils which people were hiding in their hearts.

Our lesson for today is one of the visions which followed the opening of the last seal.

What did John see first?

What was under the woman's feet? 

What was on her head?

What appeared next?

How many heads did the dragon have?

How many horns?

What did his tail do?

What was the dragon waiting to do? 

How was the woman's child saved? 

Where did the woman go?

Who fought against the dragon?

What was the result?

What were given to the woman to help her?

How did the dragon try to destroy her? 

How did the earth help her?

The book of Revelation is a prophecy of the history of the first Christian Church and of how it would depart from the Lord, just as former churches had done, until it had to be brought to an end and a new church raised up on earth. In our lesson for today the woman is a picture of the New Church which was to be established by the Lord at His Second Coming, and the woman's child is the pure truth of that church. You will study and understand this better as you grow older. But you can understand now what the dragon is. Read Revelation 12:9 and then go back to the beginning of the Bible and read Genesis 3:1-5. You know what it is to be tempted. There is something you want to do which you know is wrong. Your conscience tells you it is wrong. But another little voice from somewhere deep down inside you says: "Oh, that isn't really wrong; everybody does it; your parents are just old—fashioned. Go ahead and do it and see how much fun it will be." That little voice is the voice of the old serpent of selfishness, and if we listen to him and keep doing as he tells us, in time he grows into a great red dragon which seems too powerful for us to fight.

You are fortunate to be brought up in this New Church which John saw in vision and which began to be established on earth about two hundred years ago, when the Lord made His Second Coming. The truths which the Lord has revealed in His Word are available to us now. But our selfishness — "that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan" — tries hard to destroy these truths as fast as they enter our minds. The false arguments which rise in the mind are the "flood" which pours out of the mouth of the dragon. "And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth." If we love the truths of our church and try hard to put them into practice in our lives, our minds will easily see how false the selfish reasonings are and will reject them.

