
=== Notes for Parents

After the Last Supper the Lord charged His disciples to remain true to the teaching He had given them, as they went out to found the Christian Church. The apostles did remain true, but the churches they founded did not. We learn in Revelation 3 and 4 that even before the end of the first century A.D. both false teachings and evils of life had crept into the groups of Christians.

The visions recorded in the book of Revelation were given to the apostle John when he was a very old man. The whole book is a prophetic vision of what would happen in the first Christian Church — of how it would gradually become perverted, as all the churches before it had been, through the selfishness and worldliness of its members, and of how it would finally be judged and brought to its end and a new church raised up to take its place.

The vision which is the subject of our lesson for today tells of the beginning of this new church in heaven and the opposition it would meet on earth. In many places in the Scriptures the church is pictured as a woman — the bride, the Lamb's wife — whose husband is the Lord. So the woman in our chapter stands for the New Church. And all through the Scriptures love of self and especially love of the things of the world is pictured as a serpent, beginning with the story of the Garden of Eden, in which the serpent by his wily argument persuaded Eve to disobey the Lord. In our chapter we learn that the great red dragon is that same "old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world."

The prophecy of this chapter was fulfilled some two hundred years ago, when the Lord in His Second Coming opened the seals of the Word and established the New Church on earth. If we think it strange that so few in the world realize this, we should remember that there are still millions who do not believe that the Lord made His First Coming nearly two thousand years ago. Knowledge of the Lord is never forced upon us. We have to open our minds to it by our own choice, and the old serpent, who over the ages has grown into the great red dragon, is always with us testing our sincerity by attempting with his subtle arguments to destroy the truth. But all those disciples of the Lord who try to "abide" in Him and keep His commandments are protected by the Lord and the angels and, like the woman, are given wings of spiritual understanding to lift them out of the dragon's reach.

