
=== Senior

The same suggestion applies to the Seniors which is made for the Intermediates. A few further points in the correspondence of the chapter are added in the Senior notes.

In the earlier chapters of Revelation the decline of the first Christian Church — by separating itself from the Lord, the true vine — is pictured, and this is followed by visions of a last judgment executed by the Lord's opening of the seals which had sealed the Word. John's vision was prophetic of what actually took place in the spiritual world at the time of the Second Coming of the Lord. Swedenborg tells us that the permanent Christian heavens could not be formed until the deeper truths of the Word were revealed and that all who in the world had professed to be Christians and so believed themselves to be "saved" were allowed to live in "imaginary heavens" until they should see their true states in the light of genuine truth. Then in the Last Judgment the good and the evil were separated, the evil found their way into the hells and the good were taken to their permanent homes in heaven. Swedenborg speaks of this Last Judgment as having taken place in 1757, and he also says that on June 19, 1770, the twelve apostles who had been with the Lord in the world were sent out through the spiritual world to proclaim the doctrines which established the New Church. Then the New Church could begin to appear on earth.

The woman clothed with the sun in our chapter for today is the symbol of the New Church. The sun corresponds to the glory of love to the Lord, in which the New Church appears in heaven. The moon under her feet pictures the intelligence and faith which would be in the people of the New Church on earth. The stars in her crown symbolize knowledges of divine good and truth possessed by this church. We know that often in the Word the church is called a bride and wife, her husband being the Lord.

The child which the woman brought forth stands for the doctrine of the New Church, and the great red dragon which threatened it symbolizes the resistance to the new doctrine from the worldly and selfish reasonings which had developed in the former church, on account of which it had come to its end. This is the same "old serpent" which was responsible for the origin of evil in the world (Genesis 3:1-5) and which caused the decline and fall of each succeeding church — the desire to be guided by self instead of by the Lord and to reason from natural instead of from spiritual considerations.

As New Churchmen you will meet this "dragon" again and again throughout your life in this world. He has grown with the growth of selfishness in man and has become more formidable with the increase of man's knowledge of the physical world and consequent pride in his own abilities. Swedenborg interprets the dragon as meaning specifically the doctrine of "faith alone" of the Reformed Church, which we call Protestant. The essence of this doctrine is that profession of belief in the Lord and reliance upon atonement for men's sins which His death on the cross accomplished will get a person into heaven regardless of what his life in the world has been. Although we know, of course, that many Protestants do not live according to this doctrine, it is still a part of their intellectual belief and serves as a refuge and excuse for those who care more for worldly than for spiritual values. It is also actually the basis of the idea we meet so often that the Lord is so loving and so all-powerful that He will certainly manage to get everyone into heaven someday. In fact we meet the dragon in many modern forms of thought. Since the time of Eden he has acquired seven heads and ten horns. The heads represent every variety of reasoning and the horns represent power. The crown on his heads are the statements from the Word which he twists to support his arguments.

But our chapter shows us plainly, too, how the Lord will help us if we really abide in Him. When the child was born, he was "caught up unto God, and to his throne." The doctrine of the New Church, being taught both in the letter and in the internal sense of the Word, is established in heaven. "Michael and his angels" fought against the dragon and cast him down to the earth. The quotation at the end of this lesson will tell you more of this. The angels are helping us when we resist the dragon. Then two wings of a great eagle were given to the woman and she was given a place in the wilderness where she would be nourished "for a time, and times, and half a time." The wings of an eagle represent the power and protection which come from intellectual sight and thought about spiritual things. The teachings of our church give us this higher understanding which lifts us above worldly things and enables us to see life in its true plan and proportions. And the nourishment of the woman for a time, and times, and half a time pictures the fact that the Lord is protecting and caring for His New Church on earth through its early stages when — so far as its members are concerned — it is small and weak and seems in danger of being destroyed. This is an encouraging thought for us all.

Finally, the earth opened her mouth and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth to destroy the woman.

The flood, like the flood which destroyed the people of the Most Ancient Church, is the great body of falsity developed by selfishness and worldliness. The earth is another symbol of the church, but the church as it has been established in the life of every individual who accepts true doctrine and loves it. To such a person the falsity of the arguments of the dragon is immediately evident and the arguments are dissipated by the known truth in the mind.

