
=== Adult

The story is familiar to most adults. The class will probably be interested in the development of some of the details of the correspondence, as one is apt to read such chapters as these with little thought beyond the impressiveness of the story in the letter.

---
For the purpose of our present lesson only two review points need be especially mentioned. One is that David's reign was one of almost continuous fighting, resulting in the virtual conquest of all the enemies which had been troubling Israel. The other is that, although David brought the ark to Jerusalem, he was forbidden to build the temple there. We learn from 1 Kings 5:3 that the reason was that he was in the midst of wars, and 1 Chronicles 22:8 and 28:3 say that it was because he had been a man of war and had shed blood. The reign of David represents the period when we are engaged in temptation conflicts — forty signifies temptation — and, although these conflicts are the necessary preparation which we ourselves with the help of the Lord make for regeneration, they are not regeneration. Regeneration is the inflow of the Lord's unselfish love into the heart from which self-love has been cast out. The building of the temple is the building of regenerate or heavenly character, the house of the Lord in the individual, and this is the work of the inflowing divine love. We recall that when the temple was built, the stones were prepared before they were brought to the site "so that there was neither hammer nor ax nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building." (1 Kings 6:7) The temple rose silently, just as a regenerate character is built in us by the Lord quietly after we make the necessary preparation. David's conquests prepared the way, but David could not build the temple. "The kingdom of heaven cometh not with observation" (Luke 17:20).

The name Solomon means "peace." Solomon's reign was one of peace, and it pictures the fully regenerate state, the state of glorification in the Lord and its analogue, regeneration in man. It is the state in which self has been so brought under control that the commandments of the Lord are written on the heart, and the life is one of willing and joyous service to the Lord and the neighbor. Solomon, in his dream at Gibeon (1 Kings 3:5-15), had asked for "an understanding heart," and the Lord had granted his petition and promised him also riches and honor and long life.

Our two chapters for today in their inner meaning describe the spiritual riches and honors which a regenerate person enjoys. They begin, we should note, with a solemn charge to be faithful, and a warning against falling away from the high state attained. Then comes the curious incident of Solomon's gift of twenty cities in Galilee to Hiram, the king of Tyre, and Hiram's displeasure with the cities; in spite of which he sends Solomon "six score talents of gold." Hiram represents the external man. In all Solomon's building Hiram had furnished him with beautiful cedar from Lebanon and skilled workmen. This pictures the fact that our character is built only by making use of everything that is good and suitable and capable in our natural knowledges and faculties. We recall that the tabernacle was constructed of materials "borrowed" from the Egyptians. In return, the internal man, or rather the Lord through the internal man, gives the external "twenty cities in the land of Galilee," all the heavenly doctrines needed for use in external living. Hiram's distaste for these cities pictures the inherent inability of the external man to understand and appreciate heavenly things. Yet the external man, in the regenerate state, attributes all its goodness to the Lord: this is Hiram's giving of the six score talents of gold.

Solomon is a builder. The regenerate man is not a destroyer; he restores the cities others have destroyed. And some of the cities he builds are "cities of store" where truths and goods are stored up for use in time of need. Solomon also erected other buildings, his own house, and a house for his wife, the daughter of Pharaoh. But we note that the house he built for her was not in Jerusalem. Pharaoh's daughter represents the affection for natural knowledges, an essential "helpmeet" but dwelling outside the Holy City.

Chapter 9 ends with the account of Solomon's navy, the first navy and the only successful one ancient Israel ever possessed. The regenerate man is able to communicate with those outside his own religious borders and to bring back treasures from these contacts.

Chapter 10 begins with the well—known visit of the queen of Sheba to Solomon. Swedenborg says (@AC 3048) that Sheba signifies "knowledges of things celestial and spiritual." The fact that this kingdom was outside the Holy Land indicates that it represents knowledges possessed by the Gentiles. And it is interesting to find that the Sheba who was the father of this nation is identified as the grandson of Eber, who is mentioned in Genesis 10:28. Eber, according to Swedenborg, is the first real person mentioned in the Scriptures, the ancestor from whom the Hebrews took their name, and the founder of the second Ancient Church. It is therefore quite natural that there should have been in that country remains of the knowledges of celestial and spiritual things. The queen of Sheba had treasures to bring to Solomon. What is said of the spices she brought is especially interesting, because spices correspond to "interior truths in the natural which are from the good there" (@AC 4748). Swedenborg often speaks of the Gentiles as being in good more than those of the church. But the queen of Sheba also had questions which only Solomon could answer.

Thinking of Solomon as the fully regenerate man, we understand why there is so much mention of gold in these chapters, since love in the heart is the impelling motive of such a man. We can also understand why silver "was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon." It was not because truth was despised but because it was so plentiful and so easy of attainment. Verse 27 expresses this by saying that the king "made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones." "And cedars made he to be as the sycamore trees that are in the vale, for abundance," expresses the wealth of rational thought which is possible to the regenerate man. This is also clearly pictured in Solomon's throne. A throne always denotes judgment. It was made of ivory overlaid with pure gold, the rational truth of the natural man used as a foundation for the expression of celestial good — the wise and understanding heart. It was reached by an ascent of six steps, the successive victories which lead to such a state, and each step and the throne itself were guarded on either side by a lion, the power of mind and heart which the Lord alone can give. Have we not all recognized the power of clear—sighted judgment possessed by a truly good man? His judgment sits enthroned above the confused tangle of worldly ideas and reasonings. "So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom. And all the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart."

