
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The general correspondence of the three kings and the meaning and effect of the possession of a wise and understanding heart are the important subjects for this class.

---
David reigned forty years in all, and his reign was one of constant fighting. You remember that forty pictures a state of temptation. We have to pass through many temptations and to overcome many selfish feelings and false ideas before we reach a state of peace. The name Solomon means "peace." Solomon had no enemies to fight because David had conquered them. Solomon was greater than David, but his greatness was founded on David's victories. We cannot jump from ignorance to wisdom without passing through a long period of study, and we cannot pass from selfishness to unselfishness without overcoming many temptations.

Solomon was David's favorite son and was anointed, by David's command, just before David died. Early in his reign the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream and offered to grant him whatever he most wished. Solomon asked for "an understanding heart." The Lord was pleased with the wish and said that because Solomon had asked for this instead of for riches and power for himself, he should have a wise and understanding heart and also riches and honor and long life.

Think what a wise and understanding heart means. It means a heart full of love for other people with wisdom to understand and help them. If a person has such a heart, he is not always thinking about himself, envying other people, and unhappy because he cannot have everything he wants. And because his dearest wish is to be helpful to the Lord and the neighbor and there are always thousands of ways of doing that — no matter what one's own circumstances are — he can always have more and more of what he most wants. And also he is loved and honored by other people, and people come to him with their problems and troubles.

Do you see how our two chapters for today picture just such a life? Solomon did a great deal of building. First he had built the temple of the Lord in Jerusalem and then he built houses for himself and for his wife, who was the daughter of the Pharaoh of Egypt. And he rebuilt cities which had been destroyed by earlier enemies. A person who is genuinely desirous to help others builds first the temple of the Lord in his own character and then is constantly helping to build happy lives for other people. In this he is able to to make use of all the natural knowledges and powers available, just as Solomon used the beautiful cedar wood and the skilled workmen sent him by Hiram king of Tyre. He has all the rational knowledge and principles he needs, as Solomon had horses and chariots. Every faculty of mind and body is able and willing to serve his purpose, as Solomon had his ministers and his attendants and his cupbearers. His judgment is established on a high and firm throne and he has power to maintain it; this is pictured by the lions on either side of Solomon's throne and on either side of the six steps which led up to it. Solomon's navy — the first and the only successful navy of Israel — pictures his ability to procure ideas and services from many other people. And throughout the description notice how often gold is mentioned and remember that gold corresponds to love.

The familiar story of the visit of the queen of Sheba to Solomon sums up the honor in which he was held. She came from a distant country and brought him very valuable presents, just as the magi did who came to worship the Lord when He was born. She had heard even in her far-off land of the glory and wisdom of Solomon, and when she had seen and talked with him, she said that the half had not been told her. This story teaches us that even those of great attainments have yet something to learn. The riches and knowledges of the world and the human mind seem very wonderful to us at first, but if we "follow on to know the Lord," as the prophet Hosea puts it (Hosea 6:3), we finally come to know and to possess the true riches.

