
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors will be interested in a brief review of David's relations with Saul and the accomplishments of his reign. Make this an introduction to the greater glory of the peaceful reign of Solomon. Have the children do map study and look up the Bible references.

---
David was a fighting king. Even while Saul was still living, the people came to trust David rather than Saul. This made Saul so jealous that he tried to kill David. Bur Saul's son Jonathan loved David and helped him to escape. David had to live in exile for many years, but he never worked against Saul. He gathered a band of fighting men around him and won victories for Israel. Finally Saul and Jonathan were killed in battle and David became king. He was crowned first in Hebron and reigned there seven years over the southern part of the land. One of Saul's sons was made king over the northern tribes, but his reign did not prosper and after he was killed the whole country accepted David, crowning him again at Jerusalem. In all he reigned forty years. He brought the ark to Jerusalem and wanted to build a temple for it, but the Lord told him the temple was to be built by his son; so he placed the ark in a new tabernacle. Under David the Israelites conquered all their enemies and became a leading nation.

Who was the third king of Israel?

David had several sons older than Solomon, but he had chosen Solomon to succeed him on the throne; so before he died, he had Solomon anointed. The name Solomon means "peace." The story of David's reign is full of wars and fighting, but when Solomon came to the throne, the few enemies within the land who had not been destroyed were paying tribute to the king of Israel, and the kings and queens in all the surrounding nations looked to Israel as the leading nation of the district.

Solomon himself was sought out by all for his glory and wisdom. For in the beginning of his reign he had taken advantage of an opportunity to make a very wise choice. Read 1 Kings 3:5-15. Chapters 5 and 6 of 1 Kings tell of the building of the temple at Jerusalem, and chapter 7 tells of other structures which Solomon built. In all his building he received help from a friend of his father David, who is mentioned again in our lesson today.

Who was this friend?

What did he furnish king Solomon?

What did Solomon give Hiram?

Whose daughter was Solomon's first wife?

What did Solomon do with the enemies who were left in the Holy Land?

Read 1 Kings 9:26-28. This is the first time we have heard of the Israelites having ships.

What queen came to see Solomon?

Sheba was a kingdom in the southwestern corner of the Arabian peninsula along the Red Sea, the district now known as Yemen. In those days it was a long journey away from the land of Canaan. Why did the queen of Sheba come to Solomon?

What did she bring him?

What did she say after she had seen and talked with him?

Read carefully the description of Solomon's throne in verses 18 to 20 of chapter 10.

What metal is most prominent in the description of Solomon's treasures? What is said about silver?

If you think of all the enemies in the Holy Land as picturing the selfish and wrong things in us which the Lord wants us to fight, you can see that Solomon's reign is a picture of the peaceful, happy, beautiful state of a person who has overcome his temptations. Such a person has a heart full of love for the Lord and the neighbor and is very wise. Everyone goes to him for advice because he has what Solomon asked for: "a wise and understanding heart." The reason gold is so prominent in the description of Solomon's treasures is because gold is the symbol of love.

