
=== Notes for Parents

The lesson today is about Solomon, the last king to reign over the whole nation, the third and greatest of her kings. The children need to hear often the names Saul, David, and Solomon, so that they will know them well. Like the names Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, they are landmarks in the Bible story. Not only are they mentioned again and again in the Bible — in the New as well as in the Old Testament — but the two periods of the patriarchs and the kings are the high points of the Old Testament story, as childhood and the fullness of maturity are the two high points in our lives. Jewish history began with Abraham and led up to Solomon. The life of each one of us begins with the beautiful, innocent, trustful state of infancy and, if we choose wisely, culminates in the peaceful and glorious state which is pictured by Solomon.

For Solomon's reign is the picture of a heavenly or regenerate character, and the name Solomon means "peace." Most of us know some fine, upright, wise old person whom everyone in the community admires and praises, to whom everyone may go for advice, sure of a sympathetic hearing and wise judgment. The character of such a person has not been developed overnight. It is the result of a lifetime of effort to learn and do the Lord's will. Our first impulse is to say, "I wish I could hope to be like that when I am old." We can if we are willing to follow the same course. Saul and David were fighting kings. They overcame the enemies and made the glorious reign of Solomon possible.

In Solomon's reign the fruits of victory were enjoyed. All sorts of treasures were brought to him. The few enemies that remained in the land paid the "tribute of bond-service," and all his own people served him, each in his proper station. Kings and queens, like the queen of Sheba in our lesson, came to hear his wisdom. And in his time the temple was built at Jerusalem, the house of God in the heart and mind. This is the picture of the heavenly character which is the true goal of every human life.

