
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the unique power possessed by the person who has attained a heavenly character. It is especially important for young people of this age to see clearly the beauty and value of such an ideal. Even to see it as an ideal will often help them to recognize evil for what it is and to reject it.

---
The reign of Solomon was the high point in ancient Hebrew history. In Solomon's time all the alien peoples living in the Holy Land paid tribute to Solomon, and the kings and queens of other nations came to Jerusalem to see his glory and to hear his wisdom.

We have seen that the history of the Jews throughout is a divinely directed and recorded picture of the course of our individual lives as well as of the life of the human race as a whole and inmostly of the Lord's life on earth. Each of us starts, as this nation started in Abraham, from a small ignorant beginning, with a nature full of self-love and conceit, but with a call to follow the Lord and a promise that, if we obey Him faithfully, He will care for us and bring us eventually to all happiness. We go on as they did with many backslidings, many mistakes and failures, many battles, and some victories. But if we keep trying, looking always to the Lord for help, we shall gradually come into an orderly state of life, overcome our spiritual enemies — first the external and then the deep inner temptations — and eventually attain a heavenly character, which means that our hearts will finally be full of the Lord's unselfish love, our minds will delight in His truth, and our outer lives will be rich in service to the Lord and the neighbor.

When we are young, we are able to recognize the beauty of such a character, but the things of the world make such a strong appeal to us that sometimes we are not sure the attainment of goodness is worth the sacrifices involved. The picture of Solomon's glory is given us in the Word as an answer to this doubt. It took a long time to reach the Solomon stage. It takes any one of us a long time to reach the inner peace and beauty of a heavenly character, but it is the only thing really worth the effort of a lifetime. All the worldly successes we may gain will pass away, but heavenly character may be ours to eternity.

Solomon's reign was a reign of peace — the name Solomon means "peace." When we have learned to love to do the Lord's will, we no longer have to struggle against evil in our hearts. We are at peace. We still have weaknesses and limitations, but we have control of them (9:20-21); all our faculties give willing and orderly service to our spiritual life (9:22-23). All the things we have learned about the natural world become serviceable to us and find their proper place in our spiritual thinking (9:11). Our minds range over the whole field of learning and bring back treasures (9:26-28). Solomon's navy was the first and the only successful navy the nation ever possessed. Some sixty or more years later their navy was lost under King Jehoshaphat (1 Kings 22:48). Belief in the Lord and in His providence is the only principle which enables us to see things in their true proportions and relationships. When this belief is weakened, our "navy" is lost.

And Solomon's glory and wisdom made an impression on all the world around him. In 1 Kings 4:34 it is said, "And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisdom." The example we know of these visits is that of the queen of Sheba, described in our chapters for today. Swedenborg says that Sheba represents "the celestial things of love and faith," and that the gifts which the queen of Sheba brought, "the camels that bare spices, and very much gold, and precious stones" (1 Kings 10:2), represent "the things of wisdom and intelligence in the natural man" (@AC 3048). And Solomon's throne is a picture of the loftiness and power of the judgment which is possible to those in true heavenly states. Such people make a deep impression on others by their wisdom and understanding.

The person who has passed through the states of reformation and regeneration to the point of character represented by Solomon inevitably stands out above his fellows and is aptly described in 1 Kings 10:23, 24: "So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom. And all the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart."

