
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AC 1949: "He shall be a wild—donkey man. That this signifies rational truth, which is described, is evident from the signification of 'a wild-donkey,' as being rational truth. In the Word there is frequent mention of horses, horsemen, mules, and donkeys; and as yet no one has known that these signify things of the intellect, of the reason, and of memory-knowledge. That these animals and their riders have such a signification will of the Lord's Divine mercy be fully confirmed in the proper places. Of the same class is the 'onager,' for this is the mule of the wilderness, or wild—donkey, and it signifies man's rational; not however the rational in its whole complex, but only rational truth. The rational consists of good and truth, that is, of things belonging to charity and of things belonging to faith, and it is rational truth that is signified by the 'wild—donkey.' This then is what is represented by Ishmael,and is what is described in this verse. It seems incredible that rational truth when separated from good should be of such a character, neither should I have known this to be the case unless I had been instructed by living experience. Whether you say rational truth, or the man whose rational is of this kind, amounts to the same. The man whose rational is of such a character that he is solely in truth — even though it be the truth of faith — and who is not at the same time in the good of charity, is altogether of such a character. He is a morose man, will bear nothing, is against all, regards everybody as being in falsity, is ready to rebuke, to chastise, and to punish; has no pity, and does not apply or adapt himself to others and study to bend their minds; for he looks at everything from truth, and at nothing from good. Hence it is that Ishmael was driven out, and afterwards dwelt in the wilderness, and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt (Genesis 21:9-21); all of which things are representative of one who is endowed with such a rational."

