
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
A profitable discussion topic is the attitude of the scribes and Pharisees toward the Lord and its counterpart in our modern world. One of the prime tasks of the New Church is to counteract the prevailing superficial materialistic trend. The new wine of which the Lord spoke is spiritual truth, and this cannot be confined in materialistic forms of thought.

---
As we saw in our lesson on chapter 1, the impression made by Mark's Gospel is that of the sudden appearance of the Lord at the beginning of His ministry. So we are almost immediately confronted with the miracles and with the reaction of the scribes and Pharisees against the new prophet to whom all the common people were flocking. John the Baptist had prepared the way of the Lord literally as well as spiritually. Because John dwelt in the wilderness and wore the hairy mantle of the prophets, and especially because nothing he said or did interfered with the position or convenience of the scribes and Pharisees, they had been willing enough to recognize John's claim to be a prophet. In fact, we can imagine that the appearance of such an authentic prophet after four hundred years in which the prophetic voice had been silent might be regarded as a strengthening of the position of religious orthodoxy. But now a person appears of very unorthodox demeanor who nevertheless has the sanction of John. As we learn later (Mark 11:29-32), they were afraid to discredit John because he had been generally accepted as a prophet. So it was a long time before they dared to do more than harass the Lord.

Swedenborg tells us that the miracles could be wrought among the people of that day because they would not interfere with their freedom, as they would have with people of greater spiritual sensitiveness. We read in Luke 10:13, "Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you, they had a great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and ashes." But the scribes and Pharisees could witness the miracles and merely say, "He hath Beelzebub, and by the prince of devils casteth he out devils." (Mark 3:22) The Lord never performed miracles to create faith. Faith had to be present before the miracle was performed. We read in connection with Nazareth, "He did not do many mighty works there because of their unbelief." (Matthew 13:58) The Lord did have compassion on the sick and maimed and obsessed, and He healed as many as were in humble and receptive states, but we are told that the miracles were wrought principally for the sake of the Word, that they might serve as pictures of the works of healing which the Lord can perform in our souls.

This is clearly illustrated in the miracle performed in our chapter. When the palsied man on his bed was let down through the roof into the Lord's presence, we read, "When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee." His first concern was with the state of the man's faith and His second with the removal of his sins. Then he healed the man of his sickness "that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins." There is a lesson in this miracle for us. The man had faith but could not walk. We often mean to do right but somehow are too weak to carry out our good intentions. We fall back on the mental "bed" we have made to support us in our weakness, excusing ourselves on the ground of our inherited limitations or of our worldly environment or of the provocation under which we labor. If we look to the Lord for help, He shows us that we must first fully trust Him, then recognize that the fault is our own and desire to be forgiven, and finally that we must "take up our bed and walk" in the strength that He can give us.

Our chapter is really a series of encounters with the scribes and Pharisees. They were present at the miracle and objected to the Lord's claim to the power to forgive sins. The physical miracle silenced them only temporarily. When the Lord called a despised publican to be one of His disciples, Levi or Matthew (Matthew 9:9), they immediately found occasion to criticize Him for consorting with publicans and sinners. The new prophet was not following their pattern and so became a threat. The Lord's answer reminds us of the story of Jonah's experience when he refused to take the Lord's message to Nineveh. The religious leaders were proud, hard, contemptuous of everyone outside their own class and especially of Gentiles. We recall the Lord's condemnation of them in Matthew 23:13-33. The Lord is "no respecter of persons" (i.e., He does not show partiality). Humility and need are the gateway to His mercy. The scribes and Pharisees could not answer Him. They knew He was right. But their opposition was merely turned into another channel.

The next attack was on the fact that the Lord's disciples did not fast, and here they took pains to remind Him that the disciples of John did fast. And the Lord pointed out to them that fasting has a meaning and a purpose and that apart from its meaning it is of no value. Fasting, Swedenborg says, is a representation of sorrow, especially of sorrow during temptation. The Lord Himself fasted during the forty days' temptation in the wilderness. But the consciousness of the Lord's presence brings only joy to His disciples. Fasting under such circumstances would be a mockery.

The same distinction between substance and shadow is made in answer to the final complaint in this chapter in regard to the observance of the sabbath. The Lord did not say that either fasting or the sabbath is to be abandoned. Each is to be observed in the time and way for which it was ordained. The individual human soul is the thing in whose interest all observances were commanded, and the way in which these observances are to be kept is the way which promotes the welfare of the soul. The church then was an empty shell, merely the representative of a church, with no spiritual life within it. The Lord came to restore the church, to fulfill the Law and the Prophets, to live out before men the divine truth contained within them. Observance of the old outward forms was not adequate to express the spiritual power which He brought down to men. We know that for the Christian Church the sacrament of baptism is substituted for all the ceremonial washings of the ancient Jewish Church, and the sacrament of the Lord's Supper for all the sacrifices and feasts. There are laws, such as the ten commandments, whose letter can never be abrogated because they are the basic general laws of divine order. But most of the Old Testament ceremonial and civil laws took their literal form, as the Lord noted concerning the law of divorce, "because of the hardness of their hearts."

The teaching of the whole chapter is summed up in verses 21 and 22. (See the quotation from @AE 376[28] below.) We need to remember this teaching in our thought about the New Church in its relation to the first Christian Church. When the Lord came into the world He brought new "wine," new truth from the Divine. It required new forms of expression, new "bottles." When He came the second time, He again brought new "wine" and the old forms will not contain it. The new truths revealed in the opened Word vastly expand our concept of our duty to the Lord and the neighbor. They cannot be lived adequately within the boundaries and forms of other churches. While there are all over the world in all religions people who "will be" of the New Church in the other life, they are not yet of that Church. With them the old "bottles" are merely being broken by the new "wine." There must be the specific New Church in the world to keep the new "wine" from being spilled and lost. The organized New Church is a new "bottle" with which its members are entrusted.

