
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are several important lessons in correspondence here, especially the palsy, the wine, and the "bottles" or wineskins. The meaning of verses 21 and 22 can be discussed in connection with the lesson on the sabbath.

---
The first chapter of Mark tells us that after His baptism and His forty days' temptation in the wilderness the Lord went about Galilee preaching in the synagogues and healing all manner of diseases. The Lord did heal the sick, but we know that it was the souls of the people rather than their bodies in which He was primarily interested and that His physical healings were a picture of what He can do and wants to do for our souls. It is a good thing to have a healthy body if we use our bodies for good purposes. Our bodies are tools given us for use in this world and we should take care of them just as a good workman takes care of his tools, but the really important thing is what we make or build with our tools.

In the Scriptures diseases always picture spiritual weaknesses, each disease a different weakness. In our chapter for today we have the story of the man who was sick of the palsy. Palsy or paralysis pictures the inability to carry out our good intentions. We often know what is right and say that we want to do it, but we just can't seem to make ourselves do it. This is spiritual palsy. Notice that the Lord pointed out that the first need the man had was to get rid of his sins. Then He told him to take up his bed and walk. We need first to acknowledge that the failure to do right is our own fault — not the fault of our inheritance or of anything in the world around us — and then we must force ourselves to do what we know we ought to do. If you have forgotten the Lord's charge to Joshua, re—read Joshua 1:7.

Then in our lesson we have the calling of another disciple. The first four, you remember, were fishermen, but this one was a tax collector, or publican, an occupation despised by the Jews because they hated the Roman rule and taxation. You may wonder why we do not hear more of this Levi, as we do of Peter and some of the others. But Levi had another name by which we know him well. Read Matthew 9:9.

The scribes and Pharisees were afraid of this new preacher whom the people were flocking to hear. They had always been considered the authorities as to the Law and they were very jealous of their authority. So they constantly looked for some breaking of the Law of which they might accuse the Lord. The Gospels frequently tell of the Lord's encounters with the scribes and Pharisees. The Lord called them hypocrites (Matthew 23:13-33), and He always was able to answer their criticisms in such a way as to silence them. Even when they put Him to death, He rose again from the dead. In our chapter they first accuse Him of eating with publicans and sinners and He merely points out — what they cannot deny — that the duty of a preacher, as of a physician, is to help those who need his help. The religious leaders despised all who were different from themselves. You remember how Jonah resisted the Lord's command to preach to the people of Nineveh. The Scriptures, both the Old and the New Testaments, are full of condemnations of the church for its attitude toward Gentiles. No one who sets himself up as better than other people is in a state to receive instruction or help from the Lord.

The next fault the scribes and Pharisees found was with the fact that the Lord's disciples did not fast. The Lord answered this time by pointing out that there is a time for everything and that His disciples were not in any need of fasting so long as He was with them. Fasting is a symbol of sorrow, especially sorrow during temptation. The Lord Himself fasted during the forty days of His temptation in the wilderness. But the disciples were happy when they were with the Lord; so during His lifetime on earth there would have been no point in their fasting.

The Lord sums up this teaching in the verses about the new cloth and the new wine. Garments picture truths with which we clothe our affections. When we receive new truth, everything in our old ideas which is not in agreement with it has to go. For example, people used to think that the earth was flat. Maps were drawn with this in mind and you can imagine how everything had to be changed when they discovered that the earth is round. New wine is a picture of new spiritual truth, new truth about the Lord and our relation to Him. Up to this time, people had always thought of God as like themselves in the sense of wanting praise and glory for Himself, loving only those who served and flattered Him, and punishing those who disobeyed Him. In addition to the Law given them in the Word, the scribes and Pharisees had built up a man-made system of rules of all kinds which they made the people obey. These were the old "bottles" which the new "wine" would break.

We have another clear example of what the Lord meant in the last few verses of our chapter. The Pharisees had made the sabbath a very hard and trying day. Others have sometimes done this too. Perhaps you have read how the Puritans in the early days of America thought the sabbath should be observed. Such mistakes come from putting more importance on outward than on inward things. All through His ministry the Lord was condemned by the Pharisees for "breaking" the sabbath, because He went about freely on that day, healed the sick, and did whatever was necessary to help others. The fact was that the sabbath of the Pharisees was an old bottle that had to be broken.

The Lord, when He said "the sabbath was made for man," did not do away with the sabbath: He merely told us what it is for. In Luke 4:16 we read, "As his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day." The sabbath is a day set apart for the special purpose of learning of the Lord, joining in public worship, resting from the rush of our worldly activities, and doing some of those kind and helpful things for which we do not have time during the week. It should be different from every other day of the week, but it should be our happiest day because it should bring us closer to the Lord and to each other. The commandments had to be given in the negative because it is so easy for us to carry our weekday habits and occupations over into Sunday and so to spoil it for its real use; but we should get over the old idea of Sunday as a day on which we are not to do this or that, and think of it as our opportunity to do the most important things of all.

