
=== Junior

This is a good opportunity to discuss the New Testament division of the Holy Land, comparing it with the earlier division between Israel and Judah and with the even earlier division among the twelve tribes. We shall not be using a map much in our study of Mark, but the children need to have the geography clearly in mind. Have the class look up the Bible references. Explain who the scribes, Pharisees, and publicans were, and the nature of the "bottles" [KJV]. Emphasize the purpose of the sabbath.

Where was the Lord brought up?

Who was sent to prepare his way?

How did He prepare it?

In what river did John baptize?

During the three years of His ministry the Lord made His headquarters at Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee. At this time the Holy Land was divided into three districts, Judea, Samaria, and Galilee. The greatest concentration of people was in Judea, although there were many Jews in the northern part of the land also. Samaria was largely occupied by the descendants of the "strangers" brought in from the east when Assyria conquered Israel. Galilee was called "Galilee of the Gentiles" because there were so many Greeks and other foreigners there. Bethlehem and Jerusalem were in Judea, Nazareth and Capernaum in Galilee. Most of the Lord's ministry was in Galilee, but He went down to Jerusalem for the great feasts, going and coming through Samaria, and also frequently crossing the Jordan or the Sea of Galilee into the territory on the other side, which was called Perea by the Romans.

Which of the twelve tribes had originally settled in this cross—Jordan country?

Who were the first four disciples of the Lord?

Where did He find them?

After the Lord's baptism He went about Galilee preaching in the synagogues and healing all kinds of diseases. In our lesson for today He has come back to Capernaum. Because of His miracles of healing His fame had grown and people in Capernaum flocked to see Him and brought their sick to be healed.

What miracle is described in our chapter?

Palsy is a form of paralysis and this man was so palsied that he was not able to walk.

How was he brought within reach of the Lord?

What did the Lord do for him first?

What did the scribes think?

How did the Lord silence them?

The scribes were men who copied the Scriptures — printing had not yet been invented — and also various commentaries written by the rabbis. They prided themselves on their knowledge of the Law and were looked up to as authorities. And the Pharisees were the sect who placed great weight on observing every little detail not only of the Law but of the sayings of the rabbis. The Lord called both the scribes and the Pharisees hypocrites. Read what He says about them in Matthew 23:13-33, especially verses 23 to 28. The scribes and Pharisees were jealous of anyone who seemed to be drawing the attention and respect of the people. They saw in the Lord a threat to their own authority, and throughout His ministry they tried in every possible way to find fault and to lead Him into saying something which they could use against Him.

In this chapter whom did the Lord call to be His disciple?

What was this man's business?

The publicans were Jews who earned their living by collecting the taxes imposed on the Jews by Rome. The Jews of course resented the Roman rule and also the taxation, and so they despised any of their own people who went into this occupation. Look up Matthew 9:9 to see who this Levi was whom the Lord called to be His disciple. As we learned in our lesson on the first chapter of Mark, it was not uncommon for a man to have two names and to be called sometimes by one and sometimes by the other.

What fault did the scribes and Pharisees now find with the Lord?

How did the Lord answer?

The only people whom the Lord cannot help are those who are so satisfied with themselves that they think they do not need His help. We should constantly be on our guard against becoming self-satisfied because this, above everything else, closes the door of our souls against the Lord.

What was the next criticism of the Lord?

The Lord's answer may seem hard to understand unless we think of what fasting is and why people fast. Literally fasting means going without food or at least without certain foods we especially like. People fast when they are physically sick or when they are feeling very sorrowful. The fasts of Bible days were prescribed to bring the people into a state of repentance and humility. So the disciples of John did fast. But the Lord's presence always made His disciples happy and as long as He was with them they could not grieve or fast. Read John 15:11.

Now let us see what the Lord meant by verses 21 and 22. We can very easily understand about the cloth because we all know how thin and weak the edges of a hole in old cloth are. To understand about the "bottles" we need to know that they were not the kind of bottles we use, but wineskins, made of the skins of animals, usually goats, drawn off very carefully and tied tightly at the legs so that they would hold liquid. These skins of course gradually wore thin and might easily break under the fermenting pressure of new wine. But we should know that both these verses are parables with a deeper meaning within the letter. Read again Matthew 23:23. The old garment and the old wineskin were like the tithes which the scribes and Pharisees made so important that they forgot "the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith" which were the real "wine" inside. The Lord came to bring to men a new understanding of what goodness is, goodness of heart, kindness, unselfishness, service of the Lord and the neighbor. These were the new "cloth" to be woven, the new "wine" which could not be contained in the old formal observances of rites and ceremonies. What was the final complaint in this chapter against the Lord?

In this case the Lord silenced His accusers by reminding them that David himself, who was their great hero, had broken the sabbath in the sense in which they were using it. We need to read this part of the lesson carefully. The Lord, when He said that the sabbath was made for man, was not doing away with the sabbath. He was pointing out why it was ordained. It is set apart so that we may have time to learn of the Lord and do things for others which we have no time for during the week. The Lord often healed on the sabbath day. He was criticized for it, but His way of using the sabbath was a "new bottle" to hold the "new wine" He brought.

