
=== Primary

Although this lesson is oriented toward the latter part of the chapter, it is suggested that the better passage for the teacher to read aloud is the story of the healing of the palsied man, which will be easier for the children to understand. However, they can understand verses 21 and 22 in the literal sense and will be interested in what "bottles" [KJV] were in those days. Be sure they understand who the scribes and Pharisees and the publicans (tax collectors) were.

Where did the Lord grow up?

Who was sent to prepare the people to receive Him?

How did John prepare them?

You remember how the Lord came to John the Baptist to be baptized. That was the first time most of the people had seen Him, but He soon became known to many as He went about through Galilee doing good. He preached in the synagogues, and He healed many sick people who were brought to Him.

In our lesson today the Lord had come back to Capernaum.

The first part of the chapter tells about how He healed a man who had the palsy and was paralyzed so that he had to be carried about on a bed.

The people all flocked about the Lord.

You can imagine how eager people were to see the Lord and how they listened to what He taught them. But you know there are always people who want to be important themselves and don't like to see people paying attention to someone else. In the Lord's time the scribes and Pharisees were like that. The scribes were the men who knew how to read and write and spent most of their time copying the books of the Law and the Prophets, and so thought they knew more than anyone else. And the Pharisees were a group who prided themselves on keeping every little bit of the Law. They set themselves up as the most religious people in the country and thought everyone ought to obey them. So the scribes and Pharisees were always finding fault with the Lord and asking why He didn't do just as they did. Our chapter tells about some of their foolish complaints.

What fault did they find first?

What was the Lord's answer to this complaint?

The publicans were hated because they earned their living by collecting taxes for the Romans from their own people.

The Lord came to help all who really wanted help.

What was the next complaint against Him?

What did He answer?

He could not be hindered in His work by the silly rules of the Pharisees. He compared these rules to old cloth into which you could not put a new piece, and to old wine skins too weak to hold new wine. The "bottles" [KJV] of that day were not glass bottles such as we have, but the skins of animals drawn off whole and then tied tightly at the legs so that they would hold liquid.

New ideas necessarily change our ways of living.

The Lord came to give a new understanding of what real goodness is. The old ways did not fit this new understanding.

