
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
It is important for the young people to understand why we do not keep all the laws of the Old Testament in the letter and the difference between the ancient Jewish and the early Christian churches. This can be brought out well by a discussion of the meaning of the new wine and the old "bottles" or wineskins. Be sure that they understand that all the laws in the Old Testament are still valid in their internal meaning, and that the ten commandments still hold in their letter also.

---
In our lesson on the first chapter of Mark we considered principally the mission of John the Baptist and the meaning of the Lord's baptism. But that chapter, after mentioning the Lord's forty days' temptation in the wilderness and the calling of the first four disciples, goes immediately to the account of some of the Lord's miracles. The Gospel of Mark is the shortest of the Gospels and omits some of the important events and teachings of the others, but it contains almost as many of the stories of the miracles as do Matthew and Luke. It was the reports of the Lord's miracles which made the people flock to see and hear Him wherever He went. But we are not left in any real doubt as to the purpose of the miracles. The emphasis is steadily on the casting out of evil and falsity from the heart and mind and restoring the person to usefulness.

Our chapter for today begins with the healing of the palsied man, in which the Lord's first concern is with the man's sins. Palsy or paralysis is a picture of inability to walk in right ways. Spiritually we are all subject to this disease. We mean to lead good lives but we often fail to live up to our good intentions. A bed is a symbol of "doctrine." Doctrine may be religious truth or it may be a system of thinking derived from our environment and past experience. When we excuse ourselves for our shortcomings by saying, "Everybody does it," or "I can't change my nature," or "Under the circumstances anyone would have acted as I did," we are lying down on our bed and letting others carry us. When we come to the Lord for help, the first step is to acknowledge that the sin is ours and that we need forgiveness, and the next step is to get up on our own feet spiritually and pick up the bed on which we have been carried and take it in the direction in which we ought to go.

The scribes and Pharisees could not deny the miracles. The Lord's power to heal was obvious to everyone. But they refused to believe that it was God's power. Swedenborg tells us that this was the very reason why miracles could be performed then, whereas they could not be performed today. Such miracles today would force men to believe in the Lord even when they did not want to obey Him. The Lord never forces us to believe in Him against our wills. Even among the people of Bible days the miracles were accepted and believed only by those who already believed.

The greater part of our chapter is concerned with efforts of the scribes and Pharisees to discredit the Lord. Their first complaint was that He ate with publicans and sinners. This is introduced by the incident of His calling Levi — Matthew (see Matthew 9:9) - from his place as tax collector to be one of His disciples. Matthew was a publican, one of the Jews despised by the Pharisees because they collected taxes for the Roman rulers. Several times the Lord's enemies tried to trick Him into saying something which they could report as treasonable, but He foiled each attempt by putting His finger on the root of the complaint. In this case He pointed out that it is the duty of the truly strong and great to help the weak and unfortunate. There was no answer to this obvious truth.

The rest of the chapter finds its keynote in verses 21 and 22.

The scribes and Pharisees, as we read in Matthew 23:13-33, were sticklers for the Law but had no interest in the virtues which the Law was intended to develop and express. The Lord came to fulfill the Law and the Prophets, to live out before men the inner quality of divine truth. We are familiar with the fact that every little regulation commanded in the books of Moses has a spiritual meaning which is its timeless meaning. The regulation itself is like the husk in which the nourishing kernel of wheat is preserved. The Lord came to bring the wheat to view and the husks had to be broken in the process. The charge that His disciples did not fast and the frequent charges that He and His disciples "broke" the sabbath showed that to the scribes and Pharisees the husks were the all of religion.

New wine is a new interpretation of divine truth, which requires new forms for its expression. In the sermon on the mount we read several times: "Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time ... But I say unto you ... " (Matthew 5:21-48). The Lord thus contrasted old forms with the new spirit which He had come to give. And He said (Mark 10:5) of one of the regulations of the Law of Moses: "For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept." Yet the Lord did not come to "destroy the law, or the prophets." He came to point out that the Law was not in the letter but in the spirit and that the spirit of the Law was love to the Lord and the neighbor.

This is brought out clearly in His teaching with regard to the sabbath. He said that "the sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath." He and His disciples transgressed the law of the sabbath as the Pharisees had interpreted it, but they never "broke the sabbath." They used the sabbath for worship, for instruction, and for works of healing and charity. This is the purpose for which the sabbath was ordained, a regularly recurring opportunity to rest from the worldly occupations which claim so much of our time and strength and to recognize and develop the higher spiritual faculties which alone make us truly human beings.

