
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AR 876: "And I saw a New Heaven and a New Earth, signified that a New Heaven was formed from Christians by the Lord, which at this day is called the Christian heaven, where they are who had worshipped the Lord and had lived according to His Commandments in the Word, in whom therefore there is charity and faith: in which heaven also are all the infants of Christians. By 'a New Heaven and a New Earth,' is not meant the natural heaven visible to the eyes, nor the natural earth inhabited by men, but the spiritual heaven are meant, and the earth belonging to that heaven, where the angels are ... It is called the Christian heaven, because it is distinct from the ancient heavens, which existed from the men of the church before the Lord's coming. These ancient heavens are above the Christian heaven; for the heavens are like expanses, one above another; it is the same with each particular heaven; for each heaven by itself is distinguished into three heavens, an inmost or third, a middle or second, and a lowest or first, and so it is with this New Heaven."

@AR 879: "And I John saw the holy city New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, signifies the New Church to be established by the Lord at the end of the former church, which will be consociated with the New Heaven in Divine truths as to doctrine and as to life ... it is said 'to come down from God out of heaven,' because it descends from the Lord through the New Christian heaven ... for the church on earth is formed through heaven by the Lord, that they may act as one and be consociated."

@AR 881: "Prepared as a Bride adorned for her Husband, signifies that church conjoined with the Lord through the Word ... By 'prepared' is signified clothed for her betrothal, and the church is no otherwise attired for her betrothal, and afterwards for conjunction or marriage, than by the Word; for this is the only means of conjunction or marriage, because the Word is from the Lord and concerning the Lord, and thus the Lord; for which reason it is also called 'a covenant,' and 'a covenant' signifies spiritual conjunction; the Word also was given for this end. That by 'Husband' is meant the Lord is plain from verses 9 and 10 of this chapter, where Jerusalem is called 'the Bride the Lamb's Wife.'"

