
=== Intermediate

Review the three kings and their meaning. Point out that the David state supplants the Saul state altogether, while the state represented by Solomon grows naturally out of that represented by David — Solomon was David's son. Touch on the fact that it was Solomon and not David who built the temple.

David was a warrior king. Under him all the enemies of Israel were overcome. And he was allowed to conquer Jerusalem and to establish the ark there in a new tabernacle which he set up on Mount Zion. He wanted to build a temple for the ark, but he was forbidden to do so because he was "a man of war." The temple is a picture of heavenly character. We have to fight against temptations, but the state of struggle is not the ideal state and is only a preparation for the building of character. The temple of character is built in us by the Lord as we clear the way for His entrance into our hearts.

When Solomon, the son of David, succeeded his father on the throne of Israel, one of his first acts was to offer sacrifices to the Lord at Gibeon. Here the old tabernacle with its furnishings had finally been set up (see 2 Chronicles 1:1-6). Although the ark was no longer in it, the people still regarded the old tabernacle as their principal place of worship and all the regular ceremonies were maintained there, as they had been at Shiloh in the time of Samuel. In going there Solomon was dedicating himself as best he could to the service of the Lord, and it was there that he had his well—known dream in which the Lord said to him, "Ask what I shall give thee." Solomon made the wise choice of "an understanding heart" as the most desirable of all gifts which the Lord might grant him. The Hebrew word here translated "understanding" actually means "hearing." The ear and hearing correspond to obedience.

An understanding heart — or an obedient heart — is the symbol of true wisdom, the ability to distinguish between right and wrong, which comes from a genuine desire to do right in the Lord's sight. Swedenborg tells us many times that we can be enlightened by the Lord only when we study the Word from a desire to learn what is true and do it. Solomon's wisdom became famous and kings and queens, like the queen of Sheba, sought his counsel.

Solomon did build the temple. His name means "peaceful." We have peace only when we love to do right, and the Lord builds a heavenly character in us in proportion as we come into this love. Read 1 Kings 6:7. The temple is the dwelling place of the Lord in our hearts. This is built silently by the Lord from the materials which we have prepared. Every time we make ourselves remember one of the Lord's commandments and obey it, we are fashioning a "stone" or a "timber" which the Lord can use in our temple. The temple was seven years in building. We remember the six days of creation and then the sabbath of rest. The whole of our life is needed to complete our temple.

Saul pictures our attempts to do right in our own strength and from our own ideas of what must be right. The kingdom of heaven can never be established in us on this basis. David pictures our attempts to do right according to the truth we find in the Word, trusting in the Lord for guidance and strength. In this way we can recognize and conquer our inner evils and establish the Lord's rule in our minds as well as in our outward lives. But Solomon pictures the final state of regeneration when we do the Lord's will from the love of doing it. Then there is peace. All the riches and beautiful possessions of Solomon, which are described in several chapters of 1 Kings, represent the beautiful things which we have in our souls when Solomon is on the throne.

The wisdom which comes of an understanding heart is illustrated in the story of Solomon's dealing with the two mothers in the last part of our chapter. Even in the letter we can see that Solomon was given to understand the feeling that would be in the heart of the true mother, who would sacrifice her own claim to the child rather than have it destroyed. But there is a deeper meaning in the story. A son always pictures truth. The pretended mother pictures those who do not really care for the truth, but want to seem to possess it. The true mother represents those who really love the truth and are willing to acknowledge that it is not their own in order to keep it alive. An understanding heart in its inner meaning is the acknowledgment that all truth and goodness are the Lord's and not our own.

