
=== Notes for Parents

When anyone says that someone is "a regular Solomon," we know that he means that the person is unusually wise. Our story today tells us how Solomon came to be so wise. He was a son of David, but not one of his older sons. In fact he was a young man - perhaps not more than twenty - when he came to the throne, and in our chapter he himself says to the Lord, "I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in." But we are also told that "Solomon loved the Lord." And when the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, "Ask what I shall give thee," Solomon did not ask for riches or power or long life, but for an understanding heart, that he might "discern between good and bad" and judge his people wisely. In other words, Solomon's wisdom was grounded in humility, love to the Lord, and the desire to do right in the Lord's sight. We read in Psalm 111:10, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments." No one can be wise who imagines that he knows enough to do right without constantly looking to the Lord for guidance and strength.

And trusting in the Lord and obeying His commandments is the only road to peace. The name Solomon [Shalom] means "peaceful." All our conflicts and distresses come from trust in self or in others instead of in the Lord. The forty years of Solomon's reign were years of peace. The fame of his wisdom spread, and kings and queens came to him for instruction and advice. In accordance with the Lord's promise he also acquired great riches. Chapter 10 especially tells of the glory of his kingdom.

But the crowning work of Solomon's reign was the building of the temple at Jerusalem. David had wanted to build it, but had been told that he must not because he was "a man of war." The temple of the Lord is a picture of a character built according to the Lord's commandments. It is the crowning work of every good life. It is really the work of the Lord in us as we put away our selfish thoughts and desires and make way in our souls for His unselfish love to flow in. Battles with temptation must first be fought — this is pictured by the reign of David — but as the battles are won, peace and happiness follow.

Why did not the glory of Solomon's kingdom continue? The answer to this question forms the background for a later lesson.

