
=== Adult

The meaning of Babylon and of Nebuchadnezzar and the image in their application to modern religious thought is an important lesson for this class. Attention should be called to 2 Kings 20:12-17, in which is described the insidious beginning of the captivity to Babylon. Psalm 1:1-2 may also be recalled in connection with the complete faithfulness of the three young men in the story.

---
We come now to the last chapters of the long history which we have been following through the Old Testament. Most of the nation - Israel — has been conquered and carried away into the eastern countries by Assyria, never to return. The surviving division - Judah — has been overcome by Babylon, and although we know that a part of this group is destined to return and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple, it will be merely a return by permission of a foreign master.

In the decline of Judah we see the gradual degeneration of the will to serve the Lord, the desire to "be good," which comes about through admitting other motives into our hearts — the worship of idols. Although worldly reasoning cannot actually destroy this good desire — Assyria (symbolizing worldly reasoning) was not permitted to conquer Judah — still the degeneration of the good will is much more rapid after the understanding is taken captive by worldly reasoning. Spiritual truth and the ability to reason from spiritual grounds are an essential bulwark of the good heart. Without them we do not recognize evil for what it is, as Asa invited the aid of Syria and paid for it with the treasures of the temple, and as Hezekiah later treated the envoys of Babylon as friends and showed them all his treasures. Often self-love enters into our hearts without our recognizing it. This is particularly true in our worship. Most of us, when we join the church, do so because we feel the desire to serve the Lord; but how easy it is, once we become used to our new position, to think of ourselves as better than those who have not taken the same step, to take our own goodness as a matter of course, making no effort to learn more of the teachings of the church than we already know, going through the forms of worship mechanically, and thinking of our church membership not as an opportunity to serve but as a fact which puts the church organization under a particular obligation to serve us! If we do not recognize and reject this evil in ourselves, we are likely to come into a state where we try to run everything in the church and care more about having our own way than we do about the service of the Lord or the welfare of the church. Whenever this happens, "Judah" has been carried away captive to "Babylon." In @AE 1010[2] we read:

"The love of honor, of rule, and of supereminence is the last state of the church ... for that love more than all other loves extinguishes the light of heaven and induces the darkness of hell."

Daniel was a prophet of the captivity. He belonged to the royal family of Judah and was carried away into Babylon among the earliest of the captives. He was one of several young men — among them the three of our chapter for today — chosen for their mental ability to be brought up in the court of Nebuchadnezzar and trained in all the learning of the Chaldeans. He was noted for his complete faithfulness to the worship of Jehovah, and because of it he was gifted by the Lord with great wisdom and with the power to interpret dreams. He remained in royal favor under Nebuchadnezzar, Belshazzar, Darius, and Cyrus, and is thought to have lived to be about ninety years old. The book of Daniel was written partly in Hebrew and partly in Chaldee or Aramaic, a closely allied language, the section from chapter 2, verse 4 through chapter 7 being in Aramaic. There is more narrative in the book of Daniel than in most of the Prophets, the stories of Nebuchadnezzar's image, of the fiery furnace, of the lions' den, and of Belshazzar's feast being incorporated in many books of Bible stories for children. Yet it also contains visions as strange as those in Ezekiel and Revelation, and visions of the future of the church under the form of the fate of Israel and the nations. The book was not included by the ancient Hebrews among the Prophets, but the Lord Himself restored it to its proper place by speaking of "Daniel the prophet" (Matthew 24:15, Mark 13:14).

The personal history of Daniel and his companions, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, illustrates a very important lesson — the reward of faithfulness and obedience to the Lord in the face of apparently overwhelming difficulties. First they refused to defile themselves with the king's rich food. The food and wine of the king of Babylon picture the evils and falsities which nourish our self-esteem, such ideas as "If you don't put yourself forward, no one else will," and "God helps those who help themselves," in its commonly accepted meaning. The four young men instead ate only "pulse" and drank only water, which picture the simple principles derived from goodness of heart and the truths of the Word. As a result, instead of suffering they became "fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat." It is a fact that those who have the courage to live according to the teachings of the Lord, putting the Lord and the neighbor before self steadily in their daily life attain a standing and reputation in their communities which no self-seeking person can possibly attain. If we today faithfully obey the Lord's teachings and have the courage to put them to the test, we shall find that His protection and enlightenment are with us throughout our lives.

As Babylon represents the "love of dominion from the love of self," its king represents the principle of self-intelligence which perverts all truth to the service of self. Swedenborg says that Nebuchadnezzar represents "the profanation of truth and its consequent destruction." This is typified in his setting up the golden image to be worshiped. When we begin to exalt human intelligence above revelation, we set up our own judgment as a golden god to be worshiped, and all truth must be bent to agree with the theories which our judgment has adopted.

There is something very striking in the repetitions in our chapter for today. The musical instruments, the various orders of rank of the kingdom, the burning fiery furnace, and even the repetition of the three Chaldean names, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, have a sort of hypnotic influence which makes one think of the reiteration of some current humanistic slogans. The words of the three young men in verses 16 to 18 stand out in sharp contrast. They say in effect: "What is all this mummery to us? We serve the Lord." So with us, if we accept the Word as divine revelation and recognize its simple commands as binding, its great plain affirmations cut through the maze of theory and rationalizing and elaborate terminology which some modern Bible scholars and theologians have woven to the enslavement of the unthinking. Nebuchadnezzar says to us today: "I have set up a god for you, the human intelligence glossed over with the gold of 'service to humanity.' Whenever you feel the impulse to worship — the sound of the musical instruments — recognize human achievement as your god. This is the only thing really praiseworthy. It shows you how to be comfortable, how to get what you want. If you will not march with the crowd, you will have no satisfaction for your natural desires. They will burn you up." And to this Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answer: "There is none good but one, that is, God."

And when they were cast into the furnace, we read: "Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonished, and said unto his counsellors, Did we not cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto the king, True, O king. He answered and said, Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the Son of God." Temptations not only have no power to harm the faithful, but the Lord is always close to us in times of temptation. In His life on earth He met and overcame all possible temptations, and it is His power which overcomes in and for us.

