
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The tendency to "follow the crowd" is particularly strong at this age; so the lesson is an important one. A discussion of the common temptations of school life and how they can be met will be helpful. Call attention to the fact that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego did not make a parade of their goodness. They merely took it for granted that they would do what they knew to be right regardless of the consequences. This habit was built up in them from the beginning of their captivity, and while it set them apart from their companions, in the end it made them great men.

---
Assyria was not permitted to conquer Judah. Assyria as an enemy represents false reasoning, and while false reasoning can wholly take possession of the understanding, it cannot of itself destroy good motives in the heart. But there is an enemy which can corrupt the heart. One of the later kings of Judah, Hezekiah, although he was one of the most thoroughgoing reformers of them all, admitted to his confidence the envoys of the king of Babylon who came pretending to be his friends, and showed them all his treasures. After that it was not long before Babylon conquered Judah and gradually carried away its treasures and its leaders, finally destroying Jerusalem and the temple itself. Babylon pictures "the love of dominion from the love of self" — in simple terms, the love of getting our own way — and this is the enemy which can creep into our hearts and gradually rob us of all our good affections.

Daniel, the last of the Major Prophets, was one of the young men of the royal household carried away to Babylon with the first group, before the great captivity. These young men were selected to be trained in Babylon as advisers to the king, and they were well treated. Doubtless most of them fell readily into the ways and worship of Babylon. But four of them, Daniel, Hannaniah, Mishael, and Azariah — to whom were given the Chaldean names of Belteshazzar, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego — determined to remain faithful to Jehovah and to continue the customs in which they had been brought up in Judah. They first refused to eat the king's rich food. We can easily see that this pictures refusing to take into our hearts and minds desires and thoughts which support the habit of living for the pleasures and rewards of the world. Whenever we find ourselves trying to get our own way without thinking whether it is really right and just and then hunting for "good" reasons why we should have our own way, we are eating the food and drinking the wine of the king of Babylon.

This temptation to put ourselves first is further defined in the story of our chapter for today, which concerns worship. Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, pictures the ruling principle of self-love, which is self-intelligence, the idea that "what I think is so must be so." This idea tries to bend all the truths of the Word and the services of the church to the glorification of self. So Nebuchadnezzar set up a golden image and commanded the people to worship it. The punishment for disobedience was that one would be cast into a "burning fiery furnace." Worldly people imagine that the good life is a hard and painful one, full of suffering from the burning of unsatisfied desires. But Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego refused to worship the image. They felt sure that the Lord would not let them be tormented, but they said that even if they should suffer in the furnace, they would still be faithful. And their faith was justified. The Lord appeared in the furnace with them and they were unhurt. The Lord, when He was in the world, underwent all the temptations which men can ever feel, and He is closely present with us in temptation to give us power to overcome. Not only were the three young men unharmed by the fire, but Nebuchadnezzar was convinced of the power of their God and issued an edict that no one in his kingdom should ever speak a word against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

Daniel later in a similar incident was saved by the Lord from lions. All four young men were raised to positions of power in Babylon. Daniel, because the Lord gave to Him, as He had to Joseph, the ability to interpret dreams, was elevated to a position next to the king. The other three were given charge over provinces. And Nebuchadnezzar, through the series of experiences he had with these four young men, was finally brought to acknowledge Jehovah as the most high God. Nebuchadnezzar's son, Belshazzar, also had a demonstration of Daniel's power, and his successor Darius the Mede, although he overthrew Belshazzar, retained Daniel as ruler under him of the whole land. And it is recorded that Daniel continued to prosper in the reign of Cyrus the Persian, the ruler who permitted the people of Judah to return to their own land. So the prophet Daniel spans the whole period of the captivity of Judah.

