
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class the historical background should be carefully covered, and they should be told something of Daniel's later history. They know that people who are upright and firm come to be respected, and they need to be shown that this respect is not something that can be won in a moment or sometime after you grow up, but must be built up by a lifetime habit of acting from principle instead of from impulse.

---
Judah had several good kings but also many bad ones. Israel, you remember, had only bad kings. Israel became worse and worse, and the Lord could not save it because its people would not obey Him. Finally, the armies of Assyria conquered Israel and carried all its people away to the east, sending in foreigners to take their place. The Samaritans of the Lord's time were descendants of these strangers. The ten tribes who composed the kingdom of Israel never came back to the Holy Land. They are sometimes called "the lost tribes," and there have been many theories as to just what became of their descendants.

The king of Assyria also tried to capture Jerusalem and Judah, but the king on the throne of Judah at that time was one of its best kings, Hezekiah, and so the Lord saved Judah. Later, however, the kings of Judah forsook the Lord again, and the armies of Babylon were allowed to conquer Judah and destroy Jerusalem and carry off all the important people to Babylon. But it was promised that after seventy years they should be allowed to return.

When the king of Babylon won his first victory in Judah, he carried off a selected group of people (read 2 Kings 24:11-16) among whom were four young men (read Daniel 1:1-7) of the royal household who were of special ability.

What were their Hebrew names?

What were they called in Babylon?

Daniel's Chaldean name never became familiar, because he was chosen by the Lord to be one of the Prophets, and in the Word he is always called Daniel, one of the books of the Word bearing his name. The other three are best known by their Chaldean names. All four, although they were specially educated to serve the king of Babylon, remained faithful to the Lord. They proved this first by refusing to eat the king's rich food while they were being trained. They asked instead to be given only "pulse" to eat and water to drink. Pulse is an old word for green vegetables and perhaps cereals. They lived on this all the time they were being educated, and it is reported that they thrived on it better than all the other young men did on the king's food.

The Lord gave Daniel power to interpret dreams — the same power He had given Joseph so long before — and Daniel was able to interpret a strange dream for king Nebuchadnezzar which none of his own wise men could interpret. So Nebuchadnezzar made Daniel ruler over the whole province of Babylon and chief of the governors, and at Daniel's request he gave high positions also to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

But Nebuchadnezzar was a very proud man, who enjoyed making other people do his bidding. In our chapter for today we see the trouble to which this led.

What did Nebuchadnezzar set up?

What command did he give?

What was to be the punishment of anyone who disobeyed?

What did Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego do?

What did Nebuchadnezzar command in his rage?

What happened to his own officers as a result?

Afterward, what did Nebuchadnezzar see in the furnace?

You see, the Lord was with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego to save them just as they had said He would be. Whenever we stand up for the right and do right, the Lord is with us and takes care of us. And not only this, but we also influence others to recognize and respect the Lord. This was shown in the effect on Nebuchadnezzar of the steadfastness of the three young men.

What new command did Nebuchadnezzar give?

What did he do for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego?

