
=== Primary

This is an easy story to tell to children, who can be fired with admiration for the faithful three and with wonder at their deliverance. It is a good thing for the Primary children to learn the name of Daniel and to try to learn the names of his three friends so that the names will at least be familiar to them. They will be interested in the incident of their refusing the king's rich food (Daniel 1). The important lesson is the necessity of standing up for what you know to be right no matter how strongly you may be tempted.

When you are playing with other children and they all begin to do something you know you have been told not to do, it is very hard, isn't it? You don't like to be different from all the rest. But if you are brave enough to do what is right no matter what the others are doing, things go better for you afterward.

Long ago there were four young men in the king's family in Judah who were carried far away to Babylon when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, took possession of Judah. They were well treated, for king Nebuchadnezzar wanted them as very special helpers for himself. But the people of Babylon did not worship the true God whom the four young men had been taught to worship, and did many things which they knew to be wrong. They made up their minds they would not do these things.

One of these young men was Daniel, who afterward became a prophet of the Lord and wrote one of the books in our Bible. In his book he tells about some of the things which happened to them. At the very start they refused to eat some of the food the king gave them because it was food which their religious laws forbade them to eat. They asked the man in charge to give them only vegetables to eat and water to drink. He was afraid they would not be as healthy as the others and that the king would blame him, but he agreed to try it. Because they were doing right, the Lord saw to it that their food agreed with them, and they became stronger and handsomer than all the others.

Then king Nebuchadnezzar set up a great golden image and told everyone to worship it.

What did Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego tell the king?

What did the king have his servants do with them?

Were they burned?

Whom did Nebuchadnezzar see in the fiery furnace with them?

What happened to the men who cast them into the furnace?

Then the king commanded that no one should ever speak a word against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

And he promoted all three of them.

You see when we mean to be good and try to do right, the Lord is always very close to us to help us resist temptation. He keeps us safe, just as He kept Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego safe in the midst of the fiery furnace. And when we have the courage to do right, we help other people to do right, too.

