
=== Senior

Something should be done in this class with the subject of the Lord's temptations and victories and the reality of His presence with us in temptation. Young people may not talk much about the Lord, but if He is presented to them in an inspiring way in home and Sunday school, they do not forget Him in their thinking. He does in a very real sense walk with them by the way and save them from many dangers.

---
The prophet Daniel is one of the most striking figures in the Word. His fidelity and courage in the face of the temptations of wealth and power have always stood as an example, and — unlike many of the Bible characters — he seems to have no weaknesses to explain away. The promising young Hebrew, taken captive in his early youth by the king of Babylon with a view to making his talents useful to the king, is a clear symbol of our spiritual nature so early subjected to the selfish and worldly demands of our natural heredity.

Daniel and his three companions refused to eat the rich food or drink the wine of the king of Babylon. It is possible for us, even as very young people, to reject selfish feelings and thoughts and to substitute for them humility before the Lord and study of the truths of the Word. And the result is always immediate. We gain from day to day in strength and beauty of character, as Daniel and his companions "appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the King's meat." Chapter 1 of Daniel tells this story. And just as Daniel and his three companions gained the king's favor, so we also gain unexpected recognition and respect from the selfish "leaders" around us.

But this external prosperity and admiration brings with it a new temptation to rely on self and forget God. The changing of the names of the four young men by Nebuchadnezzar suggests this. In each case the original Hebrew name contains the syllable el or ah which are syllables taken from the name of the Lord — Elohim or Jehovah. The new names not only leave out these syllables but contain either the name of an idol or the suggestion of some quality which exalts self. Babylon throughout the Scriptures is the symbol of the "love of dominion from the love of self." Reduced to the simplest language this means the desire to have our own way in everything. The king who rules this selfish kingdom is the principle of self-intelligence: "I know; if you don't agree with me, you must be a fool." The golden image which Nebuchadnezzar set up is a symbol of self gilded over and made into a god to be worshiped. Nebuchadnezzar says in effect: "If you don't serve yourself first, your natural desires will burn you up." The selfish person sees no possible happiness in self-control. And when we yield to this temptation to set up self as an idol, the very fate prophesied for the God—fearing overtakes us instead: our natural passions increase and do burn us up, as the sevenfold heat of the furnace destroyed the men who threw Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego into the fire.

But those three were not harmed, "nor was a hair of their head singed, neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed on them." They relied on the Lord, and the Lord was with them in the furnace of temptation: so the fire could not hurt or change them. The Lord took on our finite human nature for the very purpose of meeting and overcoming all the temptations which men can ever possibly experience. If we trust in Him and obey Him, He walks with us wherever we go and gives us power to resist temptation — to go through "fire" unharmed.

When they were brought before the king, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego seemed to stand alone. All the might of the kingdom was against them. So we may sometimes seem to be alone and helpless in the midst of our worldly environment. But we have only to stand firm. It is worldliness which is really powerless, powerless to bring happiness or peace to anyone, and powerless to disturb the good person. Throughout the history of the world it has been by means of the few people who stood firmly for the right that the course of events has eventually been decided. It helps us sometimes if we realize that to "follow the crowd" is weakness and not courage. The house built on the rock is the one which stands.

