
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Discuss the different types of affection for truth and the need of the proper affection if the life is to bear spiritual fruit. The mere "search for truth" is not necessarily good. Another fruitful topic for discussion is the duty to bring up our children from the beginning with a spiritual idea of marriage. This is the most important thing parents can do in directing their children's choice. Note that in the story it was not the servant or the parents who chose Isaac's mate, but the Lord, and everyone concerned recognized the Lord's part in the matter.

---
The story of the birth of Isaac pictures the beginning of the development of the higher rational faculty in us, the faculty which looks deeper for its basis than mere external appearances of truth, and depends instead upon the truth revealed by the Lord in His Word. When Isaac was born, Abraham was a hundred years old, Sarah over ninety, and Ishmael fourteen. We recall that Ishmael, because he mocked at the baby Isaac, was sent away with his mother into the wilderness, where he married an Egyptian wife and became the father of a numerous people. Then follows the story of Abraham's temptation to offer Isaac as a burnt sacrifice to the Lord, and of how at the last moment the Lord checked the sacrifice and provided a ram in place of Isaac. We will doubtless remember that here again we have a case of the language of appearance. The Lord of course did not command Abraham to sacrifice Isaac, but He does command each of us to be willing to do His will at whatever apparent sacrifices of our own desires or possessions. Chapter 23 tells of the death of Sarah at the age of a hundred and twenty-seven, and of her burial in a cave in a field in Machpelah, which Abraham bought for the purpose from Ephron the Hittite. This, too, has its inner meaning, but the literal fact is also important to remember because the cave of Machpelah is mentioned several times later in the Bible story, and because it should be noted that Sarah died before Isaac's marriage.

As little children we live, as it were, on the celestial plane, being ruled by our affections and surrounded as to our souls by influences from the celestial heavens. This is the Abraham stage. But as we develop in body and mind, this state gradually passes and a new one succeeds. We come to be ruled by our rational faculty, to look to it as the head of our house, so to speak. This is the Isaac stage. It is an entirely new state, with new interests and new affections. When it is fully developed, it can no longer cling to the former childlike states of affection and thought. We say that a little child can be led by love, but an older child must be reasoned with. Both the little child and the older child when in their best states love the truth, but they love it in a different way. Each has a type of affection for truth which is appropriate to his state. So when Isaac is developed to maturity, Sarah dies and a wife must be found for him to take the place his mother has held in his life. The way in which this wife is sought and found pictures in every detail the way in which true rationality is established in the life of every one of us who develops as he should under the Lord's guidance.

Abraham in the story pictures the Lord at work in our hearts. His eldest servant, who was over all his household, stands for the natural mind, which governs our daily life — if it is a true servant — in the interests of the Lord and according to His will. This servant is told to seek a wife for Isaac, but not to seek her among the degenerate inhabitants of Canaan. We recall the beginning of the story of Noah in Genesis 6, where it is said that the sons of God married the daughters of men, and a race of giants ensued who eventually destroyed each other. That pictured the uniting of truths from the Lord with selfish natural affections, using what we know of the Lord to excuse and support our selfish desires. Now we are again warned against falling into the same evil. Our new rational mind must not be "married" to selfish and worldly desires — we must not use our new faculty to excuse our faults and to support us in selfish living and thinking. Instead, it must have a wife from its own people, an affection for learning about the Lord and about how to serve Him.

This can be illustrated by the right and the wrong way to study the Bible. If, when we read the Bible, we are constantly looking for statements which we like because they make us feel that we are good — and perhaps that people who disagree with us are wrong and that the Lord will forgive us whatever we do, and pass over all the condemnations and commands which point out our evils, we are "marrying" our rational understanding of the Word to our selfish affections — the "daughters of the Canaanites." But when we read the Bible to find out where we are wrong in the Lord's sight and to find help to correct our faults, then we are "seeking a wife for Isaac among Abraham's kindred." It is our natural mind, the same part of us which gathers knowledge of everyday affairs and keeps it in order, which goes out to find this true wife. It makes use of all that we have learned from childhood about the Lord and His will — the ten camels (@AC 3048) - and it goes back to our first understanding of doctrine which is represented by Haran. There the servant found Rebekah by the well of water, and he recognized her as his master's bride because she willingly drew water not only for him but also for his camels. The well, of course, is the letter of the Word, and the water is truth from the Word. Only a genuine affection for divine truth will draw from the Word refreshment for the mind and for all the knowledges of the Lord which are laid up in it. Selfish affections would gladly let the knowledge of the Lord in the mind die. We may bring this lesson home to ourselves in this way: When we attend church and Sunday school, do we love to hear the Bible explained and try to apply its lessons to our own character and its problems? Or, when the minister begins to touch upon some wrong thought or feeling which we recognize as our own, do we close our ears and try not to listen, or try to think of someone else to whom the lesson applies?

But there is still another part of the story. When Rebekah was found, she had to be brought to Isaac. Isaac was on no account to go back to Haran. Haran was not in the Holy Land at all; it was merely one stage of the journey to the Holy Land, the time when one begins dimly to see that he must obey the Lord and try to get to heaven. After we have developed our rational faculty, the Lord does not want us to go back to this state. Some people interpret the Lord's statement that we must become as little children (Matthew 18:3) to mean that we should go back to the blind faith of a little child and merely obey the Lord's teaching without expecting to understand it. This is not what the Lord means. He gives us our brains to use in matters of religion above everything else. He wants us to study and understand His teaching, to become His "friends" (John 15:15). What we are to seek to retain — or to regain — from our childhood is not our ignorance but our humility, gentleness, and trust: our "innocence." We are, as Swedenborg says, to cultivate the "innocence of wisdom" in place of the "innocence of ignorance." So Rebekah must be brought to Isaac. Our affection for the Lord's truth must be raised to the rational plane of our lives and united to our rational faculty. Then Isaac is "comforted after his mother's death." When we have grown out of the state of simple, blind acceptance of divine truth, we are sometimes sad and bewildered. We can no longer accept some things which we have heretofore taken for granted, because our unaided reason cannot explain them, and yet we miss our belief in them and seem lost without it. This story teaches us that nothing will really satisfy us until we can restore our belief by seeing its rational basis. A great many people who as little children have believed in the Lord and the Bible lose their faith when their reason develops because they have not found the rational explanation of the Word which the New Church has to give. Many of them long for their early states of belief and trust and never feel "at home" again. They move about from one church to another, looking for a doctrine which they can accept. The story of the marriage of Isaac and Rebekah has a challenge for the New Church.

