
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a difficult lesson for the Younger Teens, but it is good to introduce them to the idea not only of what true marriage is but of the necessity of the union of goodness and truth in order to produce anything living and permanent. The teacher should study the lesson carefully and try to be prepared with illustrative examples which will come within the experience of his particular class.

---
Sons represent truths and daughters affections. But in a marriage the husband represents a certain good and the wife represents the affection for the kind of truth which goes with that good. You will understand this better when you are older, but perhaps an example will help now. Suppose you make up your mind to grow up to be good. You will first have to learn how — that means to learn truths. But suppose you care only to learn the kind of truths which will make you appear good to other people and do not care to learn from the Lord what is good in His sight. Then your goodness will be only external or natural goodness. It will not be true spiritual goodness at all. Abraham, you remember, obeyed the Lord. His true wife Sarah pictures affection for truth from the Lord, while the Egyptian servant Hagar pictures affection for external or natural truth. We all begin to do right from this natural affection. That is, we like to be praised and to avoid punishment. So our first reasoning is based on the thought of what will profit us most. This is Ishmael. But when we are older, we begin to see that this is not enough; we see that we ought to please the Lord, whatever people may think of us. Then our reasoning begins to be based on truth from the Lord. This is Isaac, the son who was finally born to Sarah. And after he was born, Hagar and Ishmael were sent away and Isaac was the one who grew up at home and later took his father's place as head of the family.

Let us think back to the beginning of Abraham's story and see if we remember it — where he came from, why he left his birthplace, who left with him, where they first stopped, and who stayed there. Now again we hear of Haran, the city of Nahor. When it was time for Isaac to marry, Abraham did not want him to take a wife from among the Canaanites. The Canaanites were idolaters. Abraham wanted his son to have a wife who would worship Jehovah as he did. He felt sure that among his brother Nahor's family a good wife for Isaac could be found. You see that the new kind of affection which belonged with the spiritual reasoning which Isaac represents had to spring from the same childlike obedience to the Lord in which Abraham had always been.

Abraham sent his servant to Haran to find a wife for Isaac. This was not a servant in the sense in which we use the word. He was rather a steward, the man who had charge of all Abraham's household and possessions. Abraham's wealth is shown by the fact that the servant traveled with ten camels and took very valuable presents for the bride and her family. All our external abilities and knowledges are useful when they are made to serve our spiritual development. Abraham's servant represents the kind of understanding of external things which performs this use, and camels represent external knowledges. We have to "use our heads" in doing good as in everything else. Perhaps you remember that John the Baptist, who came to call people to repentance, wore raiment of camel's hair.

Abraham's servant did not, however, depend entirely on his own judgment. When he stopped at the well outside of Haran, he asked a sign of the Lord. Rebekah came to the well in fulfillment of the sign. She was the granddaughter of Abraham's brother Nahor. Remember that her brother was named Laban, for we shall hear more of him later. Rebekah and her family had the same feeling toward the Lord that Abraham had. They were sure that it was the Lord who had chosen Rebekah for Isaac, and so were willing that she should go.

This is a beautiful story of the making of a happy marriage. When people are to live together all their lives, it is very important that they should be suited to each other, not merely in external ways, but also in the things of the heart and mind; for if they are not, they will be unhappy and cannot make the right kind of home. We should pray the Lord to help us choose wisely in this most important choice of our whole lives. We should also try to find someone who has the same standards of right and wrong that we have. This means that it is very important that husband and wife have the same religious belief.

You remember that water corresponds to truth. In the story, the well from which the water was drawn represents the letter of the Word. Rebekah's willingness to draw water from the well not only for Abraham's servant but for his camels also pictures willingness to go to the Word for truth to guide our external conduct as well as our religious thought. It was because Abraham and Isaac trusted the Lord that they sent the servant to Haran for Isaac's wife; it was because Rebekah's parents and her brother trusted the Lord that they were willing to let her go; and it was because Rebekah trusted the Lord that she was willing to leave her home and take the long journey to a strange land to marry a man she had never seen. Read the last verse of the chapter. It is a beautiful picture of the beginning of a new home upon the foundation of the memory of a happy childhood home.

