
=== Junior

In connection with this lesson fix in the children's minds the origin of the "city of Nahor" or Haran. Show it to them on a map and trace Abraham's original journey, pointing out Ur, Haran, Shechem, and Bethel where he first built altars, and Hebron where he settled. Have them look up the Bible references in their notes. A chart of the family of Abraham will be included with the lesson on Jacob's wives and sons.

The Lord had wrought a miracle for Sarah and had given her a son when she was over ninety years old. This son was Isaac, whose name means "laughter." He was so named because of Sarah's great joy when he was born. Read Genesis 21:6. Sarah lived to be a hundred and twenty-seven. Then she died, and Abraham bought as a burying place for her the cave of Machpelah, which became the family burying place and is mentioned several times later in the Bible.

Isaac now needed a wife. Most of the other people in the land at that time were Canaanites and worshiped idols. Abraham wanted his son to have a wife who worshiped Jehovah as he did because he knew that religion was the most important thing in a person's life and that a difference of religion would be likely to lead to differences of opinion and unhappiness and also might cause Isaac to forsake the Lord. So he sent his servant back to his own relatives to find a wife for Isaac.

What did Abraham's servant take with him? 

Where was he to go?

Who was Nahor?

The "city of Nahor" was named Haran after another brother of Abraham. Read Genesis 11:27-32. When Abraham came from Ur of Chaldea to the Holy Land, his father and his brother Nahor and his family, as well as Lot, Haran's son, had started with him, but Nahor had stopped and settled at Haran before they reached the Holy Land.

Where did Abraham's servant stop when he came near Haran? 

How did he try to make sure he would pick out the right maiden? 

Did the Lord answer his prayer?

Who came out to draw water?

In those days people did not have running water in their houses. Water was very scarce, and often there was just one well for a whole city. Every family had to send someone to the well to draw water and carry it home, and water for the animals had to be drawn up from the well, too, and poured into troughs so that they could drink. The animals were led out to drink from the troughs. Read Genesis 29:2-3.

What did Rebekah do?

How did the servant know she was the right maiden? 

Who was Rebekah's grandfather? Who was her brother?

We want to remember the name Laban because we shall learn more about him in the future.

How was Abraham's servant received by his master's relatives? 

Why were they willing to let Rebekah go with him?

You see they, too, believed in the Lord and wanted to be led by Him.

What presents did the servant give Rebekah? 

Was Rebekah willing to go with him?

Who went with her from her home?

If you would like to know the name of Rebekah's nurse, read Genesis 16:13-14. Beer is the Hebrew word for well. Remember this when you see other names in the Bible which begin with these four letters.

What did Isaac and Rebekah take for their home?

