
=== Senior

Stress the fact that as we grow up our states change and that each new state needs new truth from the Lord to direct it. We never become wise in and from ourselves. The nature of marriage as a representative of the union of divine love and wisdom in the Lord should be mentioned, and the need of looking to the Lord for guidance in choosing a mate as well as the need for being sure that the desire of both is to serve the Lord in and through their marriage.

---
Isaac — Sarah's son, who was to inherit all of Abraham's possessions and become the head of the family when his father died - represents a kind of reasoning power based on belief in the truth revealed by the Lord in the Word instead of on worldly ideas of what is true. Sarah and Abraham were both very old when Isaac was born. This pictures the fact that by the time our "spiritual rational" begins to develop, our childhood states of simple trust and obedience are passing away. Our lesson for today — Isaac's marriage — takes place after Sarah's death.

When Abraham was first called by the Lord to leave Ur of Chaldea and go to the land of Canaan, he did not start alone. In addition to Sarah, his brother Nahor and his family went with him, as well as their father Terah and Lot, the son of another brother, Haran, who had died. Lot, you remember, went all the way to Canaan with Abraham, but Nahor and his family went only part way. They settled in Mesopotamia — which means "between the rivers" (the Tigris and the Euphrates) - and the place where they settled was named Haran for Lot's father. It is also called in the Bible the "city of Nahor." There Terah died.

After Sarah's death Abraham determined to find a wife for his son Isaac in the family of his brother Nahor. In our chapter for today he sends his servant — really his steward — on the long journey to Haran. Abraham's home, you remember, was in Hebron, in the southern part of the Holy Land. The ancient Jews were always forbidden to take wives from the people of any land in which they were. But we know that this command has a deeper meaning. A true marriage represents the union of good and truth — the man, before marriage, representing the understanding, and the woman, the affections. When a good understanding is united to evil desires, great wrongs result. We sometimes read in the newspapers of a "mastermind" in a gang of criminals. Isaac, the spiritual rational, must be united to the affection for doing right in the Lord's sight - not to any merely worldly ambition. A person can be truly rational only when he has both true thoughts and good desires. The family of Nahor represents a state of simple goodness, such as many Gentiles have.

Wells play an important part in the story of Isaac. Water, as we know, represents truth. The well from which this water of truth is drawn is the letter of the Word. We remember the story of the Lord at the well in Samaria and the living water He promised. Rebekah's willingness to draw water for the man and his camels pictures the fact that a true spiritual affection wishes to be guided by the Word in all the affairs of life, even worldly affairs, for the camels represent enjoyment of knowing about the natural world. Abraham, Isaac, Abraham's servant, Rebekah, and all her family were governed by trust in the Lord and willingness to obey Him.

This is a beautiful story of how a happy marriage should be formed — not that parents should choose their children's mates, but that the Lord's guidance should be sought and followed. In the first place, people should have the same religious beliefs in order to live happily together, for these are the deepest things in their lives and determine their standards of right and wrong. And both partners in the marriage should wish above all things to do the Lord's will. Then they will agree in their aims for their own lives and for their children, and their home will be founded on unselfish love of the Lord and the neighbor, which is the source of all happiness in this world as well as in the spiritual world.

