
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are plenty of discussion topics here: the change in Egypt from the time of Joseph to the captivity, the ten plagues themselves, the power of the magicians, Pharaoh's stubbornness. The quotations at the end of the lesson may also be used.

---
For anyone without a knowledge of correspondence, the chapters of Exodus which recount the story of the plagues present unanswerable questions. In the letter the Lord instructs Moses to lie to Pharaoh by telling him that the Hebrews merely want to go three days' journey into the wilderness to sacrifice to their God. In the letter it is said that the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart. The murrain, or plague, is said to have killed all the cattle of Egypt, but immediately afterward those Egyptians who fear the Lord are told to take their cattle into their houses to protect them from the hail. A question is raised, too, by the fact that the magicians of Egypt were able to perform some of the miracles which Moses performed.

But a knowledge of the essential nature of the letter of the Word, as revealed by the Lord in His Second Coming, not only answers all these questions but makes the whole story of the plagues a wonderful study in the specific evils inherent in a materialistic philosophy of life and their destructive effects.

In the first place we recognize that the letter of the Word took its form from the impact of divine truth upon the minds of those through whom it was written. Thus, the deception practiced by Moses represents the measure of his ability to comprehend and fulfill his mission. His own fearfulness intervened to twist the message, just as later his own pride prompted him to take credit for bringing water out of the rock and so condemned him to die without entering the Holy Land. The Lord permitted these appearances in the literal account for our instruction. In the same way, Pharaoh's stubborn resistance to enlightenment is permitted to appear as an act of God, because there are people who can be restrained only by fear of God and of punishment by Him. Pharaoh's repeated changes of mind were foreseen by the Lord indeed, but they were the result of Pharaoh's free choice.

We recall that the Pharaoh who made Joseph ruler over Egypt pictures the principle which rules the natural level of the mind of the person who is regenerating — what Swedenborg calls the "new natural." Recent biblical research tells us that this Pharaoh was of the line called the "shepherd kings." The Pharaoh of our lesson today — who was of a different line — represents the principle of worldliness which rules the natural level of the mind of the person who is not regenerating. This principle resists with all its power any effort to set free in the mind those higher spiritual faculties which are represented by the children of Israel. Perhaps we have had the experience of trying to introduce New Church teachings into the mind of some thoroughly worldly person and have been shocked at our inability to make any impression and at the revelation of what lay back of an apparently orderly and pleasant exterior. The story of the plagues is the story of such a revelation.

There were ten plagues, preceded by the miracle of the rod becoming a serpent, and followed by the "spoiling" of the Egyptians. These plagues were not in any sense arbitrary manifestations of divine power. Pharaoh, stubbornly insisting upon the bondage of the Israelites, pictures the natural level of the mind insisting on keeping the spiritual level in subjection. When a person is in this state, true order is inverted and power from the Lord flowing into his will and understanding is turned to destruction, the destruction of what is good and true. This destruction proceeds gradually, by successive steps, represented by the successive plagues; at first only annoying for a time, but later beginning to destroy the necessaries of life and finally depriving him of all that is dearest to him. Swedenborg tells us that all noxious things are created through evils in men.

The plagues in Egypt actually took place, but they were wrought not as punishments from the Lord but as materializations — for our instruction — of the actual, inevitable results in the soul of centering one's affections and thoughts on the natural world and on self-gratification through it. In reading the story we note that the magicians of Egypt were able to reproduce the first two plagues but no further ones, and that as soon as their power was insufficient, they recognized that Moses had power from the divine (Exodus 8:18-19). We learn from the writings that the magic practiced in the eastern countries was accomplished by means of the knowledge of correspondence which they had by tradition from the Ancient Church.

A point which always strikes us in this story is Pharaoh's seeming stupidity in requiring so many disasters to convince him. But our own experience may be cited in answer. Have we, for example, never suffered from overeating, and did we learn from one such experience? When we are suffering from the effects of some physical indulgence, we think how foolish we were to do it and resolve to change our habits, but how quickly we forget once the suffering is over! We are taught that no one is regenerated through punishments. Punishments, however, are inevitable results of wrongdoing, and the plagues are a wonderful study in the progressive devastation wrought by persistent materialism, one of the most universal temptations of our modern world.

The meaning of the various plagues can be studied in detail only by reading the Arcana, but we should note that they follow each other logically. For example, the first plague, the turning of the water into blood, represents the falsification of truth — what we do when we use truth or twist it to support what we want to believe — and when this is done, the next step is to derive enjoyment from constant reasoning from this falsity. This is the plague of frogs. Swedenborg develops the meaning of each of the plagues and gives many illuminating illustrations.

The Plagues

1. All the water in the land was turned into blood: Truth being falsified.

2. Frogs were brought up from the river and filled everything in the land: The mind becoming full of the enjoyment of arguing from falsity.

3. The dust of the earth was turned into lice (or gnats): Sensual desires excited by the contemplation of earthly pleasures.

4. Swarms of flies settled on everything in the land: All sorts of false thoughts filling the mind.

5. A murrain — a wasting disease — killed all the cattle: All natural good impulses being gradually destroyed.

6. The people broke out with boils: Interior evils manifesting themselves on the surface of the life.

7. The hail and the fire following it destroyed the young crops: Falsity from evil destroying in the mind the truths of the church learned in childhood.

8. Locusts ate up the later crops: Falsity on the outermost plane destroying all remaining goodness.

9. Absolute darkness was upon the land for three days: The mind having become unable to see any genuine truth.

10. The firstborn of everyone in the land died: The "damnation" of those who are in faith separate from charity.

