
=== Intermediate

For this class the connection should be made by calling attention to the fault of the Hebrews in not returning to their true home, noting the death of Joseph in Egypt, and explaining the meaning of the difference between the Pharaoh who made Joseph ruler and the later Pharaoh who "knew not Joseph." This will make it easy to take up the general meaning of the plagues and of Pharaoh's stubbornness.

Recently we had a lesson in the right use of our memory-knowledge. The Pharaoh of Joseph's time represents a good principle ruling in the outmost plane of our mind, a principle which recognizes the wisdom which comes only with knowledge of the Lord and His purposes and is willing to put the desire to serve the Lord above all other motives, as Pharaoh set Joseph over the whole land of Egypt. Then in the Bible story Jacob and all his family were brought down into Egypt and settled in the land of Goshen in the rich Nile delta, where they could be preserved through the seven years of famine.

But today our picture is very different. Jacob and Joseph died in Egypt. You remember that Jacob pictures goodness in the outward or natural plane of life; and Joseph, the interior goodness which should develop in us if we live rightly, and which is what connects us with the Lord. But sometimes when a person has reached the point where he lives a good outward life and perhaps by joining the church has made the acknowledgment that his life should be lived in service to the Lord, he settles down right there and feels that he is now a pretty good person and doesn't need to go any further.

The children of Israel, when they left the Holy Land, expected to go back to their true home as soon as the famine was over. But Joseph died, and they were too comfortable and too indifferent to go back. And gradually they forgot their own land and even their own God. When the Lord spoke to Moses from the burning bush (Exodus 3), Moses had to ask Him by what name He should be called. In the story the children of Israel represent the higher part of our nature in which the Lord can dwell. The Egyptians represent the side of our nature which connects with the physical world. So you can guess what is meant by the time when the Egyptians had made slaves of the Hebrews. A Pharaoh has come to the throne who "knew not Joseph."

Chapters 7 through 11 of the book of Exodus tell the dramatic story of the ten plagues which were visited upon the Egyptians because of Pharaoh's hardness of heart. These plagues were not punishments, although Pharaoh felt them to be. Neither was it the Lord who "hardened" Pharaoh's heart, even though the letter of the Word says so. You remember that the letter of the Word often speaks in the language of "appearances," that is, it expresses the truth as the evil see it. Just as the Hebrews in the story blamed Moses for their troubles, so it seemed as if the Lord must be keeping Pharaoh from seeing his own folly. But Pharaoh's stubbornness was all his own, and the plagues were only outward manifestations of the evils in his own heart and of the falsities in his own mind.

When a person settles down to enjoy an easy natural life and forgets his duty to the Lord, the love of self and the world gradually perverts all good and destroys all truth in his heart and mind. This is what the plagues picture. The turning of the waters into blood pictures the falsification of truth, that is, the use of truths to support evils of which we are fond. So, for example, people who do not want to go to church or think about religion but are quite willing to give a little something to charity, may point to their "good deeds" and quote the Lord's saying, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." The frogs, lice, flies, and boils are particular types of evil and falsity which overrun the mind; the destruction of the crops and cattle is the killing out of goodness in the heart; and the darkness which finally covers the land is the final inability of such a mind to see anything spiritual. The final plague, the killing of the firstborn, pictures the fact that a person who has reached this state cannot produce any real and lasting truth or goodness in his life. Each plague is a wonderful study in correspondence.

One would think that Pharaoh would have been convinced long before he was, but his conduct is typical of those who do not want to change their selfish ways. When they are in trouble, they make promises of amendment, but once the trouble is past, they fall back into their former state. That explains why Swedenborg says that no one is regenerated in a state of physical illness or by the prospect of immediate death. Fear merely serves to check the accomplishment of evil desires. It does not really change the desire. Such change must be of our free choice.

