
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Part of the connecting story has been given to the Juniors in the form of questions. Looking up in class the references given after the questions may take too much time. If the pupils cannot answer any given question, the teacher should answer it briefly, but the pupils should be encouraged to look up and read the Bible passages afterward at home. The lesson to be emphasized is suggested in the last paragraph of the pupils' notes.

---
The word exodus means a "going out," and the book of Exodus is the story of how the children of Israel were finally let out of Egypt and of the first part of their journey in the wilderness. The story of Moses is another very familiar story and you will probably be able to remember it.

What command had Pharaoh given? (Exodus 1:15-16) What did Moses' mother do to save him? (Exodus 2:1-4) Who adopted Moses? (Exodus 2:5-10)

Why did Moses have to flee from Egypt? (Exodus 2:11-14) Where did he go? (Exodus 2:15)

Who was Moses' father-in-law? (Exodus 2:16-21)

Where was Moses when the Lord called him? (Exodus 3:1-6) What did the Lord tell him to do? (Exodus 3:10)

What signs did the Lord give Moses? (Exodus 4:1-5)

Who did the Lord tell him would be prepared to help him? (Exodus 4:14-17)

What request did Moses and Aaron make of Pharaoh? (Exodus 5:3)

How did Pharaoh answer? (Exodus 5:4-9)

Now comes our lesson for today. Moses first showed Pharaoh the sign of his power which the Lord had taught him. Aaron cast his rod down and it became a serpent. Pharaoh called in the magicians and sorcerers of Egypt and they were able to do the same thing; only Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods. These men knew how to do magic because they understood how things in nature are produced by things of the spirit or mind. This knowledge of correspondences had come down to the Egyptians by tradition, and it was one of their favorite studies. Because they and people like them used this knowledge for evil purposes, it was afterwards lost. Bad men can often do things which outwardly seem like the deeds of good men; but there are many things they cannot do because they are not good and the Lord's power is not available to them. So the magicians of Egypt could do only the simplest of the things Moses did.

Our lesson today shows us how the Lord through Moses and Aaron and the rod sent one plague after another upon the Egyptians. There were ten plagues in all:

1. All the water in the land was turned to blood.

2. Millions of frogs came up from the river and got into everything.

3. The dust of the earth was turned into lice (or gnats).

4. Swarms of flies covered everything in the land.

5. A murrain (a deadly disease) killed all the animals.

6. Everyone — even the magicians — had boils.

7. A terrible hailstorm and fire destroyed the young crops.

8. Locusts ate up everything that was left.

9. Absolute darkness was upon the land for three days.

10. The firstborn of everyone in the land died in one night.

None of these plagues afflicted the Hebrews. You would think that Pharaoh would soon have realized that he must let the Hebrews go. Several times when a plague was at its height, he promised to let them go, but when the plague was over, he would change his mind. Do we ever do that? When we do wrong things and get into trouble, we usually determine to do better, but when the trouble is over, we often forget.

From time to time as the plagues went on, Pharaoh's magicians and his servants begged him to give in, but he was very stubborn. It is always hard for someone who is used to having his own way in everything to admit that he is wrong. The tenth plague finally broke his resistance and he let the children of Israel go, although you may remember that he afterward changed his mind again and pursued them and had to be overcome by the power of the Lord at the Red Sea.

When you come into the Intermediate class, you will study the deeper meaning of the plagues. Each one teaches us a particular lesson about what happens when we persist in refusing to obey the Lord. Everything good in our souls is gradually destroyed until the time comes when nothing can save us from spiritual death.

