
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The meaning of the individual plagues can be discussed in this class. The important lesson is the danger of allowing oneself to fall captive to worldly and materialistic reasoning because of its insidious effect on the mind and heart. "The natural in the man who is being created anew, that is who is being regenerated, is entirely different from what it is in the man who is not being regenerated." (@AC 5326) This is a key to the meaning of our present lesson. The Pharaoh who made Joseph ruler of Egypt stands for the natural side of the person who is being regenerated, and the Pharaoh who stubbornly insisted on keeping the Hebrews as slaves, in spite of the plagues with which his land was afflicted, represents the natural side of the person who is not being regenerated. We need to remember that it is of our own free choice that we are or are not regenerated.

---
Egypt is the plane of memory-knowledge, and the Egyptians represent that part of us which lives on that plane and depends upon it for regular subsistence. The children of Israel — here and throughout the rest of the Old Testament — represent "the church" in us, that higher plane of our nature in which the Lord properly dwells. So the story of how the Pharaohs gradually forgot Joseph and came to make slaves of the Hebrews is the story of how, even in a life which has recognized the Lord and been set in outward order according to the Lord's truth, worldliness can creep in and take possession, enslaving the higher nature.

We wonder sometimes how people become criminals, how anyone growing up can fail to see that "crime does not pay." The Pharaoh of this lesson gives us the answer to this question. In the mind of a person who thinks himself wiser and more powerful than anyone else, any effort to show him the Lord's truth — as pictured by the appeal of Moses and Aaron — awakens more and more stubborn resistance, and as the effort continues it reveals his inner state more and more deeply.

The ten plagues picture this progressive appearance of deeper and deeper falsities and evils which have developed in the inner life of the wholly materialistic and worldly person. The turning of the waters into blood is his turning of truth into falsity by making it support his selfish purposes. The frogs which were brought up out of the river afterward are the enjoyment he takes in his selfish reasoning. It is not hard to see why the magicians of Egypt could reproduce these two miracles, but we should notice that Pharaoh had to appeal to Moses to get rid of the frogs. The magicians could not undo their work.

The plague of lice or gnats is a picture of how the mind of such a man is infested by sensual desires which spring from "the dust of the earth" — the same dust which the serpent was condemned to eat, you remember — and the swarms of flies which followed are the countless false thoughts which fly about and settle in his mind as a result of these sensual desires. The next discovery is that all his natural good desires have wasted away — the murrain or plague on the cattle — and his interior evils begin to break out on the surface, as boils reveal the presence of poison within the system. Then follow the hail and the locusts, the destruction of everything true and good in the outward life, and finally the plague of darkness, picturing the mind no longer able even to see truth. The last plague, the killing of the firstborn, represents the fact that there is no life left in any of the things in which such a person puts his faith, because there is no good left in the heart.

This picture of degeneration is a dark one, but it is very true, as anyone can testify who has tried to speak of spiritual things to a confirmed materialist. The only bright spot in the picture is the fact that the children of Israel are restless under the yoke of Egypt and that Moses and Aaron have been commissioned by the Lord to lead them out. As we have seen, we have to "go down into Egypt" many times during our lives, but we must always keep in mind the purpose for which we have gone there and the fact that our proper home is the Holy Land of spiritual living. And if we are captivated by the apparent advantages of a life in Egypt, we must break the chains that hold us there and take the difficult road back. In this journey it is Moses, the law of the Lord, who is our leader.

