
=== Intermediate

For this class the application of the lesson has been made in terms of the individual rather than of the church as a whole. The teacher may add the further application if he thinks the class is sufficiently mature to deal with it.

You remember that animals correspond to our affections. The two beasts in the vision in chapter 13 represent the kind of affections which develop in men on earth who listen to the dragon. When people stop looking to the Lord in His Word for the truth to guide their lives, ideas are developed which favor the selfish things they want to do, and these ideas in turn increase the evils in their hearts until everything in both their hearts and their minds becomes just the opposite of what it ought to be. For instance, it is natural for us, because of our inherited selfishness, to want things which other people have. As long as we remember the commandments "Thou shalt not steal" and "Thou shalt not covet" and think of them as the Lord's truth, and therefore binding upon us, we shall see our selfishness as wrong and fight it. But if someone tells us "We are born selfish, and cannot help it; so it can't be really wrong for us to try to get all we can for ourselves," and we let ourselves believe this, we shall become less and less honest and generous, and wealth and power will soon seem to us the only sensible things to work for. We know that many people, even church members, feel this way.

It was through this desire for selfish power that the first Christian Church declined, just as all those before it had declined. It did not "abide" in the Lord, but listened to the arguments of selfish men instead, although it still professed to worship the Lord and to call itself Christian. The great doctrine which was developed to excuse the indulgence of selfish desires is called the doctrine of "faith alone." This doctrine teaches that we cannot do anything to deserve heaven — we are all naturally sinners — but that Christ by His death on the cross paid the penalty for all man's sins and so appeased His angry Father; therefore all we really need to do is to acknowledge His sacrifice and by means of it claim the Lord's forgiveness, and if we do this, we shall get to heaven no matter what kind of life we have lived.

It is this doctrine which Swedenborg says the dragon represents, and the two beasts are the people who believe it and use it as an excuse for disobeying the commandments. He says the first beast pictures the laity and the second the clergy. You notice the second beast had "two horns like a lamb," which pictures the fact that they use quotations from the Word to make their doctrine seem true. There are plenty of passages in the Word which show that we cannot have goodness from ourselves, and if we use just this part of them, we can make them seem to teach what the dragon says. An example of this is found in Matthew 19:25-26. But if we read this carefully in connection with everything which is said in the same chapter, we find that we have something to do ourselves. We are saved not by merely saying we believe in the Lord, but by turning to Him for guidance and for help and strength to obey His commandments — help which He always stands ready to give us.

The description of the beast shows us what people are really like when they live according to the doctrine of faith alone. Read the interpretation of the three animals at the end of your notes. And the number six hundred and sixty-six — which is said to be "the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man" - shows us that if men look to themselves or to other men for their ideas of what they ought to feel and think and do, they will come into a state in which they will twist everything in the Word to support their selfish desires. People have often puzzled about this last verse of chapter 13 (Revelation 13:18), although we instinctively recognize that it must have a meaning, for it is natural for us to think of numbers in this way. When we believe we understand a person's motives and the way his mind works, we may say, "I've got his number, all right."

The other part of our lesson assignment — chapter 19 - shows us what the Lord finally did to save men from this false reasoning which was growing stronger in the world and was making men beasts instead of men. We read: "I saw heaven opened." The Lord did open heaven, the heavenly or internal sense of the Word, and so came to men on earth for the second time as the Word to make clear to us what the Scriptures really are and teach. The white horse pictures the true understanding of the Scriptures, its rider - who was King of kings, and Lord of lords — is the Lord, and the "vesture dipped in blood" is the letter of the Word which had been so torn and misused. Revelation 19:17-18 give us our invitation to share in the wonderful feast which this opening of the Scriptures spreads before us. If we accept this invitation, the beast can be cast out, and we shall see so plainly the falsity of all the interpretations of the Word which excuse selfish indulgence that we wonder how anyone could ever for a moment believe them.

