
=== Junior

Try to lead the pupils to give examples of the beast and the dragon from some of their own daily temptations and experiences. You may be able to connect this chapter with problems involved in being a New Churchman by pointing out that the doctrines of the New Church show us the deeper evils in our hearts in addition to the evils of outward conduct, and so require more of us as well as offer us greater opportunities.

In our lesson from chapter 12, what did John first see? 

What threatened the woman and her child?

How was the child saved?

Who fought against the dragon?

What was the dragon called? 

How was the woman saved?

What happened to the flood the dragon cast out of his mouth?

What is the dragon in us?

The vision in our chapter for today follows immediately after the vision of the dragon and is tied in with it in several ways.

What did John see rising out of the sea?

How was the beast like the dragon?

What animals were part of him?

How did the dragon help him?

How was the second beast different from the first?

How were the followers of the beast marked? 

What was the number of the beast?

In this chapter there are again many things which will have to wait for explanation until you are older, but you can understand now something of the difference between the dragon and the two beasts and their relation to each other. You may remember that the woman pictured the New Church, that her child was the true teaching of the church, and that the dragon was the selfish reasonings which would try to destroy the truth in our minds.

But there is something behind these reasonings — our selfish desires. These are the beasts. Notice that the first beast, though he has great power, is obviously ugly. In the Bible a leopard is always a picture of stealthy destructiveness and a bear of outward roughness. The first beast is our selfish desires which can easily be seen to be disagreeable. Each one of you knows what some of these are in yourself. The fact that this beast had one of his heads wounded to death means that we can't help admitting that these desires are wrong. But the second beast had two horns like a lamb, and a lamb is the picture of innocence. Some of our selfish desires can put on the appearance of being innocent and so defend themselves. This is why the Lord says to us: "Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast." If we are really wise, we shall see through all the excuses we make for indulging our selfish desires, even when many of the people around us make these same excuses. We know how strong worldly reasoning is in the world today and how many people really believe that it is all right to think of yourself first. But we should know the beast's number.

Now let us think about how the beast was destroyed.

In chapter 19 what did John see when heaven was opened? 

What was the rider first called?

What is the second name given him?

What is his third name?

Who is he?

John in the beginning of his Gospel tells us that Jesus Christ was "the Word made flesh." The Lord who speaks to us throughout the Word is the same Lord who created the world and all of us and who came into the world as Jesus Christ. He is the only one upon whom we can rely — He is "Faithful and True" - the only one who surely tells us the truth - "the Word of God" — and the only one whose power will always triumph in the end — "King of kings, and Lord of lords." We are all born selfish: the beast is in our hearts, and our minds are eager to accept the arguments of the dragon. But if we believe in the Lord, study His Word, and try to face the truth honestly and to correct our lives according to it, the Lord and the angels are fighting with us and will give us the victory without fail.

