
=== Notes for Parents

The beautiful story of the child Samuel is one of the most familiar in the Bible. His mother's longing for a child led her to promise that if the Lord would only give her a son, she would devote him to the Lord's service. When her son was born, she named him Samuel, which means "God hath heard." And she kept her promise by bringing him to the tabernacle as soon as he was weaned and giving him to Eli, the high priest, to bring up in the service of the tabernacle. The Bible tells us that her faithfulness was rewarded, for the Lord afterward gave her three more sons and two daughters.

We think so much of little Samuel that we are likely to forget the dark things in the story. Eli was a good old man, but his two sons — to whom he had turned over the active conduct of the tabernacle worship — were using their high office for their own profit. Eli knew it and had remonstrated with them, but he did not exercise his authority as he might have done to put a stop to their evil practices. So the message that came to Eli through the child Samuel was that the high priesthood would be taken away from his house. There are lessons here for all of us. Today we sometimes see ministers who appear to care more for their own glory than for the service of the Lord, and there are people who go to church because it is "good business" or so that they will be looked up to in the community, or because a community where there are churches is safer to live in. And the knowledge that there are such people in the church may turn some people away from it, just as it did in Samuel's time. But if we really want to follow the Lord, what other people do will not keep us from worship or from bringing up our children in the service of the Lord.

For our children do come to us from the Lord, and they really belong to Him. They are His children first. They are loaned to us for a time to love and care for and to bring to Him as soon as they are old enough to learn of Him. We should see to it that our children have every opportunity to hear the Lord's voice while they are young and open—minded, so that they may answer as Samuel did: "Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth."

