
=== Primary

The story of Samuel is a vivid one and easy to tell. The teacher should know the story of the first three chapters and tell it as one story. Review the history of the ark and the tabernacle, pointing out that in spite of the many enemies who had passed over the land in the time of the Judges, the tabernacle in the time of our lesson still stands at Shiloh where Joshua had set it up, a descendant of Aaron is still high priest, and some faithful people still come to the tabernacle to worship. Samuel's obedience and willing service should be stressed.

Near the end of the time of the Judges there lived a good woman named Hannah. Hannah had no children, and she wanted a child very much. At the time of one of the great Jewish feasts, Hannah and her husband went to Shiloh, the place where the tabernacle had been set up. There at the tabernacle Hannah prayed the Lord to give her a child, and she promised that if the Lord gave her a child, she would give him to the service of the Lord.

The Lord granted Hannah's prayer. She named her child Samuel, which means "God hath heard." And when Samuel was old enough, she brought him back to Shiloh and gave him to Eli, the high priest, to bring up in the service of the tabernacle. Eli taught him to do all the things a little boy could do to help him.

Eli was a good man but he was very old and growing blind, and he had to have his two sons do most of the things that the high priest usually did in the services and sacrifices of the tabernacle.

The two sons of Eli were also priests, but they were wicked men.

They took for themselves offerings which should have been given to the Lord. The Lord had warned Eli about them, but Eli was not brave enough to stop them.

So the Lord gave Samuel a message for Eli.

How many times did the Lord speak to Samuel?

What did Samuel think at first?

What did Eli finally tell him to do?

What message did the Lord give him?

Now read 1 Samuel 3:19-21.

The Lord speaks to us in the Word, and He wants each one of us to listen to Him and obey Him as Samuel did. Then He can always be with us and help us to do right. You may be glad, too, to know that because Hannah kept her promise to the Lord, He afterward gave her more children — three sons and two daughters.

After Samuel grew up, Eli's wicked sons were killed in a battle and Eli died when he heard the news. But Samuel became the leader of all the children of Israel. He was a priest, the last of the Judges, and a prophet.

