
=== Adult

Probably the best discussion material for this class will be found in the difference between the celestial and the spiritual sense of this chapter and in the danger of refusing to recognize and condemn evil and falsity on the ground that we are taught to look for the good in everyone. Some useful examples may be found in the Intermediate and Senior notes.

We may think of the series of the three great kings — Saul, David, and Solomon — as picturing the increasingly full and satisfying rule of divine truth in our lives as we progress in regeneration and understand it more and more deeply. Consider this divine truth as it is summed up in the two great commandments, love to the Lord and love to the neighbor. From the beginning of our regeneration we recognize these as the essential foundation of a heavenly life.

When we are in the "Saul stage" of understanding, they mean that we should attend and support the church, obey the commandments in their literal sense, assist those about us when they are in trouble, and give to various charitable causes — perhaps take an active part in such work. This understanding enables us to overcome some of our more obvious selfish tendencies, but it inclines us toward self-satisfaction rather than toward humility, and we make mistakes and must eventually see that it is inadequate.

When we study the two great commandments more deeply, especially in the light of their internal meaning, we come into the David stage. We do not discard the good practices which we have developed, but we examine them with a view to finding out what has been genuinely good in the Lord's sight and what we have been doing merely to be seen of men. In our worship we try sincerely to humble ourselves, and in our good works we learn to discriminate between the good and the evil, seeing that it is the good in everyone which is the neighbor to be helped, and that thoughtless and indiscriminate giving may actually promote evil. In this David stage we find within ourselves many "enemies" hitherto unnoticed. The reign of David is a long series of wars and conquests. And here, too, there is the temptation which comes with victory. But if we are willing to accept the Lord's rebuke and repent of our evils, eventually Solomon is born.

In @AE 654[29] we read that Solomon represents "the Lord in relation to His celestial kingdom and His spiritual kingdom." Under Solomon the celestial principle, which is pure unselfish love, is in control of our understanding of divine truth. We now go to church and do good to the neighbor not to be seen of men and not from a sense of our duty to humble self and serve the Lord, but because we love the Lord and the neighbor. We are deeply thankful to the Lord and happy in the happiness of others. The long struggle against the enemies without and within is over and we are at peace. The name Solomon means "peace." The great wisdom and glory of Solomon are representative of the state of the soul at this time, and it is in this stage that the temple of heavenly character is built silently within us out of materials prepared beforehand.

Yet here again victory brings the inevitable temptation. Our chapter for today begins with the word But [KJV]. There is always a "but." The writings tell us that even in the heavens the angels sometimes have to be reminded that their own selfish nature is still with them and that it is only by the Lord's mercy that it is kept quiescent there. We all probably know some old people who apparently have reached the Solomon stage. They live beautiful lives. Their advice is sought on many problems and they stand out as examples in the community. But sometimes we see in them also evidence of Solomon's sin. They are so kindly that they "love" everyone, bad and good alike. They see only good and close their eyes to evil. So they condone false ideas and by so doing lead others astray.

@AE 654[46] points out to us the law which Solomon broke. It is given in Deuteronomy 17:15-17 and includes these words: "Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee whom the Lord thy God shall choose ... but he shall not multiply horses to himself ... Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart turn not away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold." And section 47 of the same number explains that horses in this case signify "false knowledges which are fanciful" and that "As wives signify affections of truth and good, which become the affections of evil and falsity when one man has several wives, it is said 'neither shall he multiply to himself wives that his heart turn not away.' And as 'silver and gold' signify the truths and goods of the church, but here falsities and evils, when they are regarded only from the natural man, it is said 'neither shall he multiply exceedingly to himself silver and gold.'" The section ends with these words: "Because Solomon not only procured for himself horses from Egypt, but also multiplied wives, and heaped up silver and gold, he became an idolater, and after his death the kingdom was divided."

Solomon's original and chief wife was the daughter of Pharaoh king of Egypt. The number of the Apocalypse Explained from which we have been quoting concerns Egypt and contains several references to Solomon. In section 3 of that number we read, "'Egypt' signifies in the Word the natural man in both senses, good and bad," and in section 33: "Because Solomon represented the Lord in relation to both the celestial and the spiritual kingdoms, and as all who are of both these kingdoms are in intelligence and wisdom through the knowledges of truth and good and knowledges that confirm these, therefore 'Solomon took the daughter of Pharaoh to wife, and brought her into the city of David' (1 Kings 3:1); "'And afterwards he built for the daughter of Pharaoh a house beside the porch' (1 Kings 7:8). By this also was represented that knowledge, upon which all intelligence and wisdom is based, is signified by 'Egypt' in a good sense. And as every man of the church has a spiritual, a rational, and a natural, therefore Solomon built three houses, the house of God or the temple to stand for the spiritual, the house of the forest of Lebanon for the rational (for a 'cedar' and thence 'Lebanon' signifies the rational), and the house of the daughter of Pharaoh for the natural."

This leads us to the consideration of the celestial sense of our chapter, and it is important that we understand something of this, for the question is often asked, "How could Solomon represent the Lord when he had seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines?" The writings give us a very clear explanation of this. In @DP 245 we read: "Solomon was permitted to establish idolatrous worship. This was done that he might represent the Lord's kingdom or the church, with all the varieties of religion in the whole world ... And because the Lord after the glorification of His Human had power over heaven and earth ... so Solomon His representative appeared in glory and magnificence, and possessed wisdom above all the kings of the earth, and also built the temple." The Lord's love reaches out to people of all religions and to the evil as well as to the good, and the laws of permission are His way of leading us without interfering with our freedom.

But we must not take these laws of permission into our own hands and use them as justification for indulging our own selfish inclinations. Solomon — both as an individual and as king of Israel - broke a law which he knew, and he and his people suffered accordingly. Read here also @AC 3246[3-4] which tells us that concubinage, while permitted to the earlier church, is not allowable for Christians. We are all responsible for doing our best to live up to the highest truths which have been revealed to us.

