
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Discussion material is suggested in the Adult notes in the references to modern humanism and rejection of revelation. The lesson, however, should be directed toward self-examination rather than toward criticism of society.

---
We have studied the story of the destruction of two of Aaron's sons — Nadab and Abihu — because they offered "strange fire" in their censers (Leviticus 10:1-7); the story of the sending out of the twelve spies from Kadesh and the condemnation of all the adults who voted to follow the advice of the cowardly ten (Numbers 13, 14); and the story of the rebellion of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram (Numbers 16). All these stories show the steady disposition of the Israelites to set up their own will and their own intelligence in opposition to the Lord's commands and instructions. In these striking and dramatic stories it is easy for us to see and condemn the folly of the tendency in the Israelites to set up their own intelligence and their own will against the Lord, but we are slow to recognize this same tendency in ourselves and to acknowledge its foolishness. Yet it is an almost universal tendency. In national life it results in the belief in force rather than in righteousness, in social life in the struggle for money and power, in our individual lives in contempt for those who are different from ourselves and for anyone who disagrees with us. It appears most clearly of all in one modern theory that the Bible is the work of men — rather pretentiously described as "man's ascending search for God" — and in the tendency of churches, including our own, to measure themselves and their members in terms of external activities instead of in terms of justice and righteousness.

In our chapter for today the Lord gives the people a sign. The story is a simple one and we may wonder why the mere miraculous blossoming of a rod should have convinced the people. Yet the last two verses of the chapter indicate that, coming on top of the terrible events described in the preceding chapter, it did convince them, for the time at least.

What does this story mean for us? The Lord at Sinai had appointed Aaron to be high priest. His sons were also to be priests, and the high priesthood was to descend in his line. Aaron and Moses were descendants of Levi, who among the twelve sons of Jacob represents charity. In @AC 342 Swedenborg says: "The church conceives and brings forth nothing else than faith and charity. The same is signified by the first children of Leah from Jacob; 'Reuben' denoting faith; 'Simeon' faith in act; and 'Levi' charity, wherefore also the tribe of Levi received the priesthood, and represented the 'shepherd of the flock.'" He says elsewhere that charity is love to the neighbor in the heart, springing from love to the Lord, and that recognition of the Lord and charity are the essentials of the church.

But among the Levites Aaron was singled out to be high priest.

Aaron, like other individuals in the Bible story, has his basic correspondence, but it takes on various colorings according to the context in which he appears. Basically he represents "the Lord as to Divine good or the priesthood." But before he became high priest, when he was assigned to Moses "for a mouth," he represents "the doctrine of what is good and true." We saw this representation in our lesson on the battle with Amalek. Whenever Moses and Aaron are named together, Moses represents the divine law as it is in its inward sense, and Aaron the same law in its literal sense. In our present chapter it is Aaron as high priest whose authority has been called into question. Since in that office he represents the Lord as to good, to question his authority is to refuse to recognize that "there is none good but one, that is, God." Whenever we find ourselves thinking of ourselves as good, finding fault with others because they are not doing what we do, assuming that our own motives are above reproach and that what we think the Bible ought to mean is what it must mean, we are rebelling against the high priesthood of Aaron. It is a sad commentary on our inherited nature that it is so hard for us to learn the lesson of humility which is taught throughout the Word and emphasized again and again in the writings. Swedenborg tells us that without innocence there can be no charity and, as we saw in our lesson on the Passover, he defines innocence as "to know, acknowledge, and believe, not with the mouth but with the heart, that nothing but evil is from one's self and that all good is from the Lord."

The rod is a symbol of power, specifically of the power exercised by truth. The twelve tribes represent all the goods and truths of the church in a complex. The rods of the tribes are symbols of the power exercised by these. We need them all, but each has its specific place and use, and their immediate importance varies with the circumstances in which we are from time to time. We learn this, for example, as we study the shifting order in which the tribes are named in different stories in the Word. But the office of the tribe of Levi remains constant. Levi is given no separate lot in the Holy Land but is established in cities in every part of it. When the rods of the twelve tribes were laid before the ark in the Holy of Holies, only the rod of Aaron for the tribe of Levi blossomed and bore fruit.

We are familiar with the correspondence of the seed—plant series.

The seed is truth from the Word, the tree itself represents a certain principle, the leaves thoughts from that principle, the blossoms particular thoughts leading to uses, the fruit the uses themselves. Nuts, because they last a long time, represent lasting goods. Of the almond Swedenborg says in @AC 5622: "This tree itself signifies in the spiritual sense a perception of interior truth which is from good, its 'blossom' interior truth which is from good, and its 'fruit' good of life thence derived." So the sign of Aaron's rod means that only the acknowledgment — from the heart — that the Lord alone is good can produce genuine good in the life. The laying of the twelve rods before the ark shows us that it is the Lord's judgment and not man's which counts.

The later laying up of Aaron's rod before the ark, "to be kept as a token against the rebels," tells us that the principle pictured by the fruitful rod should be taken to heart and never forgotten, so that we may not be guilty of setting ourselves up in judgment upon the Lord, the sin which caused the earth to open and swallow up Dathan and Abiram and fire from the Lord to consume Korah and the two hundred and fifty "princes of the assembly" who supported him in his rebellion. This is a lesson which is much needed today when some people are making a cult of the worship of humanity, claiming the innate goodness of human nature, attempting to build up a moral code without belief in revelation, and making external benefactions the test of goodness. The second of the two great commandments cannot be obeyed independently of the first; and the Lord's "new commandment" - "as I have loved you, that ye also love one another" — points with equal positiveness to the necessity of looking to the Lord for the understanding of what love to the neighbor involves and for the power to develop and exercise this love.

