
=== Intermediate

A considerable part of the lesson time will need to be spent on background. The meaning of the lesson for the day itself is simple and should be given as a climax.

Our lesson today is from the book of Numbers. We have learned the meaning of the names Genesis and Exodus and why these two books are so called. The book of Leviticus is the detailed statement of the code of laws given to Moses at Sinai. These were called the "Levitical" laws because the tribe of Levi was set apart by the Lord to have charge of the Jewish worship and to teach and enforce the law. If we read the first four verses of the first chapter of the book of Numbers, we find the reason for its name. Before the people left Sinai, Moses was commanded by the Lord to number or count all the people by tribes, and there are many places in the book where numbers are prominent and where our attention is called to the twelve tribes, their leaders, and their individual functions. Our lesson for today is one of these.

In Exodus 28 we learn that among the Levites Aaron and his sons were given the priestly office by the Lord, and in Exodus 40 their solemn consecration to this office is described. Aaron himself was to be high priest, and only a descendant of his could hold that office.

The greater part of the wilderness journey came after the Israelites left Sinai. Chapter 33 of Numbers lists their stopping places. When they reached Kadesh near the southern border of the Holy Land, at the command of the Lord Moses sent twelve men — one from each tribe — to spy out the land. But the people let themselves be discouraged from attempting its conquest because ten of the spies said the enemies there were too strong for them. The other two spies, Joshua and Caleb, reminded them that the Lord was with them but they were not listened to, and so the Lord told them that they would have to wander in the wilderness until all who had been of age to vote at the time of the decision — except Joshua and Caleb — had died. So it was actually forty years before the entry into the Holy Land took place. We know from experience how prone we are, when we are suffering from the effects of some wrongdoing of our own, to try to find someone else to blame. The Israelites blamed Moses and Aaron. The rule of Moses and Aaron pictures the rule of divine truth and love. When we turn against this, "the earth" — that is, worldliness — swallows us up and the love of our hearts is turned into consuming self-love. This is the negative side of the picture, detailed in the story of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.

But the Lord, in the Word, follows this with a beautiful picture of the positive results of obedience to divine law. The twelve tribes picture all our good affections and thoughts, the tribe of Levi and especially Aaron as high priest portraying love of goodness from the Lord. The rods, one from each tribe, are symbols of power, the principles which put the various affections into practice.

We have many good affections: love of learning, love of useful service, etc. These are some of the things represented by the rods. But all these may fail under temptation. There is only one love which can carry us through everything, and that is love of the Lord — the power of which is symbolized by Aaron's rod.

The teachings of our church tell us that we are to shun evils as sins against God. This means that we are to judge our conduct by the standard of the Lord's laws instead of by any standards we make for ourselves or find in the world about us. Only in this way can we be sure of avoiding evil and doing good.

Aaron's rod, the power of love to the Lord, "brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds." The buds stand for impulses toward good deeds; the blossoms, thoughts about how to do them; and the almonds, genuine good works, for nuts are both nourishing and lasting.

Moses was commanded to lay up Aaron's rod beside the ark in the Holy of Holies. In the same way, we must hold fast in our hearts to the one true guiding principle, which is love to the Lord.

