
=== Junior

The historical and geographical sequences are important for this age group. The teacher should have a map to show them. The moral lesson is within their reach, and they can also get some idea of the correspondence of the seed/plant series, which will show them the reason for the Lord's choice of this particular sign.

Where did the children of Israel camp for eleven months? 

What did they all hear the Lord speak from the mount? 

What other instructions were given at Sinai?

Where did Moses have to go to speak with the Lord?

How long was he gone the last time?

What did the people ask Aaron to do?

What did he make for them?

What did he use to make it?

When Moses came down, what was he carrying? What did he do with them?

What did he do with the golden calf?

Where did Moses cut two new tables of stone?

Who wrote the commandments on them?

During the rest of their stay at Sinai, the people were kept busy with the construction of the tabernacle and its furnishings and the dedication of it with sacrifices and offerings. This was the kind of thing they could see and enjoy. The tribe of Levi was set apart by the Lord to have charge of everything pertaining to worship. They were to set up the tabernacle when the people camped and to take it down and carry it when the march was resumed, and they were to assist in the offerings and ceremonies. But only Aaron and his sons could be priests. The Lord appointed Aaron to be high priest, and no one but a descendant of his was ever to hold this office.

Finally the pillar of cloud moved. The people were set on the march by the blowing of two special silver trumpets. They were led into the wilderness of Paran which forms a large part of the Arabian peninsula north of Sinai. The thirty-third chapter of Numbers lists the stopping places in their order. Finally they reached Kadesh-barnea, very near the southern border of the Holy Land. But they did not go forward then. They sent twelve men — one from each tribe — to spy out the land, and ten of them came back and said they found enemies there too strong for the Israelites to conquer. And although the other two spies — Joshua and Caleb — reminded them that the Lord was with them and urged them to go forward, they voted to take the advice of the other ten. And the Lord said that because of their lack of faith they would have to go on wandering about in the wilderness until all the men who had been old enough to vote at that time — except Joshua and Caleb — had died. When we are being punished for some wrong thing we have done, we are never very happy, are we? We often forget that it was all our own fault and try to put the blame on innocent people, sometimes on the very ones who tried to keep us from doing wrong in the first place. Our story for today is really a continuation of the story of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.

What did the Lord tell Moses to have brought for each tribe? 

How many rods were there?

How were they to know which was which?

Whose name was written on the rod of the tribe of Levi? 

What did Moses do with the rods?

In the morning what had happened to Aaron's rod? 

What was Moses told to do with Aaron's rod?

You know what almonds are. They are nuts which keep well, have a fine flavor, and are nourishing. And the almond tree has lovely blossoms, too. The Lord made Aaron's rod blossom and bear almonds to show the people that only worship in obedience to the Lord could make them happy and good.

The people really knew that it was the Lord who had appointed Aaron, but people are not always ready to accept the Lord's will. We like to think we can be good in our own way. We have many good affections: love of our parents, love of study, love of making useful things, love of certain kinds of work, etc. All these lead us to do some good things. But sometimes none of these is strong enough to keep us from doing wrong, especially when we think no one will know what we have done. Only love of the Lord can always keep us in the right way, for we know that the Lord sees and knows everything we do, and even everything we think and feel. We must always remember this. That is why Aaron's rod was to be laid up beside the ark in the Holy of Holies of the tabernacle. You remember the first commandment. And the Lord says that the commandments should be written in our hearts. Our story for today is put in the Bible to help us see that only by obeying the Lord can we be happy.

