
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Bring out especially Aaron's position with reference to Moses and the people. This class should learn the function of the Levites and that of Aaron and his sons, and should have the background story of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram refreshed in their minds. They are not too young to get the general lesson of the blossoming rod.

---
After the golden calf was destroyed, Moses set the people to work to build the tabernacle, a special tent in which they were to worship the Lord. The Lord had given Moses exact directions for making the tabernacle and the furniture that was to be in it. The holiest piece of furniture was the ark, a box or chest covered with gold, in which were kept the two tables of stone with the ten commandments written on them. You remember that Moses broke the first tables when he came down and found the people worshiping the golden calf. But afterward the Lord told Moses to hew out two new tables from the stone at the foot of the mountain and bring them up, and the Lord wrote the commandments on them again for the people.

Do you remember the name of Moses' brother who went everywhere with him? It was Aaron. The Lord told Moses that Aaron was to be the high priest of Israel and that Aaron's sons were also to be priests. The whole tribe of Levi, to which Moses and Aaron belonged, were to have charge of the tabernacle and its furnishings and of all the things connected with the people's worship, but only Aaron and his sons could perform the highest services.

After they left Sinai, the pillar of cloud and fire led them from place to place through the wilderness, and the people began to blame Moses and Aaron for their long journey and all their troubles. They blamed them for all their troubles.

They thought someone else should be high priest. What did the Lord tell Moses to do?

How many rods were brought to him?

How were they to know which was which?

Where were the rods placed?

Next morning what did Moses find had happened to Aaron's rod? What did this mean?

What did the Lord tell Moses to do with Aaron's rod?

