
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The principal lesson for this age is in the necessity of distinguishing between good works done from self and good works done from the desire to serve and obey the Lord. Even in the church there is a great deal of self-praise. There is no interior life in good works performed in this spirit.

---
It is not until the tenth chapter of the book of Numbers that we find the Israelites leaving Sinai. First the tabernacle and its furnishings had to be constructed, set up, and consecrated, and worship begun according to the prescribed rites. The Lord had named Aaron as high priest (Exodus 28) and his sons as priests under him, and the priesthood was to continue in his family. The book of Leviticus gives the detailed code of laws to be taught and administered by the tribe of Levi, to which both Moses and Aaron belonged. Then at the command of the Lord, all the people were numbered or counted by tribes, the event which gives the book of Numbers its name.

If you will look at a map of the wilderness journey, you will find that the Israelites traveled in a fairly steady line from Sinai to Kadesh-barnea near the southern border of the Holy Land. Their encampments along the way are given us in Numbers 33. At Kadesh they sent forward twelve men to spy out the Holy Land; but when the spies returned, the people allowed themselves to be discouraged from attempting the conquest. For their lack of trust in the Lord's power to give them victory — a power which Joshua and Caleb urged them to acknowledge — they were condemned to continue in the wilderness until all those over twenty years of age (voting age) at the time of their weak decision should have died. With the loss of their immediate hope and incentive, their natural selfishness inspired them to continual grumblings and to dissatisfaction with the leaders whom the Lord had given to them. The immediate background of our chapter is the rebellion of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram and the two hundred and fifty "princes of the assembly" against Moses and Aaron. Their punishment is a vivid picture of the worldliness and self-love which overtake those who rebel against the Lord's direction while professing to worship Him.

But after this terrible lesson the Lord gave the people another sign, a beautiful one this time, of the fact that only love to the Lord is able to produce genuine and lasting fruit. We recognize the twelve tribes as standing for all our good affections and thoughts. A rod is a symbol of power. Aaron, as high priest and leader of the priestly tribe, represents the principle that life should be lived in recognition of the Lord and in the attempt to learn and do His will. This principle alone has power to make our lives truly happy and fruitful.

We can imagine that the rods, in the hands of their owners, all inspired respect among the people. We hear people say, even of a man who is an atheist, that he is a good man because he does things which benefit humanity. But we should realize that if such a man does recognize his duty to do good to others, it is from some early religious influence and training or from the acceptance of standards in the community which stemmed from a religious source, and that if he does not recognize God in what he does, he is ascribing goodness to himself. His goodness is then merely on the outside and is not genuine, for we read in the Gospels: "There is none good but one, that is, God." What the Lord shows us in this story is that He alone is the source of the power to do good, and that in His sight — when the rods are laid before the ark in the tabernacle — all principles except that of loving obedience to Him are unfruitful.

The almond was appropriate for several reasons. It is a noble and beautiful tree, blossoming profusely (see Jeremiah 1:11). The blossoms are lovely, and the fruit delicious, nourishing, and lasting. The blossoms of a plant or tree represent our thoughts about specific uses or good works; and the fruit, the good works themselves. If our lives are governed by the principle of love to the Lord and desire to do His will, we shall find delight in thinking about His truth and its specific applications, and we shall find deep and lasting joy in serving Him from day to day. Our lives will not be sterile when laid before the judgment seat of the Lord.

There seems to have been enough power in this final demonstration of the leadership of Moses and Aaron to convince the people. The final proof to us of the rightness of the Lord's guidance is the joy that comes in doing His will. Until we see and taste this satisfaction we are constantly tempted to turn back toward self. And we, too, must "lay up the fruitful rod before the ark" as a constant reminder. That is, the Lord's laws must be written in our hearts. In times of trouble and temptation we must remind ourselves of the blessings that have come to us in the past through obedience, and so hold steadfast.

