
=== Notes for Parents

Palm Sunday commemorates the entry of the Lord into Jerusalem at the beginning of the last week of His life on earth. We know that throughout the three years of His public ministry the Lord had been going about through Palestine and the country beyond Jordan teaching, preaching, and healing. Although His power to heal drew crowds of people to follow Him, there is no record that He ever tried to attract the crowds or even that He was pleased to have them. In fact, He told them plainly that many of them were following Him merely for the loaves and fishes. He said without hesitation many things which He knew would drive many of them away, and it is often recorded that He withdrew from them and sought to be alone with His close disciples. If we take the Lord as our example, we shall do our Christian work quietly and without worrying about appealing to crowds. The Lord said, "Where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them."

The entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday was the only time when the Lord purposely displayed the tokens of His real position, and this was in fulfillment of the prophecy spoken through the prophet Zechariah (Zechariah 9:9), for the Lord came, as He said, to "fulfill the law and the prophets." It was the custom of kings and judges to ride on donkeys, and the multitude hailed the Lord as king. The Lord knew that within the week which was beginning they would turn against Him and put Him to death. He was teaching them and us a lesson which every one of us needs.

A king is the accepted ruler of a nation. In our lives the principle which we have accepted to rule our thought and conduct is our "king." Each one of us, as you may remember from our lesson about Elijah, is given the choice of accepting the Lord or Baal — divine truth, or the principle of worldliness and self-interest — as our ruler. But we cannot divide our allegiance: as the Lord Himself tells us, "ye cannot serve God and mammon." When we try to serve both, it is our spiritual principles which are sacrificed, as the events of the last week of the Lord's earthly life show.

When the people welcomed the Lord into Jerusalem as king, they cast their garments and branches from the palm trees before Him. This is a picture of the willingness we should have to give up our own ideas — the garments in which we have clothed our souls - and to recognize that divine truth should rule us and that all power to bring happiness and peace to us and to the world is in the Lord alone.

But what all too often happens? The Lord's first act on entering Jerusalem was to drive out from the temple those who were using their religion for selfish gain. The temple symbolizes our character in its spiritual aspects. To cleanse the temple is to "search the soul" and expose and reject all its deep-seated selfishness. It was the cleansing of the temple which started the conflict that ended in the Lord's death on the cross.

