
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
It has been thought best to center the lesson in the Adult notes on two or three major themes. Other points may come up, however, and the teacher should be thoroughly prepared. Further very interesting discussion material may be found especially in @AC 7984, 7995, and 8005.

---
It is important to remember that the Israelites in the first place came down into Egypt to be nourished — under Joseph's protection — during the years of famine. They should have returned to their own country when the famine was over. But their home in Egypt seemed to promise more ease and prosperity than they had ever had. Joseph died, and his body was embalmed and put in a coffin in Egypt. If we should forget that the study of the letter of the Word and of the doctrines of our church is enjoined only for the purpose of enabling us to make spiritual progress, to serve the neighbor better, and so to draw closer to heaven and to the Lord, we may find that there are worldly rewards even for this study which may seem to us more real and desirable than heaven. But if we succumb to this appeal, gradually the plane of our daily life will come to be ruled by a principle which looks to self-interest rather than to the Lord's truth for direction. As Exodus 1:8 puts it, "There arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph."

Then the Lord has to let us learn "the hard way." The Israelites became slaves in Egypt. Life in this state is full of worldly cares and anxieties and becomes a burden. When Moses was called to lead his people out of Egypt, they had not only become slaves to Pharaoh but they were worshiping the golden calf [or so Swedenborg implies in @AC 9391[7]. There is no biblical statement to this effect. -Editor] and had forgotten even the name of the true God. They had to be taught by bitter experience the ruin in which they had permitted themselves to become involved. The ten plagues represent the gradual uncovering by divine law — represented by Moses — of the falsities and evils to which a purely worldly life leads. Not only did the Egyptians suffer, but Pharaoh imposed harder and harder conditions on the Hebrews as the plagues progressed. Only the final plague procured their release.

We are born natural, and the purpose of our life here is that we may become regenerate. "Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God." In the writings, faith is called the firstborn because it is the means by which falsity and evil are overcome and we become children of the first resurrection. The firstborn of Israel were saved. But when faith is destroyed, there can be no salvation. Spiritually the firstborn of Pharaoh is the faith of obedience from fear, without any love for doing what is right. This faith does not stand in the face of severe temptation. The firstborn of Egypt dies. This is the final judgment on the evil; all memory-knowledge of good and truth finally perishes, and with it the means of amendment.

But the possessions of the Egyptians are not in themselves evil.

Egypt represents the natural plane of life, not only our life in the world but the most outward state of the church — its rituals, forms, and ceremonies. As a church declines in spirituality, it tends to make its rituals more elaborate, its buildings more impressive, and to amass wealth in silver and gold. Yet these are all good and necessary things. They are a defense to spiritual life. Regular external worship, instruction, hymns and prayers, the recitation of one's faith, teaching about religion and the letter of the Word are necessary. The more we know of the letter of the Word the better we are prepared to understand its spirit. We acquire memory-knowledge of many important and useful things, and these can serve us in our spiritual life. So the Hebrews were commanded to "borrow" of the Egyptians, and they took with them into their new life the treasures so acquired. We need to "borrow" of the Egyptians "vessels of gold and silver," the letter of the Word and the forms of worship which contain and protect the real treasure of the church, love to the Lord and the neighbor. And we also need to borrow "raiment,' the commandments in their letter, the moral truths and principles of life kept as laws of man and of earthly success. We should appropriate from what our memories receive everything that serves and supports spiritual life.

Following the last plague the Passover was instituted. It was to become the most important of the Jewish feasts, and was to be observed annually as a memorial of their deliverance from Egypt. And this festival has been kept by the Jewish Church down the ages to the present day.

We are probably familiar with the thought that lambs represent innocence, and that eating lamb represents appropriating this quality of innocence. But just what is innocence? We associate the quality with little children, and think of their simplicity and trust and their ignorance of any real evil. This is the "innocence of ignorance" of which Swedenborg speaks. But when the Lord says, "Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven," He is not asking us to return to a state of ignorance. Swedenborg speaks of another kind of innocence, which he calls the "innocence of wisdom." The word innocent means "not harming," and we need to recognize that all desires we may have to injure others — whether these desires are impulsive and fleeting or deep-seated and rankling — are from the love of self. In @AC 3994, in interpreting Jacob's choice of black lambs as his wages in Haran, Swedenborg says that black signifies what is man's own, and continues, "An own [proprium] that is innocent is to know, acknowledge, and believe, not with the mouth but with the heart, that nothing but evil is from one's self and that all good is from the Lord; and therefore that what is man's own is nothing but blackness; that is to say, not only the own of his will, which is evil, but also the own of his understanding, which is falsity. When man is in this confession and belief from the heart, the Lord flows in with good and truth." This is the innocence of wisdom, which the Passover lamb signifies.

To sprinkle the blood of this lamb on the doorposts and lintel of the house is to write this truth on every thought we permit to enter the mind and on every desire also. To eat the lamb "roast with fire" instead of raw or "sodden with water" is to receive it from love, not without love nor yet from the mere enjoyment of knowing it. Unleavened bread is truth purified from falsity and bitter herbs signify "by means of temptations." That all of it shall be used means that it shall be made part of us "from the inmost to the external." And verse 11 means that we should stand prepared to think and act in every respect from this deep conviction with regard to self and the Lord.

The journey from Egypt to Canaan was to be long and difficult, although the people were not aware of this. This journey is the symbol of our spiritual journey from natural to spiritual living, and the Passover was the preparation for it. At the Passover feast immediately preceding His betrayal and crucifixion the Lord said to the twelve, "With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer." Then He instituted the Holy Supper, which for the Christian Church takes the place of the Passover and is given to strengthen and protect us in our journey of life. In this new Christian form the Passover will be celebrated forever.

The lamb that was sacrificed in the Passover represents the Lord.

So John the Baptist declared, "Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world." In its inmost meaning the lamb is the Lord as to His divine innocence, the offering up of every selfish and worldly impulse and the complete consecration to the divine will and guidance.

