
=== Intermediate

The lesson for this class is the general meaning of the Passover and the correspondence of the details of the feast, and this should be carried over into a discussion of the Holy Supper.

We have studied the birth of Moses, his preparation and call by the Lord, and the ten plagues which he was permitted to bring upon the Egyptians in order to induce Pharaoh to let the children of Israel go back to the land of Canaan. They should have gone back as soon as the famine was over. A time of famine, you remember, pictures a crisis in our lives when we do not know what to do and realize that we need more knowledge; the land of Egypt pictures the plane of memory-knowledge. Egypt with Joseph as its ruler pictures the whole field of external truth as to both natural and spiritual things properly related to our true purpose in life. This means knowledge of the letter of the Word and in addition, for us in the New Church, knowledge of the writings of Swedenborg by means of which the Lord shows us the true doctrine to be drawn from the Word. We need this knowledge.

But we might spend all our lives studying the Bible and the writings and find the study very interesting and absorbing without ever trying to use what we learn to discover and correct our own evils or to help other people. This is what is pictured by the fact that the children of Israel did not go back to the Holy Land when the famine was over. They found themselves comfortable and prosperous in Egypt and forgot their true home and their duty to the Lord and finally even the name of their own God. The principle which had ruled them when they first came to Egypt had changed:

"There arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph." (Exodus 1:8) The Israelites gradually became slaves, just as we, if we do not use our knowledge in the Lord's service, become slaves to mere learning. Life becomes a burden and the Lord has to show us — sometimes by hard experiences — the way back to happiness.

For the Israelites, the deliverance from bondage in Egypt marked the great event which made possible the development of their nation and their religion. They were told to make the month in which they left Egypt the first month of their year, and the Passover was celebrated from the fourteenth to the twenty-first of that month. When the Lord came to Jerusalem the last week of His life on earth, it was to celebrate the Passover. So you can remember that the Passover is always celebrated by Jews during the week preceding our Easter.

The Passover was named from the fact that the houses of the Hebrews were passed over by the "angel of death" in the night when the firstborn son of everyone else in Egypt died, as well as the firstborn of all cattle. This was the tenth and last plague, and pictures the final result of a wholly worldly and selfish life, when there is no longer any possibility of the development of a living faith, which is represented by the firstborn. This is the state in which all those are who are in the hells; Swedenborg tells us that they reject any good or truth which is presented to them, just as Pharaoh and the Egyptians finally were eager to drive out the Israelites, and even to give up with them their "jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment," which picture all the good and truth which remained in their possession.

The Passover feast was to become a memorial of deliverance.

You may remember that in one of the visions of the book of Revelation the Lord is seen in the form of a lamb "as it had been slain." The lamb is the symbol of innocence. Swedenborg tells us that innocence is "to know, acknowledge, and believe, not with the mouth but with the heart, that nothing but evil is from one's self, and that all good is from the Lord." The word innocence means "harmlessness," and if we stop to think, we shall realize that it is always pride in ourselves which makes us say and do things which hurt other people. If we try to be honest and see ourselves as we really are deep down inside, the Lord can give us this quality of innocence. But we must really want to know the truth about ourselves. This quality of innocence must be sought from love — this is the symbolism of "being roast with fire." Unleavened bread pictures truth or goodness unmixed with any false ideas. Bitter herbs represent temptations — there will be some hardship and difficulty connected with our journey to heaven. And we are to be ready to start on this road at once, to put into immediate practice our good resolutions.

For the Jews the Passover was, and still is, celebrated as a memorial of the deliverance of their nation from bondage in Egypt. The Lord at His last Passover gave the Christian Church a new feast to celebrate in its place — the feast of the Holy Supper. For us the Lord is the paschal lamb who came on earth, took on our nature with all its temptations, and gave His life to us for our example. When we worship Him in the Holy Supper and accept Him as our example, we are "eating the paschal lamb," for He called the bread and wine His body and blood. The celebration of the Holy Supper — like the Passover in its deeper meaning - pictures our full realization of the evils to which a worldly and selfish life leads, and our determination with the Lord's help to turn our backs upon such a life and travel the long hard journey to the Holy Land, under the guidance of divine law — which is represented by Moses. We take with us all that is valuable of our worldly knowledge and accomplishments, and our characters just as they are up to the point of our new resolution. Verses 34 to 39 of our chapter picture this. We are not suddenly made over into good and wise people as some churches try to believe. Conversion is not salvation. Conversion is merely the resolution to change our ways. All the trials and temptations are still to come, and we shall make many mistakes and suffer many failures before we reach even the borders of the Holy Land itself.

