
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In covering the review and introduction be sure the Older Children have the answers to all the questions in their notes. The historical aspects of the lesson should be stressed — length of time in Egypt, increase in numbers, continuation of the Passover to the present day, etc. - and finally the connection between the Passover and the Holy Supper should be brought out and emphasized.

---
What is the name of the second book in the Bible?

Exodus means "a going out." The book tells the story of the fulfillment of Joseph's prediction (Genesis 50:24), which did not come for almost two hundred years after he died. Read Exodus 1:8. This is the key to all that followed. Let us see how much you remember of the story:

Why had the Egyptians become afraid of the Hebrews?

What had Pharaoh done to them?

How many plagues did Moses and Aaron bring upon the Egyptians?

What was the final plague?

The children of Israel had been saved from all the plagues. But from the tenth they were saved in a special way. They had to do something themselves.

What was it?

Why was the feast to be called the Passover?

What did it consist of?

How were they to eat it?

In verse 2 of our chapter we learn that this event was so important that the Lord told the Hebrews to change their calendar so that the month of the Passover should be the first month of their religious year. It was one of the spring months. Their months were governed by the phases of the moon and do not exactly coincide with any of our months. So this first Hebrew month sometimes begins in March and sometimes early in April, depending on the moon. Many years afterward the Lord was crucified during the Jewish Passover week; so our Easter still comes just after the Passover. This is why Easter does not always come on the same day of the month.

For the children of Israel the Passover marked their deliverance not only from the tenth plague but also from their bondage in Egypt, for they started on their journey that very night. The Egyptians were so glad to see them go that they willingly gave them jewels of silver and gold, and raiment. The word translated "borrow" (in KJV) really means "ask" (as it is translated in RSV). The things were presents — not merely loans. Many of them were later used in carrying out the Lord's instructions for the building of the tabernacle.

How many children of Israel were there when they left Egypt?

Look up Genesis 46:26-27. This shows us how the children uf Israel had increased in Egypt. Verse 40 of our chapter says that they had been in Egypt for four hundred and thirty years, but this is counting from the time when Abraham first went down to Egypt because of the famine. It was actually about two hundred and fifteen years from the time when Jacob and his family came into Egypt to live until the time of the Passover.

We must study this story of the Passover with special care, for we shall be reminded of it many times in the Bible, even in the New Testament. The Jews still celebrate the Passover every year, although not in exactly the original way. Do you know why we Christians do not celebrate it? It is because the Lord, when He was on earth, gave us a new feast to take its place. That feast is the Lord's Supper or the Holy Communion. The Lord instituted it when He was partaking of the Passover feast with His disciples for the last time. In the book of Revelation the Lord is called "the Lamb that was slain." The Jews celebrate the Passover to commemorate their deliverance from Egypt. We celebrate the Lord's Supper to commemorate our deliverance from the power of the hells as a result of the Lord's life on earth.

