
=== Notes for Parents

The word exodus means "a going out," and the book of Exodus is the story of how the children of Israel, after more than two hundred years in Egypt, were led out by Moses and back through the wilderness to their true home in the land of Canaan, the Holy Land.

The Israelites came into Egypt to be nourished and protected by Joseph through the years of famine. Egypt, because of its steady climate, was the great storehouse of the ancient world, to which people went to buy food when drought and famine struck other places. It pictures the world's store of knowledge, to which we must go when we realize that we do not know enough to take our next step in life. Sometimes it is knowledge of the natural world which we need, but there is another kind of knowledge in the storehouse: knowledge of the Bible and of the teachings of our church. Knowledge, however — all knowledge — is meant for use in the service of the Lord and the neighbor. When we forget this and become absorbed in learning for its own sake or for the sake of self-advancement, we are like the Israelites who stayed on in Egypt after Joseph died. Joseph pictures our higher spiritual perceptions. Without these we become slaves in Egypt just as the Israelites did. Life becomes hard and burdensome.

Moses was raised up to lead the children of Israel out of slavery.

Moses, through whom a little later the ten commandments were given, represents divine law. This law shows up all of the false thoughts and the evil desires of selfish and worldly living but, if obeyed, it leads to heaven all who wish to be good people.

The Israelites were commanded to celebrate a great feast on the eve of their leaving Egypt. It was called the feast of the Passover because when the blood of the lamb killed for the feast was sprinkled on the doorposts and lintel of their houses, it became a sign which enabled the "angel of death" to pass over them when the firstborn of the Egyptians were killed. The Israelites were commanded for the future to keep this feast regularly as a memorial of their deliverance from Egypt. They keep it to this day.

It was at the feast of the Passover in Jerusalem just before the Lord was betrayed that He instituted the feast of the Holy Supper which takes the place of the Passover in the Christian Church. The Lord is called the "Paschal Lamb," and we celebrate the Holy Supper in remembrance of Him and in acknowledgment of the fact that He came into the world to save us and that, if we follow and obey Him, He will lead us out of bondage to sin, and on to our true home in heaven.

