
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The meaning of the change in the condition of the Israelites because they prolonged their stay in Egypt is important for the Senior age, as well as the necessity for the plagues and the meaning of the details of the Passover feast, especially as carried over into our celebration of the Holy Supper.

---
Today our lesson is again from the second book in the Bible.

The word exodus means "a going out," and the book of Exodus is the story of how the prediction made by Joseph in Genesis 50:24 was finally fulfilled some two hundred years later. Verse 40 of our chapter says the "sojourning of the children of Israel" in Egypt was four hundred and thirty years, but this is counting from the time when Abraham first came down into Egypt because of the famine.

The picture has changed. We are told in Genesis 46:26-27 that the number of souls belonging to Jacob at the time of his coming into Egypt was seventy, and verse 37 of our chapter for today says that six hundred thousand men went out on the night of the Passover, besides children. This great increase had frightened the Egyptians into making slaves of the Hebrews so that their life in Egypt was no longer a happy one.

In the Bible narrative, any stay in Egypt represents a period of acquiring memory-knowledges. To save our spiritual lives we have to acquire memory-knowledges of the letter of the Word and of the doctrines drawn from its internal sense. But all knowledge is meant for use in the service of the Lord and the neighbor. As fast as we acquire new knowledge, we should try to put it to use. The Israelites should have gone back to their own home in Canaan as soon as the famine was over. When we continue to study and learn without applying our knowledge to its proper use, we become "slaves in Egypt." We are no longer protected by Joseph — our spiritual perceptions — and, like the Israelites, we have forgotten the name of our God — the qualities which the Lord exemplified in His life on earth.

Then the Lord has to arouse us by showing us the terrible results of worldliness and godlessness. These are the plagues brought upon the Egyptians, culminating in the destruction of the firstborn.

The firstborn is the symbol of faith. When anyone, like Pharaoh, stubbornly persists in a worldly and evil course, in spite of repeated experiences of the bad effects of such a course, he finally comes into a state in which the very possibility of faith is destroyed. Then all the things of spiritual life — represented by the Israelites - are driven out, taking with them everything that is of value in the learning which has been acquired. This is the plague from the point of view of Pharaoh.

But we are going with the Israelites. They had been spared all the plagues, but they had seen the terrible havoc they had wrought in the lives of the Egyptians, and were ready now to follow Moses out of Egypt. Moses represents divine law. To escape the last plague they had to do something themselves, both as a sign of their willingness to obey the Lord and in recognition of their deliverance.

The lamb of the Passover represents the affection of innocence.

What this is you will see from the first quotation at the end of this lesson. The blood of the lamb symbolizes the true thoughts which spring from that affection. The doorposts of the house stand for the portals of the mind. The sprinkling of the blood there pictures the safeguarding of the mind from falsity by means of true thoughts springing from pure affection. When the lamb was eaten, it was to be "roast with fire," not raw or "sodden with water" (boiled), because good must be loved, not merely acknowledged without interest or enjoyed as a mental concept. The unleavened bread pictures principles of goodness unmixed with the old false ideas, for leaven (yeast) in those days was a bit of sour dough from former bakings. The bitter herbs typify temptations which we must be willing to meet and overcome if we are to attain spiritual life. Finally, we are to eat the feast with our loins girded ready for the journey: we must be prepared to start out actively to carry the new principles we have accepted into our daily living — we cannot put off "turning over a new leaf" from day to day. We are also to take with us into the new life all that is of value from the Egyptian state, all our knowledges of worldly as well as of spiritual things, the jewels of silver and gold, and the raiment. Recall that Abraham also came up out of Egypt "rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold."

Just before the Lord's crucifixion He celebrated the Passover with His disciples — the Last Supper, as it is called. At that feast He instituted a new feast to take the place of the Passover for all His disciples, and thus for the Christian Church. This is the Lord's Supper or Holy Communion. In the Lord's Supper the bread and wine take the place of the unleavened bread and the flesh of the lamb, and the Holy Supper commemorates our deliverance by the Lord from bondage to the hells. So in this particular case, as in all others, the Lord came to "fulfill" the Law and the Prophets.

