
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The details of this vision of the waters are for the most part correspondences with which the Intermediates are already familiar. The teacher would do well, therefore, to see how far the class itself can go with the interpretation before beginning his own instruction. This lesson is a striking story in the letter and a powerful one in its spiritual sense.

---
Of the four Major Prophets, the first two lived in the kingdom of Judah. Isaiah, as you may remember, was the prophet through whom the Lord spoke to king Hezekiah. Jeremiah lived in the last days of Judah, prophesied its end, and saw his prophecies fulfilled. He was among those allowed by the king of Babylon to remain in their homes, and he continued to prophesy, but later was taken to Egypt against his will by some of the people who were afraid to stay in their own land. His last prophecies and perhaps the five poems which make up the book of Lamentations were given him in Egypt. Ezekiel and Daniel were both carried away with the captives to Babylon and prophesied in captivity. The ancient Hebrews, believing that prophetic inspiration could be given only in the Holy Land, never included either Lamentations or Daniel in their Scripture canon, but they did accept the book of Ezekiel, perhaps because Ezekiel was already a priest when he was taken captive and because he was carried in the spirit to Jerusalem.

One of Ezekiel's visions of Jerusalem is the subject of our lesson for today. Ezekiel began to prophesy five years after the beginning of the captivity. Our lesson is part of his last vision, given him in the twenty-fifth year of the captivity. In it he was carried into the land of Israel and set upon a very high mountain by or upon which "was as the frame of a city on the south." There a man came to him "whose appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax in his hand, and a measuring reed." This man took him through the temple, measuring every part of it. The description of it is given in chapters 40-46, and this description has been found to fit well with the more general description of Solomon's temple found in 2 Kings. Then follows the vision of the waters in chapter 47.

Many parts of the books of the Prophets are hard for us to understand without a great deal of careful study, but this vision is both beautiful in its letter and very clear in its meaning, since it contains so many correspondences already familiar to us. Water, we know, is the symbol of truth, and the waters flowing from beside the altar in the temple are truth from the Lord, or the Word. See how every little detail in the letter of the Word is important: the waters flowed from the right side of the altar and the right side always pictures the side of love or affection — the Word is given us by the Lord in love for us; the right side is also said to be the south side, the temple facing east, because the south corresponds to spiritual intelligence, and the Word is given us to bring us a knowledge of God and spiritual things. But then Ezekiel was brought outside of the temple and brought about northward — the north is spiritual obscurity — until he came to the "utter" gate by the way "that looketh eastward." Isn't this just what happens to all of us? When we are little children, we are told and we at once believe that the Bible is the Lord's Word and that the Lord loves us and wants us to learn about Him. Then we go to school and become absorbed in learning about the world and in our work and play, and often our first belief becomes dim and we are not so interested in Sunday school. But if we keep going, we come back after a while to a point where we begin again to want knowledge of the Lord - the "utter gate by the way that looketh eastward," for the east always represents where the Lord is — and there are the waters flowing out again on the right side.

Then when we really begin to study the Word — to follow the waters — they become deeper and deeper. In the Word we often find the numbers ten, a hundred, a thousand, ten thousand, and even ten thousand times ten thousand. They all picture "fullness of state." That means the time when we have passed through a certain stage — like our "teens," for example — and are all ready for the next. So each thousand cubits brings us to a new and deeper understanding of the Word. At first we see what the literal sense teaches us about what we should and should not do in this world; that is like the waters to the ankles. Later we find that it has a spiritual sense which teaches us about our souls and how we should think and feel; this is the waters to the knees. Then we begin to see a little of the celestial sense, which tells us how the Lord thought and felt when He was in the world, and as we see His great love for us, we begin to feel true love for Him and the desire to serve Him in all things; this is the water to the loins. Finally we realize that there is no end to what we can learn from the Word. We can go on studying it forever: "waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed over."

It is easy to see, too, why the banks of the river were lined with fruit trees "whose leaf shall not fade, neither shall the fruit be consumed." We may remember from the Creation story that fruit trees picture true principles by means of which we can do genuinely good works, deeds which are spiritually living because the Lord's unselfish love is in them. As the river of truth must come from the Lord, so all good works must come from Him because He alone is good and truth. Also, fish in a good sense represent affections for natural knowledges for the sake of use. So when we love to study the letter of the Word for the sake of knowing better how to serve the Lord, we are like the fishermen standing on the banks of the river casting their nets and drawing in fish, "exceeding many."

It is because the Word comes from the Lord and has within it His love and wisdom that it is said that "everything that liveth, which moveth, whithersoever the rivers shall come, shall live." Our life does not come from ourselves but from the Lord, and any part of us which we try to hold back from the Lord's guidance is like the "miry places" and marshes "given to salt" because in those things we have no desire to do as truth teaches.

Finally, here is something for you to think out for yourself:

Remembering that a tree pictures a principle and its leaves thoughts coming from that principle, why is the leaf of the trees by the river said to be "for healing"?

