
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This lesson, like the one on Psalm 91, is a good one in which to introduce the Older Children to the thought of the presence of the spiritual sense in every detail of the letter of the Word.

---
Who finally conquered Judah?

What happened to the people?

The second of the Major Prophets, Jeremiah, lived through the period of the fall of Judah. He had warned the people of what would happen to them if they continued in their evil ways, and he had advised them to submit and pay tribute to Babylon so that they might be allowed to stay in their own land. For this reason, when the people were carried away, the king of Babylon allowed Jeremiah to remain in his own home along with the "poor" who were to take care of the fields and vineyards. Jeremiah continued to prophesy, and he urged the remaining people to stay quietly at home and wait for the Lord to deliver them. But the people were afraid, and a group of them decided to flee into Egypt. They took Jeremiah with them against his will and he is thought to have died in Egypt. The last part of the book of Jeremiah and the book of Lamentations were written in Egypt.

Ezekiel and Daniel were among those carried away captive into Babylon. Our next lesson will be about Daniel. From the first few verses of the book of Ezekiel we learn that Ezekiel was a priest and that he began to prophesy in the fifth year of the captivity. He was given many wonderful visions and was shown the fate of other nations beside his own. And he was allowed to tell the captives that the faithful among them would someday be permitted to return to their own land. He himself apparently did not live to see the return, but this is not surprising, as he was grown up when he was taken to Babylon and the captivity lasted seventy years.

Our lesson today is a part of Ezekiel's last vision, which was given him in the twenty-fifth year of the captivity. He was taken in the spirit to Jerusalem. Jerusalem and the temple had been destroyed, but Ezekiel was allowed to see a vision of the temple still standing just as he must have remembered it. An angel was sent to show him through the temple. Read about him in Ezekiel 40:3. As they went, the angel measured everything. We find that Ezekiel's vision fits exactly with the description of the temple when Solomon built it, and adds many important details. After everything was measured, the angel brought him to the door of the temple, which was toward the east. The tabernacle, too, had always been set up with the entrance toward the east.

What did Ezekiel see coming out from under the threshold?

From which side of the altar did the waters come?

How deep were the waters after the first thousand cubits?

How deep were they after the second thousand?

How deep were they after the third thousand?

How deep did they finally become?

What grew on the banks of the river?

What happened to everything to which the river came?

Who stood on the banks of the river?

How long would the fruit and leaves of the trees last?

What was the fruit said to be for?

What were the leaves for?

What happened to the places to which the river could not come?

When you are older, you will understand some of the wonderful lessons which this vision of Ezekiel teaches us, but you are old enough now to know that the river is a picture of the Word. The Word comes to us from the Lord, just as the river seemed to flow from the altar in the temple. At first we understand only the outside meaning of the Word — pictured by the water up to the ankles. But as we grow older and keep studying it, its meaning is seen to go deeper and deeper, until finally we realize that no one can ever exhaust it. We can study it forever and always learn more and more. The fishermen on the banks are like us when we are drawing truths to live by out of the Word. The trees are like the great principles we learn from it which lead us to do good; the fruit is the good we do. And their leaves are the thoughts which come from these principles, which show us our faults and how to correct them. They can make our souls healthy, just as medicine can cure our bodies. The only part of our souls which the Word cannot make alive and well is the part we are not willing to change. The selfish feelings and thoughts which we love so much that we cling to them even when we know they are wrong are the swamps and salt marshes.

If you can read this story in the Word and see this deeper meaning in it, perhaps you have reached the point where the waters are to the knees.

