
=== Notes for Parents

This lesson is also on the "Major Prophets," with a particular passage in Ezekiel as a center of our thought. There are, we recall, four Major Prophets: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. They are called Major only because their books are much longer than those of the twelve Minor Prophets, which follow them in our Bible. Isaiah lived in Judah in the time of king Hezekiah. Jeremiah also lived in Judah and began to prophesy not long before Judah was captured by Babylon. He witnessed the fall of Judah and the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple, but was not himself carried to Babylon, and he continued to prophesy to the people who were left. Ezekiel and Daniel were both among those carried away to Babylon, and began to prophesy in captivity.

The story we are reading in Ezekiel 47:1-12 is part of a long vision Ezekiel had in the twenty-fifth year of the captivity — his last vision. In the vision he was taken back to the Holy Land and was led all through the temple by an angel who measured everything as they went. Then he was given a vision of a river coming out of the temple. The account of this river is very striking and it has a beautiful meaning for us. For the river is divine truth as it comes down to us from the Lord in His Word. If we are to understand the Bible at all, we must first see that the Lord speaks to us through it. Then we can study it and learn more and more of its meaning, and at last we shall come to realize that it can never be exhausted. There will always be more there for us to find. So in Ezekiel's vision the waters became deeper and deeper as he went on. And everywhere the river came it brought life and healing except to the "miry places" and marshes. The only things in our lives which the Lord cannot make pure and whole by means of the Word are those evils and weaknesses which we cling to and do not want to recognize or correct. When we study the Word and let it show us our faults so that we can fight against and overcome them, the Word brings us life and happiness and peace.

The river that Ezekiel saw is the same river that watered the Garden of Eden and the same river that John saw in Revelation, "a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb." And you remember what the Psalmist writes: "There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High."

