
=== Primary

Even with the youngest children this lesson may be taught as a parable about the Bible. As a parable it is simple and clear, and young children's perceptions are sometimes very keen. Follow the outline suggested, trying to impress upon the minds of the children the details of Ezekiel's vision.

---
After Josiah died, the kingdom of Judah was conquered by Babylon, Jerusalem and the temple were destroyed, and all the people were carried away into captivity in Babylon except some of the poor people who were left to take care of the fields and vineyards.

While they were in captivity, two great prophets were raised up among them. One of these was Ezekiel, a priest. He was given many strange visions which showed him the Lord's power and how important it is to worship the Lord and to study what He teaches us in His Word.

The other Major Prophets were Isaiah, Jeremiah, and Daniel. Isaiah lived in Judah in the time of Hezekiah.

Do you remember what finally happened to Judah? Jeremiah lived through the time of Judah's fall.

He was not carried away to Babylon but later was taken to Egypt and died there.

Ezekiel and Daniel were both among those who were carried away to Babylon. Their prophecies were given to them there.

Ezekiel had many strange visions.

In one of Ezekiel's visions he was taken back to Jerusalem and shown the temple just as it had been before it was destroyed. Then he was shown something else.

Outside of the temple he saw something new.

What did he see coming out from under the eastern entrance?

What did the angel with him have in his hand?

How deep were the waters after the first thousand cubits?

How deep were they after the second?

How deep were they after the third?

Then how deep did they become?

What were growing on either side of the river?

What were found in the waters?

What happened to everything to which the waters came?

What happened to the places to which the waters could not bring life?

The wonderful river which Ezekiel saw in his vision was not the kind of river which we can see with our eyes in this world. It was a picture of how the Lord teaches us in His Word. At first we have only a very little understanding of what the Lord is saying to us as we read the Word. This is like the shallow water at the beginning. But if we go on studying it and trying to live as the Lord wants us to live, we get more and more understanding, and finally we become wise enough to know that we can go on studying the Word forever and always learn more and more. So the waters of the river became deep enough to swim in.

Then Ezekiel was allowed to see how everything came to life where the river flowed, just as our lives become happy and useful when we live as the Lord teaches us in His Word.

