
=== Senior

This is an opportunity to impress upon the young people the fact that it is only as we see the world as the Lord's creation and the Bible as the Lord's Word to men that we can come to any true understanding of life or use our talents and knowledges as they are meant to be used in the service of the Lord and the neighbor.

We call Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel the Major Prophets not because they are relatively more important than the twelve Minor Prophets, but simply because the books are much longer. Isaiah prophesied in Judah in the days of Hezekiah and the three kings who preceded him. Jeremiah lived to witness the captivity but was not carried to Babylon. Ezekiel and Daniel prophesied in captivity.

Ezekiel's prophecies, by his own testimony, were given over a period of twenty years, from the fifth to the twenty-fifth year of the captivity. The last one, from which our lesson is taken, is recorded in chapters 40 to 48. In this vision he was taken back to the Holy Land and conducted through the temple by an angel who carried a line of flax and a measuring reed and measured everything as they went. The measurements tally with those given in the less detailed description of Solomon's temple in 2 Kings. Through chapter 46 we might think that Ezekiel was having a dream of something which had been very familiar to him, for he was one of the priests (Ezekiel 1:3).

But in chapter 47 something enters the picture which Ezekiel had never seen in the days before the captivity. The waters proceeding from under the threshold of the house eastward, which were seen to come from the right side of the house at the south side of the altar, picture divine truth given us by the Lord in love. We receive this truth through the Word; so we think of the river of Ezekiel's vision as the Word. It is this truth in the Word by means of which we have spiritual life.

Our reception of truth in the Word, however, depends first on our acknowledgment that the Word is from the Lord and secondly upon the preparation we make for understanding it through our study and through the use we make of it in our lives. You notice that there were some places — the "miry places" and marshes — to which the river did not bring life, but which were to be "given to salt." Salt in a good sense represents the element which unites truth to goodness, the desire to live as truth teaches; in a bad sense it represents the lack of this desire. That was why Lot's wife, when she looked back toward the wicked city of Sodom, was turned into a pillar of salt. In our lives there are always some selfish feelings and thoughts which we are unwilling to give up even though we know they are wrong. These are our "salt marshes," to which the river cannot bring life. We can receive only as much truth as we are willing to use.

The river of truth in the Word deepens as we progress in regeneration, and enables us to do more and more good. The trees by the river bank brought forth fruit which never failed and leaves which did not fade. The leaves are the thoughts which grow out of the principles we establish in our lives as we progress in spiritual intelligence. And the leaves were for healing. It is by means of these thoughts that we can see and correct the faults and weaknesses which are the diseases of the soul.

One thing more the river does for us. It makes all the natural knowledges in our minds living and useful. We have only to stand on the banks and fish them out. The man who sees clearly that all good and truth come from the Lord and nothing from himself, and who studies the Word to see what the Lord is saying to him in it so that he may direct his life rightly is never misled by appearances or frustrated by disappointments, but lives a full, happy, useful life whatever his outward circumstances may be.

