
=== Intermediate

Center the lesson on the correspondences in the miracle itself, and be sure the meaning of the miracle is clear before you go on to the other lessons of the chapter. Point out that the crucial difference between the blind man and the Pharisees was in the matter of willingness to accept the Lord.

The Gospel of John contains the account of only eight miracles of the Lord as against more than twice as many in each of the other Gospels. But only two of the eight — the feeding of the five thousand and the Lord's walking on the sea — are found in any of the other Gospels. And, as we should expect, the six which are unique with John are of deep importance. We are studying four of them.

The one we have for today gives us many things to think about.

Even people who know nothing of the heavenly doctrines know that blindness pictures ignorance, because the word is so used in our common speech. When something happens unexpectedly which we immediately realize we ought to have foreseen, we say: "How blind I have been!" The man in our chapter had been blind from his birth; that is, his condition pictures ignorance which comes from the circumstances in which we are born and brought up. We can easily see that people brought up, for instance, in the interior of Australia might never even have heard of the Lord or the Word. But we do not have to go so far from home as that. There are people all around us who are ignorant of the Word because no one has ever tried to teach them, and there are many more who are blind to its real meaning because they have been brought up in false ideas of it. This was true of the people of the Lord's time.

When we read that the Lord "saw" anyone, we know that it means not just that He saw the person sitting there before Him, but that He saw all that was in his heart. The heart of this blind beggar was humble and good, and his mind contained some knowledge of the letter of the Word although, because he had been taught false ideas about it, he was blind to its real meaning. The ground upon which he sat pictures the church in man's heart, the goodness in a person founded on belief in the letter of the Scriptures as coming from God, whatever its meaning might be. The saliva which proceeded from the Lord's own mouth represents genuine truth from the letter of the Word, and the clay which was formed out of soil by means of it represents goodness in the man's heart reshaped by this bit of genuine truth. When this was applied to the man's eyes, he was told to go and wash in the pool of Siloam. A pool represents truth gathered in the memory. When he washed, he came seeing.

What does this mean in actual life? Let us think of a person brought up with a knowledge of the Bible but with false ideas of its meaning. He is a good person and tries to live as well as he knows how, in spite of his ignorance. Then one day something comes to him which he immediately feels to be new and really true. It may be something said to him by a friend (each of us can be this kind of missionary) or it may be a new thought growing out of something that has happened. He goes to his Bible to see if this new thought will help him to understand things there which have been dark to him, and he finds that he suddenly sees what they mean.

This is the meaning of the miracle itself. But there are many other lessons connected with it in our chapter. The question asked by the disciples in John 9:2 is a very common question in people's minds. Are sickness, handicaps of various sorts, and misfortunes punishments for sin in the person who suffers or in others close to him? We know, of course, that some sicknesses and reverses are directly due to our own misdeeds; we can almost always recognize the source of these. But the Lord says this is by no means true of all our trials. In the case of the person who is doing wrong, the Lord often has to permit his wrongdoing to result in unpleasant consequences in order to stop him short and make him think about the nature of what he is doing. And in the case of a good person, trials of various sorts are permitted to come when the Lord sees that meeting them will strengthen and deepen his character. Few of us can stand uninterrupted good fortune without becoming lazy and self-satisfied. In either case it is true that affliction is sometimes permitted to come to a person "that the works of God should be made manifest in him."

The way in which the man's neighbors received the miracle shows us the difference in people. Some believed it and some did not. No one is ever convinced by a miracle against his will. And the rest of the chapter tells us — through the dealings of the Pharisees with the man — to what lengths a person who is selfish and satisfied with himself will go to discredit facts which do not agree with his own opinions and way of life. Keep this chapter in mind, for as you grow older you will find it illustrated again and again in the arguments and conduct of those who do not want to believe in the Lord. They completely brush aside the experience of the thousands whom the Lord has enabled to see, finally calling them fools and refusing to associate with them.

But fortunately those who have once recognized the Lord and come to see Him as the Word made flesh have reached a security and a firm standing ground which cannot be shaken. And truth is the final judge. Those who acknowledge their own ignorance and look to the Lord for light receive more and more from Him, but those who reject the Lord and consider themselves wise really become blind, and their blindness is their own doing. This is what is meant by the last three verses of our chapter. The Pharisees condemned themselves. Read John 3:18-21.

