
=== Notes for Parents

You know that there are some Christian churches whose doctrines teach that because Adam sinned, all his descendants are born sinners and will go to hell unless their sin is removed by baptism, and some churches also teach that all sickness and misfortune is inflicted upon man by the Lord as a punishment for sin. But this is not at all what Christ Himself taught.

Our chapter for today answers our natural questions about why apparently good people should have afflictions to bear. The Lord here tells us that it is in order that "the works of God should be made manifest" in them, and in John 6:29 He tells us what the works of God are: "This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent." Read the story of the blind man in our chapter for today and you will see how this came true for him.

There is a much more serious kind of blindness than physical blindness. Even though a good person may have to go through this earthly life without seeing the beauties of nature or the faces of loved ones, we can be sure that as soon as such a person puts off the physical body, he will be able to see, because his soul has always been able to see. Our souls see when we understand and accept the truth. We say to a naughty child, "Can't you see how much happier you would be if you would only try to be good?" And the only reason the child does not see it is because he does not want to. This is the lesson which the conduct of the Pharisees in our chapter teaches us. They refused to see the truth because it was contrary to their selfish pride and ambition.

But the blind man was humble and anxious to know what was right so that he could do it. When we read that the Lord saw him, we know that He saw his heart and his thoughts. So the Lord could give him sight. He did give him physical sight, but He gave him the more important sight also. See how the man's understanding of the Lord grew as he was led to think about his experience. First he knew Him only as "a man that is called Jesus"; then as he had to answer the questions of the Pharisees, he came to see that He must be a prophet, and then that such power could come only from God; and finally he was ready to see that Jesus was actually the Son of God, the promised Messiah who was God Himself in the flesh, and worshiped Him. The Lord must rise in this way in our minds if the works of God are to be made manifest in us. Outward affliction may be the means of bringing us in touch with the Lord, because it can make us humble and eager for the help which He always stands ready to give to those who will trust in Him. Affliction is not a punishment for sin, and neither does the Lord hold anyone responsible for ignorance for which he is not to blame.

