
=== Notes for Parents

You have read the stories of the remarkable experiences the children of Israel had during their first two months in the wilderness. Through these experiences they were shown that the Lord was really with them, and they must have begun to realize that they had a special mission to perform, since they were so miraculously protected and provided for. For various reasons, the Lord had chosen them as the nation through whom the Word could best be written in order that it might reach men in all stages of spiritual development. They were a very literal—minded people and very much interested in their own prosperity. Through fear of punishment and hope of reward they could be led to carry out all the elaborate rituals and to observe all the detailed laws which the Lord wanted recorded in His Word. In their letter these laws were for their nation, which was to be a "theocracy," a nation governed by religious laws; but every one of the directions given to them has an inner meaning which applies to the spiritual life of every one of us, even though most of the outward rules are no longer necessary to our life. Even the ten commandments, which - unlike some of the other laws — will never be out—of—date in their letter, have also deep meanings within them, and the further we go in our efforts to lead a good life the more we see and keep of this inner meaning.

The Lord gave the nation their laws while they were camped on the plain at the foot of Mount Sinai. Moses was called up into the mountain to receive them. The most important of them, aside from the ten commandments, were the directions for the construction, furnishing, and care of the tabernacle, their tent of worship. And the most important article of furniture in the tabernacle was the ark, in which the two tables of stone inscribed with the ten commandments were to be kept. Several times in the Bible we read that the commandments are to be written on our hearts. This means that if we keep them faithfully, we shall in time come to love to keep them. The state of loving to keep the commandments is heaven. We can easily see this if we think what a wonderful place the world would be if none of us ever wanted to hurt anyone else in any way. There would be no poverty, no hunger, no crime, no war. We know that the world is not like that now. What we do not always realize is that each one of us could help to bring heaven on earth by trying to feel and think and act every day in the spirit of love to the Lord and the neighbor. This is what we mean when we say in the Lord's Prayer, "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven."

