
=== Junior

First cover briefly the position of the book of Psalms in the Word, the origin of the Psalms and their use in Hebrew worship, and the general character and purpose of the Psalms. Then take up the first Psalm verse by verse, explaining especially the meaning of the three prohibitions in the first verse. You will find these discussed in the Senior notes. Adapt your illustrations, however, to the experience of the Juniors.

Today we are taking up a book which is a book of the Word but which in its letter is neither history nor prophecy. The strictly historical books of the Word in the Old Testament (those with an inner sense) end with 2 Kings, and the strictly prophetical books begin with Isaiah. In between these in our Bible are ten books, only one of which has an inner sense. The other nine, like the book of Ruth, give us interesting pictures of the life of the times and some valuable historical details, but they are not part of the Word for the New Church.

The book of Psalms is sometimes called the book of David because the Lord gave so many of the Psalms through David.

Who was David?

How do we know that he did not make up the Psalms?

What is a psalm?

How many Psalms are there?

In the original Hebrew the Psalms are poems. In English they do not appear to be poetry, but they are meant to be sung and can be sung in chant form if we wish to sing them in church. They have always formed an important part of Jewish worship. They were sung in Solomon's temple by trained choirs to the accompaniment of various instruments. Several of these instruments are mentioned in Psalm 150.

The Psalms are given us by the Lord to help us express the feelings and thoughts we ought to have, and often do have, about Him and about our relations to Him. That is why people have always loved them and found help in them. We know that we all like to express our feelings, but we also know that many of our feelings from day to day are selfish and wrong, and these often "come out" when we do not really mean to show them. So it is especially good for us to read and sing the Psalms and try to bring our feelings into the pattern which they give us.

The very first Psalm gives us the basis for this pattern. Remember that blessed means "happy." We all know that sometimes things which we think are going to make us happy actually do just the opposite. So we need to listen to this teaching from the Lord. He really knows.

What is the first thing He tells us we must not do if we want to be happy?

What is the second?

What is the third?

What must we do instead?

To what does the Lord liken us if we take His advice?

What does He say the ungodly are like?

The last two verses tell us plainly that we cannot be happy if we do not try to learn about the Lord and live the kind of life He tells us is right. Can you see that the whole history of the Israelites as we have been studying it in the Word teaches us this same lesson?

