
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: Who was the second of the three great kings before the division of the land? David

Junior: What special talent did David have? musician and poet

Primary: What book of the Bible was written in part through David? Psalms

Junior: What did David say about what he wrote? it was the Word of the Lord

Primary: What is a psalm? a song

Primary: How did the Jews use the Psalms? hymns

Intermediate: What did the Lord tell His disciples about them? they were about Him

Junior: Can you repeat the first Psalm? "Blessed is the man ... "

Primary: What does blessed mean? happy

Junior: What three things are we told not to do if we want to be happy? walk with ungodly, stand with sinners, sit with scornful

Junior: What are we told to do? delight in the law of the Lord

Primary: To what is a good man likened in the first Psalm? a tree

Primary: To what is an ungodly man likened? chaff

Intermediate: What does the Lord do for us in the Psalms? expresses our spiritual states and needs

Senior: How does the first Psalm set the pattern for the whole book? If we wish to be happy we should delight in the law of the Lord, and meditate daily on the Word.

== THE BOOK OF PSALMS — Psalm 19

The teacher should read carefully the quotation from Our Heavenly Father's Book which forms the major part of the Adult notes. This gives a general background of information in regard to the book of Psalms as a whole, from which he may draw such facts as he thinks will interest his class. The point which should be stressed in all the classes is that the Psalms are songs inspired by the Lord to direct the expression of our feeling and thought about Him and our relation to Him. It will also be helpful to our church services if the older children, young people, and adults can be impressed with the rightness and power of singing the Psalms and the value of learning the chant form, which is the only way in which they can be sung without doing violence to the letter.

