
=== Intermediate

A few basic correspondences have been given, but this lesson must be mainly taken up by the effort to explain how the Lord was the "Word made flesh." This is one of our best opportunities to give the young people the doctrine of the Lord. Encourage questions from the class.

---
We are now studying the life of the Lord as it is recorded in the Gospel of John. We remember that John was one of the first four disciples called by the Lord and one of the three who were allowed to witness the transfiguration of the Lord and who were often singled out from the others for special instruction. The twelve apostles represent all the faculties in us which are called to follow the Lord and meant to be used in the Lord's service. The three most important — Peter, James, and John — represent faith, charity, and the works of charity. John is also said to represent the "good of charity." He was called "the beloved disciple," and in his old age was given the wonderful visions recorded in the book of Revelation.

We know that the Word of God was given through many men and took its literal form from the states of mind and heart in which those men were. John was of a different character from the other disciples, and his Gospel is very different from the other three. We shall find that it contains no declared parables and few miracles in comparison with the others, and that it is mainly concerned with the Lord's ministry in Judea and His instructions to the apostles during the last week of His earthly life.

The difference between John's Gospel and the others appears very clearly in our chapter for today. The first fourteen verses are an account of the Lord's coming into the world, but they tell us nothing about Bethlehem, about Joseph and Mary, or about the shepherds and the Wise Men. Instead we are given teaching concerning the real nature and purpose of the Incarnation. The Lord came as the Word made flesh to be the light of the world. In the New Church we regularly call the inspired Scriptures "the Word." We need to understand why we do this. The practice grows naturally out of the frequent statement in the Prophets, "The word of the Lord came unto me, saying," and out of this chapter of John, but of course there is a reason why this form of expression appears in these places. We are all of us constantly using words, because they are our means of expressing ourselves to others. We are in our words. Likewise the Word is the Lord's expression of Himself to men, and He is in His Word as we are in ours. Every word we speak is an outward form of truth — or falsity. The written Word is an outward form of divine truth. It is our only means of learning what divine truth is and so of knowing the Lord.

The ancient Hebrews alone had the Old Testament Scriptures, and they had been told from time to time to teach them to the Gentiles. [E.g., Psalm 96:3.] But as we have learned in our lessons about Jonah, they despised the Gentiles and preferred to keep the Scriptures for themselves. In the hundreds of years which followed the return from captivity, this selfish arrogance had grown out of all bounds. There were still good people, humble and desirous of learning the truth and obeying it, but most of the people could not read and their teachers, the scribes and Pharisees, had so overlaid the Scriptures with additional laws and regulations of their own that the people did not know what was Scripture and what was not. The Lord shows this when He says to the scribes and Pharisees (Matthew 15:6): "Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition." So the Lord could no longer reach men through the written Word and He had to give the world His truth in a new form, by clothing Himself with a human body and so living among men and showing them the true way of life: "the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us." The Lord came not to destroy the Old Testament Scriptures, but to fulfill them. He came as the Word, the divine truth, which was in the beginning with God and was God.

"He came unto his own, and his own received him not." Those who had the written Word were the ones who rejected the Lord, because they did not want to know what it really taught. But there were a few who did want to know and so received Him. John the Baptist was one of these, and he bore witness fearlessly to the fact that Jesus was the promised Messiah, the "Son of God," which is another expression meaning the divine truth. The sign of the dove which was given to John the Baptist pictures "the Holy of faith," the truths and goods of faith which were all in the Lord.

The rest of our chapter tells of the calling of the first disciples, again in a little different way from the other Gospels. Nathanael does not appear by that name in the lists of the twelve apostles, but it is generally believed that Nathanael was the given name of Bartholomew (which means "the son of Tolmai") who appears after Philip in all the lists. He would be called Nathanael Bartholomew, just as Peter is called by the Lord in one place (Matthew 16:17) Simon Bar-jona, or Simon, son of Jonas. In John 21:15 the same Greek words are translated "Simon, son of Jonas." We notice that Nathanael was called as he sat under a fig tree. Figs represent goods on the natural plane, which gives us an idea of Nathanael's character. We should remember, as we read this account, that the Lord is saying to all of us, "Come and see," and, "Follow me," just as He said to these men of Galilee long ago.

