
=== Junior

The Juniors are old enough to be given some explanation of this chapter, and an effort has been made in their notes to bring it within their mental reach, even though the ideas are in themselves abstract. Be sure the class looks up all the Bible references in their notes. It is a good exercise for them and will also help their understanding of the lesson.

---
With today's lesson we begin studying the Gospel of John. John was the brother of James and one of the first four disciples called by the Lord, to follow Him. He was called "the beloved disciple," because he was always close to the Lord. He was also the one who in his old age was given the wonderful visions recorded in the book of Revelation.

The first chapter of John treats of the Lord's birth into the world, but in a very different way from the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, from which our Christmas lessons are always taken. You know that in the New Church we usually speak of the inspired books of the Bible as "the Word," and many other people use the expression "the Word of God" in connection with it. Have you ever wondered why this is so? We all use a great many words every day. Our words are our means of letting other people know what we are thinking and feeling. So really we are within our words. The Lord spoke the Word by means of His prophets. It is divine truth in a form adapted to our understanding. Within it is the Lord Himself. That is why we always have the Word on the altar in the very center of the chancel in our churches, and why the minister opens it at the beginning of the service and closes it at the end. We think of it as the Lord's presence with us.

We know that God is love — perfect, unselfish love — but we know also that He is Wisdom — perfect wisdom. That is why the first verse of our chapter says that the Word was in the beginning, that it was with God, and that it was God. It was divine wisdom or truth which was given to the world in the Word. It was divine wisdom which created everything. But within everything divine wisdom does is divine love. If we think a little, we can understand this from our own experience. Whenever you make something, it is your knowledge which plans it and which directs your hands in making it, but behind your knowledge is the desire you have to make it. When John says, "And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us," he is telling us that just as divine wisdom or truth came down into the form of human language in the written Word so, when men could no longer understand the written Word (see Matthew 15:1-6), divine wisdom came down into a human body, through which the Lord could show men what the written Word meant and how they ought to live. The Gospels, which became part of the written Word, are the record of His life, preserved so that we can know what He did and said; and, again because they are the Lord speaking to us, He is within them.

The John of whom our chapter speaks is not the apostle John but John the Baptist, of whom we learned so much last year in the Gospel of Mark.

Where did John baptize?

What did he say when he saw Jesus coming?

How was John shown that this was the "Son of God"?

We should know that while Jesus was in the world, He was called the "Son of God," and spoke of God as His Father, but He also said, "I and the Father are one," and, "he that hath seen me hath seen the Father." Read His words to Philip in John 14:7-9. The divine truth which showed itself to the world is called the Son, and the divine love which was within Him and could be seen only by means of divine truth is called the Father. The Philip mentioned in John 14 is the same Philip who is called to follow the Lord in our chapter.

Do you remember how many apostles there were?

Which ones are mentioned in our chapter?

Nathanael is not mentioned by this name in any of the lists of the twelve apostles, but it is generally believed that he was the same person as Bartholomew, who always comes directly after Philip in the lists. Bartholomew means "the son of Tolmai"; so he may very well have had a name of his own, too.

Have you noticed how often in this chapter people are told to, "Come and see"? Read verses 9 to 12 to see if you can find out why. Read what the Lord said to Nicodemus in John 3:19-21. These verses help us to understand why some people believed in the Lord and some did not. Those who knew they needed to live better lives and wanted to find out the truth — like those whom the Lord called in our chapter — were eager to "come and see" the Lord and readily accepted what He said. But those who were selfish and self-satisfied did not want to hear or believe Him. The same thing is true today.

