
=== Notes for Parents

The lesson in our chapter for today is a very beautiful one of the Lord's love and forgiveness. The scribes and Pharisees had found fault with Him because He received publicans and sinners. A publican was a Jew who collected taxes for the Roman conquerors; so the Pharisees despised him. In another place the Lord told the Pharisees: "They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick."

In our chapter the Lord answered His enemies with three parables. They all teach the same lesson, but each in a different way. Every one of us starts out in life with a "flock of sheep," that is, the innocent, trustful, loving states of a little child; but as we get a little older and our natural selfishness begins to assert itself, we are liable to let these heavenly feelings slip away from us one by one. Each one may become a "lost sheep." And when we are still children, each one of us acquires "ten pieces of silver," that is, truths which teach us what is right and wrong, especially the ten commandments. But again, when we find that one of the commandments forbids something we want very much to do, we hide the commandment away in the back of our mind. We let the dust of worldly reasoning cover it up. We have lost one of our bright "silver coins."

Finally, when we grow up, we want to take the talents and faculties which our heavenly Father has given us and use them to get as much pleasure as possible for ourselves. So we may leave our heavenly Father's home and go far away from Him where we may have our own way. We may even fall as low as the prodigal son did, and live for the satisfaction of our physical desires, which in symbol language are called "swine," and feed on "husks," the kind of thoughts which these lowest desires enjoy. But our heavenly Father has not really left us. Deep down inside somewhere we have a memory of Him and of the safe, happy home where we lived in our childhood. The Lord lives in that memory and is always trying to awaken it.

The chapter says of the prodigal son, "And when he came to himself ..." To imagine that we can do without the Lord and win happiness by following our own selfish way is insanity. We "come to ourselves" when we realize this. But we have to do something about it. The prodigal son did not lie there among the swine and wish for his father to come and take care of him again. He arose and went back step by step over the long road home, wanting only to be a servant where he had once been served. We sometimes forget this part of the parable. The Lord is always ready to forgive, but we must go back to Him. We must change our bad habits, our bad thoughts, our selfish feelings, and get back into a state in which we behave like a child of God.

