
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the twelve apostles as a whole and of Peter, James, and John in particular may be used as the beginning and basis of the lesson with this class. The thought that the Lord knows what is in each one of us and will teach and lead and support us all through our lives if we look to Him instead of to ourselves for guidance is one which young people should be given as early as possible.

The Lord chose twelve of His closest disciples to be His apostles, the men whom He would send out into the world to preach the Gospel, the good news of salvation. There were twelve apostles, as there were twelve tribes of Israel, because the number twelve signifies "all truths and goods in the complex," which means all that we can know and feel if we are trying to serve the Lord and the neighbor. The Lord, who knows the heart and mind of each one of us, saw in each of these twelve men particular characteristics which could serve in the establishment of the Christian Church. So He kept them with Him, and gave them special instruction and special experiences.

One of these experiences was practice in the work they would be doing after He left them. As our chapter tells us, He "gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases. And he sent them forth to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick." Mark tells us that they were sent out "by two and two." They were to provide nothing for their journey — not even money - but were to go about finding their food and lodging with people who were willing to receive them. This would keep them in the feeling that they were not going out in their own strength but were being led and cared for by the Lord. We all need this knowledge. And we learn from it, too, that even if we are sure we are right, we should not try to force ourselves or our ideas on people who do not want what we have to give.

In our story of the Gospel of Mark we had a lesson on the feeding of the multitude, the only one of the Lord's miracles which is recorded in all four Gospels. You will remember that this miracle taught the apostles — as it teaches us — that if one makes the effort to share with others the good and truth he has, however little it may be, first seeking the Lord's blessing upon it, the Lord will multiply it so that it will meet the need and more.

Now let us think about the rest of our assignment, which shows us still another kind of preparation given to the apostles. It makes a difference what we believe about God, both in this world and in the next. If we say we believe in God but refuse to accept any definite teaching about Him, we are thrown back on our own judgment and that of our community for our standards of right and wrong. We are not led by the Lord but by ourselves and the world. "God is not in all our thoughts" (Psalm 10:4).

That is why, in all three Gospels in which the incident of the transfiguration is recorded, it is immediately preceded by the account of the Lord's question to His disciples and Peter's answer. It is the recognition of the Lord as God come into the world which opens the mind to a true understanding of the Scriptures.

Look up and read Isaiah 9:6. This prophecy shows just how our thought about the Lord should rise, from dwelling on His life in this world — the child, and the son — by steps until we acknowledge Him as our heavenly Father from whom alone can come happiness and peace. Jesus told the woman of Samaria plainly that He was the promised Messiah (John 4:25-26). If we believe Him, we too see Him transfigured. His words are God's words, not only when He is saying tender, comforting things, but when He is pointing out and rebuking our sins. He speaks to us through the letter of the Word just as really as He spoke to Peter, James, and John.

Peter, James, and John, the three apostles who were the Lord's closest followers, represent faith, charity, and the works of charity. It is these three things in us which are able, if we accept the Lord as God, to follow Him up to the mountain — into a state of spiritual perception — and see Him transfigured. Luke says, "The fashion of his countenance was altered"; Matthew, "His face did shine as the sun." All three Gospels speak of the shining whiteness of His garments. The face is the symbol of the interior quality of a person. When we recognize the Lord as God Himself, we see that the love He manifested in His every word and act is the very nature of God; so His face shone as the sun. And the letter of the Word — His raiment — becomes suddenly clear to us and is freed from the apparent difficulties which marred it before. It shines with the light from within.

Peter's first confused thought was to give equal worship to Moses, Elijah, and Jesus; that is, to hold his old faith, and add the new "Christian" one. But when he made his proposal, the cloud — symbol of the darkness of his mind — overshadowed him, the voice was heard, and when the cloud lifted, the Lord "was found alone." Look up and read verses 16 to 18 of the first chapter of the second epistle of Peter, in which he speaks of this vision. The three apostles also learned from this experience that the Lord's coming was for all men, not just for the Jews of that day, although Peter later had to have another vision to remind him (Acts 11:1-17).

