
=== Notes for Parents

Did you ever think of the fact that we are all capable of being apostles of the Lord?

We sometimes hear a person say, "I didn't ask to be born; I can't help being what I am." This is his excuse for not trying to overcome his evils. The first part of his statement is true of every one of us. Under divine providence and without any choice of our own each one of us was born in a particular family, in a particular community, with a particular heredity, and with particular abilities and particular weaknesses.

But the second part of his statement is false. No one remains just what he was at birth, and what he becomes — his final character - depends on his own choice and not on anyone or anything else. Others may put stumbling blocks in his way, but we develop strength only by overcoming obstacles. Other people may tempt him to do wrong but he, like every person in the world, has an all-powerful friend always at hand to help him do right if he really wants to. We should look at the circumstances of our birth as our own special place and opportunity in the world — the place which no one else can fill. Our few short years of life here are given us just for the purpose of choosing what kind of people we want to be. And the choice is a very important one, for the character we choose for ourselves here is the character we shall keep to eternity.

Out of all His followers the Lord chose twelve men to be His apostles. They were very simple men. At least four of them were fishermen — three of them His closest disciples — and one was a tax collector, despised by his fellow men because of his occupation. But the Lord saw in each of them qualities which were needed for the establishment of His kingdom among men, and because they followed Him wherever He went and did what He told them to do, He could teach them and give them power to teach others and to help others to overcome their evils and weaknesses and mistaken ideas. Our lesson today tells us about some of this teaching and what the apostles were enabled to do. And because the Lord has recorded it for us in His Word, it is for us too, and we can learn to be His apostles in our world of today — if we choose.

