
=== Senior

Try to present this assignment throughout as instruction to us for our guidance in trying to serve as apostles of the Lord. Most of our young people start out in life with a genuine desire to make their lives count for the betterment of the world. If they will keep the lessons of this chapter in their minds, they will avoid many pitfalls, and will grow in ability and in spiritual effectiveness.

The word apostle means "one sent out." Each of us should be an apostle of the Lord. Our lives are given us by the Lord for a spiritual purpose — that we may develop the kingdom of heaven within us and help to develop it in the world about us. So when we read the story of the sending out of the twelve apostles, we may know that all the details of it as it is told in the Word apply to us also as apostles of the Lord. The Lord knows what is in each one of us, just as He knew what was in each one of His followers when He was in the world. He shows us in this chapter the spirit in which we should live our lives, the power He is able to give us, the conviction we should have about Him, and the vision it is possible for us to attain.

First He gave the apostles "power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases." If we look to Him, we shall be given power to conquer our evil tendencies and to correct our faults and weaknesses.

Then He gave them their mission: "to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick." Our business in life is to promote the kingdom of God in every possible way, and to help others to spiritual health.

Then He told them to take with them no provision of their own for their support while they were doing His work. This is a very important instruction for all of us. We tend naturally to be looking at ourselves in all that we do, thinking of our own abilities and of the impression we are making on others. But our message is not our own, and neither is the power which can make it helpful to others. Self-forgetfulness is essential if we are to be channels for the Lord's spirit.

"And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart." This means that when we find a willing reception in our efforts to do good, we should "stay with it" until our work is completed. Too often we do some small service or bring some bit of truth to a person who needs and welcomes it, and then do not follow through. Some other interest catches our attention, or some little difference of opinion or manner of life turns us away. On the other hand, we are warned not to try to force entrance where we are not wanted, and also to "shake off the very dust" of such an experience from our feet after it is over. We must not dwell on the thought of those who have been unwilling to hear what we have to say. Such thoughts, remaining in our minds, cloud our zeal and discourage us from other efforts. They are like the dust which adhered to the apostles' feet.

After the apostles returned to the Lord from their "practice teaching," He gave them another experience to drive home the lessons they had learned. We may recall that the feeding of the five thousand with the five loaves and two fishes pictures the power of the Lord to multiply our small supply of knowledge and ability as we try to use it in His name in the service of the neighbor.

Then in our chapter we come to the basic lesson to be learned.

As an introduction to our thought suppose we read the following passages in order: Isaiah 9:6, Matthew 1:21-23, Luke 4:17-21, John 4:25-26 and 14:8-9. Many within the Christian Church have allowed themselves to draw unwarranted conclusions from the mere words "son of God," when a little study of the passages in which the term is used would show that even in the letter the "son of God" merely means God in human form, Immanuel, "God with us." This is the obvious meaning in the Old Testament prophecies, and the claim which Jesus clearly made for Himself. This is what those who had the Scriptures expected the Messiah to be. Read John 10:32-33.

When the people refused to accept Jesus as the Messiah it was only because they did not want that kind of God. And that is the real reason today why people refuse to accept Him as God. They prefer to think of Him as a man, a man who said many inspired things perhaps, but with whom they are free to differ when what He says does not suit them.

The thought that Christ is not God Himself closes the door of the mind against light from heaven as it comes to us through the letter of the Word. Because Peter, James, and John believed Jesus to be the Messiah, their spiritual eyes could be opened to see Him transfigured. So our eyes can be opened to see Him in the inner meaning of the Word. Many years later John saw Him again in a still fuller vision. Read Revelation 1:12-18.

Swedenborg tells us that our ability to see the Lord when we come into the spiritual world is measured by the understanding of Him which we have gained in this world. If we have not thought of God as a person, Jesus Christ, we shall never see Him "face to face," but shall be conscious of Him only as a diffused light, even though after death we accept the fact that Jesus is God from our angel instructors as everyone must who enters the heavens; there will be no established basis in our minds for seeing Him as a person.

The lesson of the Lord's question to His disciples concerns us.

He asks the same question of us today, and upon our answer depends our ability to see Him transfigured and to find Him in all the Scriptures, to see Moses and Elijah — the Law and the Prophets - as teaching of Him. On our answer also depends our ability to be led by Him and to receive His spirit. Our thought of Him today should be led upward by gradual degrees through the study of the Law, the Prophets, and the Gospels in the light of their inner meaning, until the cloud is lifted and He stands alone as the only object of our worship.

