
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: What did the centurion ask of the Lord? to heal his servant

Junior: What did the Lord say about the centurion? he had great faith

Primary: What did the Lord do for the widow of Nain? restored son

Junior: What had happened to John the Baptist? put in prison

Junior: What did the messengers from John ask the Lord? are you Christ?

Junior: What did the Lord tell them? tell John what you've seen

Junior: What did He tell the people about John? great prophet

Primary: How many apostles were there? twelve

Primary: When the Lord sent them out, what powers did He give them? over devils, to heal

Junior: What were they to preach? kingdom of God

Primary: What were they to do? preach and heal in all cities

Primary: What were they not to take with them? no "extras"

Primary: Where were they to stay? in people's homes

Junior: What were they to do if they were not received? shake off dust

Junior: What miracle is part of our lesson? feeding five thousand

Junior: What did it teach the apostles? Lord's power to meet needs

Intermediate: What did Peter believe about the Lord? the Christ of God

Primary: What three apostles were closest to the Lord? Peter, James, John

Primary: What vision were they allowed to see? Lord dazzling white

Primary: Who were seen talking with the Lord in the vision? Moses, Elijah

Junior: What is this vision called? transfiguration

Intermediate: To what does the number twelve correspond? all good and truth in complex, all we can know and feel if we are trying to serve God and neighbor

Senior: Why could only Peter, James, and John see the transfiguration? they believed He was the Christ

Senior: What do we learn from the Lord's instruction to His apostles about those who would and those who would not receive them? we should share freely with those who accept, but not try to force belief

== THE GOOD SAMARITAN — Luke 10:25-42

Although there are several chapters in Luke between this one and the entry into Jerusalem, we might note that from Luke 9:51 we learn that the Lord is already on His way to Jerusalem for the last time. The subject matter of these chapters is largely composed of parables, teaching for the disciples, a few miracles, and the exposing of the states in which the religious leaders were. The first part of chapter 10 contains a condemnation of those whose minds were closed, and the teacher should read it in preparation for the lawyer's question and the Lord's answer, which bring the matter into clear light.

