
=== Notes for Parents

Often when we are driving through new country, we come to a fork in the road. A sign—post tells us plainly which way we ought to go. If we obey it, we know we shall reach our destination. The other fork is not marked but it seems to be going in about the same direction and looks like a more pleasant road, and we take a chance; we think, "It may take us a little out of the way but it will certainly get us to the same place in time." So we go off on the wrong fork and it swings gradually away from the right road and takes us farther and farther astray. How often in our own personal lives we take this kind of chance! The Lord has marked the right road for us plainly, but we think we know better. And one wrong step leads to another. "Because wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat." (Matthew 7:13)

The first people, after they listened to the serpent and chose to follow their own judgment, continued on the downward path until they had gone so far from the Lord's way that their evil passions and false ideas actually destroyed them, just as they destroy some people today. This destruction is pictured for us in the Bible story of the flood.

But there are always some who stand up in the face of temptation and refuse to follow the crowd. These good people are pictured by Noah. By obeying the Lord they are enabled to ride out the storm and begin a new and better life.

When we have had a heavy storm and the sun suddenly breaks through the clouds, we see against the darkest part of the sky a beautiful arch of colors — a rainbow. It is the same — if we are of those who try to obey the Lord — when we have passed successfully through a severe temptation. He is able to light up for us the bits of truth from His Word which we have in our minds and make them suddenly beautiful with new meaning. What a perfect symbol is the rainbow of the Lord's power to protect and bless us no matter how dark life may seem!

