
=== Adult

The right approach to the Word and the importance of steady reliance upon the Lord in times of temptation, doubt, and discouragement are two lessons we all need. Often we think we believe in the Lord and His power to direct and save us, and we think we believe in the Word, but we do not fully use His help in the emergencies of our daily life.

---
The children of Israel ate the first Passover feast with their loins girded, their shoes on their feet, and their staves in their hands, and immediately started on their journey, and they reached the Red Sea before their first great impetus suffered a setback. But the setback came. It was inevitable. We cannot go through life on the strength of one good resolution. At the Red Sea the Egyptian army caught up with the Israelites. All our former habits of thought and feeling are still with us in full strength. We need to recognize this and also to feel our inability to overcome them in our own strength. It is only the Lord, present with us in the form of our guardian angels, who stands between us and destruction. The writings tell us that the pillar of cloud and fire which led the Israelites throughout their journey and which stood behind them through the night at the Red Sea to hide them from the pursuing enemy, was actually a company of angels with the Lord in their midst. We read in the twenty-seventh Psalm: "For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion." And before we can really be free of our bondage to the world, we must have the further experience of seeing our way opened before us by the Lord and must be made to acknowledge the powerlessness of our enemies to follow us if we go forward. This is our "crossing of the Red Sea."

We have studied the stories of the sweetening of the bitter water at Marah, the welcome period of rest at Elim, and the giving of the quails and manna. These early experiences in the wilderness picture the first benefits we receive from the Lord in our efforts to reform our lives. For we recall that the whole wilderness journey describes the period of "reformation" through which we must pass before actual regeneration begins.

"Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness."

The hunger of the Israelites pictures our realization that of ourselves we have no goodness. The story of the giving of the manna is the promise that the Lord will give us of His goodness day by day to strengthen us on our way. Thirst represents our sense of need for truth. How often we say, "I wish I knew"! After the manna comes the giving of water from the rock of Horeb.

Moses was commanded: "Go on before the people, and take with thee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest the river, take in thine hand, and go. Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb; and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it, that the people may drink." This is our pattern for finding the truth which we need for our daily living — a pattern to follow every time we say, "I wish I knew." Here is how we may understand it: Moses as our leader represents our acknowledgment that we must obey the divine law. The rock in Horeb is the Word as the basis of our faith. The Lord always stands before us on the rock in Horeb. We are to go to the Word for the truth we need. But there are other specific directions. We are to take with us some of the elders of Israel — the principles given us in our doctrines — and the rod or power of the Lord as we have experienced it in past crises. We are to take the rod in our hand and smite the rock — that is, to go to the Word with the conviction that we shall be given the power to understand and use its truth. The Word does not yield the water of life to those who read it as a product of men or to those who go to it to find confirmation for their own ideas. This is one of the lessons we must learn early in our journey.

Our chapter today also contains another lesson which we all need many times in our lives. So far in the story there has been little for Israel to do but to follow the pillar of cloud and fire. Even when they crossed the Red Sea, the Israelites had only to go steadily forward. The Lord opened the way for them and destroyed their enemies. And in the experiences which followed, they had only to ask and the Lord provided their needs. But now they are permitted to encounter an enemy whom they have to fight. As soon as we have gone a little way on our journey toward the promised land and have gained a little confidence and strength, this strength must be tried.

The Israelites were at Rephidim, passing through a narrow valley leading inland, when they were attacked by the Amalekites.

Amalek means "valley dweller." Amalek was a grandson of Esau. He pictures an evil in the will, or a "low" state of the will. In Deuteronomy 25:17-18 we learn that it was the strategy of the Amalekites to spring out from ambush on the rear of the line of their enemy and attack the stragglers and the weary. How often when we are physically or mentally tired, we find it harder to resist the temptation to indulge in doubt and discouragement, and in hasty judgment or speech! Our will power is at a low point, and our individual weaknesses manifest themselves suddenly and are hard to control. It is these times which show us most clearly what our own real nature is — what we would be without the Lord's protection and help. We need this revelation.

Moses offered to take the rod of God in his hand and go up to the top of the nearest hill. This is a picture of the immediate attempt we should make to lift our thoughts to the Lord and, remembering His help in the past, to look confidently to Him for strength. Moses — symbol of the law as we find it in the Word — is our first reliance. As long as Moses' hands were lifted up, Israel prevailed.

But Moses' hands grew weary. We grow tired of fighting with only the stern "Thou shalt not" to support us. Swedenborg tells us that in this story Moses, Aaron, and Hur represent divine truth in three stages of its mediation to us. Moses represents truth received immediately from the Lord; that is, our knowledge of the Word itself. Aaron, who was presently to be appointed high priest and who had been Moses' spokesman from the beginning, represents the truth from the Word as it is explained in the doctrines of the church. Hur, who was one of the leaders of the people, represents this mediate truth again mediated, as, perhaps, it comes to us from our pastors and teachers and in our own meditation and experience. Aaron and Hur held up Moses' hands. When we are tired and discouraged and tempted to give in to our weaknesses, we should recall all that we have learned of the Lord's guidance and saving power from the Word, from the church, and from our own thought and experience. Moses sat on a rock and Aaron and Hur held up his hands until the sun went down and Israel prevailed. We must rest on our faith in the Lord, our Rock, and make use of all we know of His love for us and His power to save and strengthen us, until the sun of our self-love goes down and we are victorious.

Then we should give thanks to the Lord for His help. Moses built an altar of remembrance and called it Jehovah—nissi, which means "the Lord my banner." We have added one more experience to strengthen us for the next conflict.

