
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson to stress with this class is the importance of using in our daily life and our daily thinking all the truth we learn and understand in Sunday school and church. This is the only way in which we can make spiritual progress.

---
The Israelites were to have a long, hard journey before they reached their home in Canaan, and this means that our reformation and regeneration — our journey to our heavenly home — is a long, slow process. The whole book of Exodus, from chapter 12 on, is in its spiritual sense a description of the period of reformation in us, the period in which we recognize and try to correct our faults, one by one. In this wilderness journey the children of Israel were led by Moses, who stands for divine law, and by a pillar of cloud by day and fire by night, which moved before them or stood still when the Lord wished them to stop. The pillar represented the presence of the Lord with them, and Swedenborg tells us that it was actually an angelic company through whom the Lord made His presence evident.

The Lord leads us in the same way, for we know that there are angels with us all the time reminding us of the truths we have learned and prompting us to obey them. It is these angels through whom the Lord shows us the truth in the Word when we read it with a desire to learn how to live rightly. For when we read the letter of the Word, the angels who are with us are reading its internal sense.

You remember the story of the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea and the drowning of the pursuing Egyptian army. This pictures our first real temptation after we make up our minds to obey the Lord. When it comes, we always think it is too strong for us, but if we trust in the Lord instead of in ourselves and go forward, we not only come through the temptation safely, but looking back we can see how weak our enemy really was.

We have also studied the stories of the first few weeks in the wilderness — how the Lord made the bitter water sweet at Marah, how He gave the people rest at Elim, and how He brought them quails when they begged for meat and supplied the manna for their daily bread.

Now we are studying two things that happened at Rephidim, in a narrow valley between mountains on the way to Sinai. First, the people were without water. Moses, at the command of the Lord, struck the rock with his rod and the water gushed out. Water and rock are both symbols of truth, but they are truth in different forms. Rock represents the fundamental truths on which a good life is to be built. We must learn and acknowledge these. But they sometimes seem to us hard and "dry." It is only as we try with all our might to use them — which is represented by Moses striking the rock with his rod - that we suddenly find how satisfying and helpful they can be in our daily living.

Then we are given opportunities to put our new truth into practice. We begin to see that there are faults in ourselves, wrong ideas which have been lurking within our minds because of our selfishness and worldliness. These are the Amalekites. Read Deuteronomy 25:17-18. These wrong thoughts come up in our minds when we are "tired of trying" and attack us where we are weakest. We do not overcome them at one stroke or in our own strength. We must go at them systematically. Joshua is our leader in this battle. He represents "the truth fighting," and he is to be the leader later in the conquest of the Holy Land. Moses went up on the hill and lifted up his hands to the Lord. This means that in our battle we must always remember that it is the Lord's law we are trying to obey and that He will help us if we ask Him.

Aaron and Hur went up with Moses and helped to hold up his hands. Aaron was Moses' brother, the one the Lord assigned to be his spokesman to Pharaoh and to the people (Exodus 4:10-]6). He represented divine law as it has come to us in the teachings of the church: and Hur, who was one of the leaders of the people (Exodus 24:14), represents the particular things our teachers and parents have been able to give us from these teachings. That is, everything we have been taught can help us to meet our inner temptations in the right way and to overcome them with the Lord's help.

Then after the victory Moses built an altar of remembrance at Rephidim. When we say that we all have to learn some things by experience, we are usually thinking of our mistakes and failures. But victories are experience, too, and we need to remember them and especially to remember that it was the Lord who gave us the victory. The altar at Rephidim was named Jehovah—nissi, which means "the Lord my banner." Moses said that "the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation." Remember this whenever wrong thoughts come up in your mind; then ask the Lord's help, and drive them out.

