
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a good opportunity to study with the Older Children a map of the wilderness journey and especially to point out Sinai in its geographical relation to Egypt and to the Holy Land. In both the incidents of our chapter the lesson to emphasize is the Lord's readiness to help us whenever we turn to Him. Call special attention to Joshua.

---
Look at a map and follow the course of the Israelites after they crossed the Red Sea. In chapter 14 of Exodus we read of their stop at Marah, where the Lord showed Moses how to make the bitter water sweet, and of the period of rest at Elim, "where there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees." Chapter 16 tells of the giving of quails and the miraculous bread called "manna" with which they were to be fed every day throughout their whole forty years in the wilderness.

Then comes our chapter for today. The Israelites have left the seacoast and are traveling toward Sinai. They are going through a narrow valley between mountains. In flood time these valleys carry down torrents of water, but now they are dry.

What did the people demand of Moses?

To whom did Moses turn for help?

What did the Lord tell him to do?

What happened?

What was the name of the place to which they had come?

What is the mountain called in which the rock was?

This range of mountains is called in the Bible sometimes Horeb and sometimes Sinai, although we usually think of Sinai as the particular peak from which the commandments were given.

Also at Rephidim the Israelites had to fight their first battle.

The people called Amalek or the Amalekites are often mentioned as enemies of Israel. The word Amalek means "valley dweller." They had a particularly troublesome method of attack. Read Deuteronomy 25:17-18 to see what it was.

Who was the leader of the fighting men of Israel?

Who went up on the hill with Moses?

What happened when Moses help up his hands to the Lord?

What happened when he let them down?

When Moses became tired, what did Aaron and Hur do?

The Amalekites were defeated, and Moses built an altar at Rephidim as a memorial of the fact that the Lord would always help the Israelites against Amalek. They had to fight them again under Gideon, and later under Saul and under David.

