
=== Adult

The comparison of the gradual development of man into a church, as pictured in the Creation story, with the gradual judgment upon the man who has destroyed the church in himself is an interesting discussion topic. Another is Swedenborg's treatment of the Reformed Church, which we call Protestant. We all need to face this subject frankly, realizing that in talking about the first Christian Church we are speaking of it as an organization founded on certain doctrines and that we are not pronouncing judgment on any of its present members. We should hold the same thought in speaking of the Church of the New Jerusalem in the world. It is an organization founded on certain specific doctrines. If we profess to belong to it, we have the responsibility of studying and trying to live those doctrines. Our souls take their form from what we really believe, and it is this form which is revealed in the light of divine truth when we pass into the spiritual world.

---
We might begin our study of this lesson by noting some of the striking parallels it presents with other parts of the Word. We are familiar with the fact that the Bible begins and ends with accounts of the great river of water of life and the tree of life. We also realize that the great dragon of Revelation 12 is "that old serpent" which we first meet when he tempts Eve in the Garden of Eden. But we do not often carry our comparison further. Consider, then, the six days of creation, picturing the stages of the development of man into a true church, with the seventh day marking the completion of the process: then think of the opening of the six seals and the blowing of the six trumpets — with the seventh in each case set off by itself and signifying completeness — and realize that these mark the stages in the judgment upon those who reject the Lord and so refuse to be built into a church. Again, note that in the first chapter of the Bible we read that the sun, moon, and stars were created on the fourth day and that in our chapter on the judgment it was the sounding of the fourth trumpet which heralded the destruction of the sun, moon, and stars. Remember the "voice of the trumpet exceeding loud" which was heard from the mount just before the giving of the ten commandments from Sinai. Then there is the familiar story of the capture of Jericho, when the children of Israel marched around the city once each day for six days and seven times on the seventh day following the priests who bore the ark, and the walls fell when the priests sounded their trumpets. And there were seven priests — seven trumpets. In the story of Gideon, the Midianites were thrown into confusion by the sounding of the trumpets and the sudden flashing out of the lights as the pitchers which had hidden them were broken. And in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew — the so—called "little Apocalypse" - Matthew 24:31 tells us that at the Second Coming of the Lord — when He is to come "in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory" - "he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other." Compare this with Revelation 7:1-3. There are also many verses in the Prophets in which the sounding of a trumpet spells victory for the righteous and doom for the evil.

Even without a knowledge of correspondence it should be evident that these parallels are too many to be accidental, and that there is some meaning behind the letter, but in the light of the New Age we can see this meaning clearly. The sounding of a trumpet, we are told, represents "Divine truth manifested and revealed out of heaven" (@AE 262). It is in the light of truth that evils and falsities are recognized in all their destructive and deadly character. We all tend to go along blithely believing what we want to believe, what is convenient for us to believe. This tendency in the Christian Church was evident as early as the time of the giving of the book of Revelation, as we learn from the Lord's messages to the seven churches in Asia Minor. The Second Coming took place — had to take place — when the perversion of the Lord's teachings had become so widespread and so entrenched that the simple good in the Christian Church could no longer find out the truth. The same situation existed, we remember, at the end of the Israelitish Church when the Lord made His first Advent. So while our chapters, like all the Word, have their application to the judgment on the life of every individual when he comes into the spiritual world, they refer specifically to what is called "the last judgment," the judgment which was executed in the spiritual world at the time of the Second Coming upon all who had been gathered into that world from the Christian Church since its beginning. We are told in the writings that the permanent Christian heavens could not be formed until the Word had been opened, and that the good who entered the spiritual world from the first Christian Church were in the meantime kept in the part of the intermediate world which is called the "lower earth," while the evil were gathered in "imaginary heavens." The Last Judgment, made on the basis of the opened Word, was executed upon these; the imaginary heavens were dispersed; the evil, given to see their own actual states, found their places in the hells; and the good were raised from the lower earth and formed into permanent Christian heavens. The dispersion of the imaginary heavens is what is pictured by Revelation 6:14. The condition of the good and their protection by the Lord until the completion of the judgment is described in Revelation 6:9-11 and 7:1-3.

A very brief statement of the general meaning of our two chapters for today is given at the beginning of these chapters in the Apocalypse Revealed and is quoted here to help in our study of these chapters:

On chapter 8: "The church of the Reformed is here treated of, as to the quality of those therein who are in faith alone: the preparation of the spiritual heaven for communication with them (vers. 1-6). The exploration and manifestation of those therein, who are in the interiors of that faith (ver. 7). Of those who are in its exteriors (vers. 8, 9). What they are as to the understanding of the Word (vers. 10, 11). That they are in falsities and thence in evils (vers. 12, 13)."

On chapter 9: "Of the exploration and manifestation of the states of life of those in the church of the Reformed, who are called learned and wise from the confirmation of faith separated from charity, and of justification and salvation by it alone (these are treated of from verses 1-12).

"Of the exploration and manifestation of those therein, who are not so learned and wise, and are in faith alone, and who live as they please (from verses 13-19).

"Lastly, of those therein, who know nothing but that faith is the all by which man is saved, and not anything besides (verses 20, 21)."

From this we see that in this first part of John's vision the judgment is upon those who have confirmed themselves in the doctrine of "faith alone," the doctrine on which the Reformed, or Protestant, Church is founded. Some of the later visions deal with the Roman Catholic Church. We need to keep clearly in mind that Swedenborg is talking of the first Christian Church in its various divisions according to the doctrinal basis on which these divisions were made and developed. We sometimes choose to ignore such doctrinal foundations and to assume that "nobody believes those things anymore." But this is mere wishful thinking, growing, perhaps, out of our inclination to seem broad—minded and ecumenical. When people refuse to think about the teachings on which their church technically stands and continue to belong to it, believing anything they please, their allegiance is mere lip—service to a name and has no effect on their lives. There are plenty of people today who believe very firmly in the doctrine of faith alone although many of them do not live it. But any one of us may indeed be living in faith alone if we ride along on the assumption that we do not need to study the Lord's truth and live according to it — that the Lord is so kind that He will save us no matter what we think or do. We need to read our two chapters very thoughtfully in this light, for the destruction pictured in them is very real. It is the gradual destruction of all genuine goodness and truth in the soul of the person who chooses to lead himself instead of to be led by the Lord.

