
=== Intermediate

Much more can be done with this class on the general meaning of the two chapters, and the young people should be introduced to the thought that this is a picture not only of judgment on our individual lives but specifically of the Last Judgment, which took place at the time of the Second Coming. This is especially necessary as a preparation for the lessons that follow.

---
In the last lesson only the first six of the seven seals on the book of the Word were opened. Chapter 7, which we have not assigned, tells how the Lord, before allowing the seventh seal to be opened, had all the good souls sealed with His seal so that they could not be hurt by the things which were about to happen. There is a very plain and simple lesson for us in this. Other people cannot make us bad against our wills and we should never blame other people for our own weakness, because when we really want to do right, the Lord always makes it possible for us.

The opening of the seventh seal is the final revelation of the Lord's truth. You remember from our lessons on the Creation story that the six days represented the stages or preparation and development of the first church formed from the human race on earth, and the seventh day represented the completion of this development. The number seven signifies "all," and we think of it as a holy number because we connect it with the sabbath and because it is so often used of holy things in the Word. So here six seals are opened, and then there is a pause before the opening of the seventh. Then when the seventh seal is opened, two chapters are given to the story of the sounding of the first six of the seven trumpets, and then a new chapter and series of visions begins with the sounding of the seventh.

A trumpet in the Word represents "Divine truth manifested and revealed out of heaven." Look up Exodus 19:16, where the voice of a trumpet heralded the giving of the ten commandments from Sinai. When Joshua took Jericho, you remember, the people marched around the city, following the priests who bore the ark, once a day for six days and seven times on the seventh day, and then the priests blew their trumpets and the walls of the city fell. And perhaps you remember how in the story of Gideon (Judges 7:16-22) each of Gideon's men was given a trumpet and a lamp within a pitcher and when Gideon sounded his trumpet, all the others broke their pitchers so that their lights appeared suddenly, and blew their trumpets, and the enemy fell into confusion and was easily overcome.

In our lesson today, as each trumpet is sounded, destruction of one kind or another follows. We have seen that this vision given to John is a picture of the judgment which was to take place at the end of the first Christian Church. We have studied the successive churches on earth — the Most Ancient, the Ancient, and the Israelitish — and have seen how each began with a new revelation of truth from the Lord, how this truth was received and used by the good and falsified and rejected by the evil, and how in each church the evil gradually increased until the Lord had to step in to save the remnant of good people and form them into a new church. The coming of the Lord into the world was the beginning of the first Christian Church, but the Lord Himself told the disciples (Matthew 24) that it would follow the same course as the others and that He would have to come again before the final Christian Church on earth could be established.

So the destructions which take place in our two chapters are a revelation of how falsities and evils gradually destroyed truth and goodness in the souls of most of the people in the first Christian Church. These people all thought that because they belonged to the church and professed to believe in the Lord, they would go to heaven. But you know that, although we can often hide our real feelings and thoughts while we live in this world, we have to leave all this "protective covering" behind us with our bodies when we die. The judgment is nothing more than the laying bare of our real spiritual states in the other world when we come face—to—face with the truth about ourselves.

We have not tried to take up the details of these chapters in a Sunday school lesson because there are too many of them. They are, however, all explained in Swedenborg's works Apocalypse Revealed and @AE , which you will want to study after you are grown up. You might notice now, however, that the first four destructions took place in the earth, the sea, the rivers and fountains, and finally the sun, moon, and stars, and you remember from other lessons that the earth pictures our life as to goodness, the sea the knowledges of truth gathered in the memory, the rivers and fountains truth as it comes to us from the Lord, and the sun, moon, and stars our love for the Lord, belief in Him, and knowledge about Him. In each case it is said that a third part was destroyed, and Swedenborg tells us that a third has the same meaning as the number three which refers to the three planes of the soul: will, thought, and act. So the sounding of these first four trumpets shows how the evil in the church destroyed in themselves all love, truth, and goodness.

In chapter 9, with the sounding of the fifth and sixth trumpets, the hells were opened to show the quality of those in them and the kinds of harm they do. Swedenborg tells us that those exposed by the fifth trumpet are those among the evil in the church who have considered themselves learned and wise and have desired to rule others, while those exposed by the sixth trumpet are those who did not pose as wise but who chose to believe that they could live as they pleased and nevertheless be saved in the end because they professed to believe in the Lord.

As we read chapters like this, we wonder how anyone could see such terrible destructions and still choose to reject the Lord's truth. But read the last two verses of our lesson. We should learn from this that while we may be kept by punishments from commiting outward evil deeds, our desire to commit them cannot be changed except by our own free choice. No one can be driven to love and serve the Lord or to love the neighbor.

