
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Children notes suggest a line of thought in which this lesson can be meaningful for this age group. The thought of this meaning can be introduced in connection with the review and then developed after the striking pictures of the text have had their effect.

---
In our lesson today we have the beginning of the completion of John's vision with the opening of the seventh seal, which pictures the complete openings of the Word so that people can really be sure of what it teaches. Look up John 9:39-41. We all often do wrong things without realizing that they are wrong. Although such things may have very bad consequences, we feel that we shall be forgiven because we did not mean to do wrong. But when we know a thing is wrong and do it anyway, we do not want anyone to find it out because we know we are to blame. We like to think well of ourselves and to have other people admire us. When the real truth is known so that we cannot help seeing how selfish and foolish we have been, the pretty picture of ourselves which we have built up is destroyed. It is this kind of destruction which John was shown in his vision, and these two chapters will mean something to you if you will think that the things which are overthrown or burned up or drowned one after another as the trumpets sound are our ideas of our own goodness and wisdom.

We are told in chapter 7 that before the seventh seal was opened all the good people were marked or "sealed" by command of the Lord so that they would not be hurt by the things which were about to happen. Swedenborg tells us that the silence in heaven when the seventh seal was opened is an expression of the amazement of the angels when they saw how bad men of the church on earth really were.

How many angels did John see standing before God?

What were given to them?

What did still another angel have?

What happened when he cast his censer full of fire to the earth?

In our two chapters how many of the trumpets are sounded?

In the Word the sounding of a trumpet is always a symbol of the proclaiming of truth from the Lord. Look up Exodus 19:16 and read what happened just before the ten commandments were given from Mount Sinai. The blowing of the seven trumpets, like the opening of the seven seals, means the appearance of more and more of the truth. All these scenes are like a great moving picture which the Lord gives us to make us stop and think and not let our own hearts and minds get into such a state that we cannot bear to face the truth. Notice especially the last two verses in our lesson. Men and women can become so settled in selfish and evil ways that even disaster does not make them want to change themselves. Think how hard it sometimes is even now for you to acknowledge that you have been wrong and begin to behave differently. And the longer we go on closing our eyes to our own faults and just trying to have our own way the harder it is to change. But when you are young, good habits are just as easy to form as bad ones, and if we are wise, we can see that it is goodness and not selfishness which brings happiness to us as well as to others.

