
=== Notes for Parents

Our chapters for today contain visions of disaster, and again we must realize that it is spiritual and not physical disaster which is pictured. If we remember that the giving of the ten commandments from Mount Sinai was heralded by "thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled," we shall see that the sounding of the trumpets from heaven is a symbol of the proclamation of divine truth, and its effect shows us the spiritual devastation which is wrought in the souls of men by indifference to divine truth and denial of it.

In this world it is possible for us to put on the appearance of goodness when we are not good at heart. We all like to have others admire us and we like to think well of ourselves. But goodness which is put on for this reason has no real goodness within it. It is all on the outside and is left behind with the body when we pass into the other world. There we are seen as we really are, and if we have not learned to be genuinely humble and loving and God-fearing, our inner states appear in all their ugliness. Our selfish ambitions, our pride, our resentment against those who do not favor us, our desire to be served by others, are pictured by the strange and terrible locusts of John's vision, and the false reasonings by which we have defended our selfishness are pictured by the destructive horses and their riders.

There is another very important lesson in our chapter. We like to imagine that we can put off serious thinking about spiritual things — that the Lord is so good and loving that He will in the end overlook all the evils we may have allowed to grow up within us, and will save us in spite of ourselves. But in this vision we are told plainly that in spite of the revelation of the ugly and destructive character of the things in their souls, the evil did not repent.

The Lord is indeed all-loving, but He is also all-wise. He created us in His own image and likeness, which means that He gave us the power to reason and the power to choose freely what we want to think and to be. He cannot take these powers from us without destroying our humanity. He cannot force us to love Him, because love must be freely given or it is not love. We know how this is from our experience with our children. We can make them behave, but we cannot make them like to behave. Our life in this world is our time of choice, the seed-time when we make ourselves what we want to be. The judgment in the other world is merely the harvest time, when we reap what we have sown.

