
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
As we read this chapter to the little children, we need to keep in mind that the words are the Lord's and that the children are very close to Him as they listen. It is sometimes hard for us older people, whose minds are busy searching for the meaning of such a chapter as this, to realize that the children are not troubled about the meaning and are impressed and delighted by the words themselves, as they should be. Do not expect the children to remember the details from one reading, but after reading the chapter, take up the questions, having the children who are able to read find the answers.

---
We have been reading about some of the wonderful things which the apostle John saw in vision. The Lord was showing him a great moving picture acted out before his spiritual eyes. John did not understand what it all meant any more than you do, but he was told to write it down, and he obeyed.

Where was John when he was given the vision about which we read in the book of Revelation?

What book did he see?

With how many seals was it sealed?

Who opened the seals?

What did John see as the first four seals were opened?

The opening of the next two seals revealed the good and evil gathered to be judged.

Our lesson today is about the opening of the seventh seal. What immediately followed?

What did the seven angels have?

What did the eighth angel have?

What happened when he filled it with fire and cast it into the earth?

What happened when the first angel sounded his trumpet?

What happened when the second angel sounded?

What happened when the third angel sounded?

What was the name of the star?

What happened when the fourth angel sounded?

What did the angel who flew through the midst of heaven say?

The sad things that happen in our chapter are pictures of things that happen in our minds and hearts when we are selfish and unwilling to learn and obey the Lord's truth.

Many years later, when the people of the Christian Church had gone through hard experiences and those who were good had learned that they needed more knowledge, which only the Lord could give them, the Lord showed to a man named Emanuel Swedenborg what John's vision meant, and commanded him to write it down. So now you will be able, as you grow older, to understand it.

Even now you can know that John's vision is a picture of the way in which the wonderful love and truth and power which the Lord is always offering us is received by different kinds of people. Good, unselfish people are made happy by it, but bad, selfish people hate it and are tormented by it.

Does this seem strange? When you are feeling naughty and trying to get your own way, how are you likely to behave when your mother tries to show you what is right?

In this world we can cover up our ugly feelings and thoughts, but in the other world they all come out and everyone sees them.

