
=== Senior

This is a good lesson in which to arm the young people against the arguments of fundamentalists concerning the Second Coming and the Last Judgment. Our young people need such protection and we owe it to them. There are also in these chapters things which will help them to understand the chaotic conditions in the Christian world of today and to chart their course wisely and with charitable insight into the problems of young people in other churches.

---
We have seen that the four horses and their riders which appeared as the first four seals were opened picture different ways in which people look at the Word of the Lord. And the opening of the fifth and sixth seals revealed the general states of the good and of the evil with respect to their desire for divine truth.

There are many people in the Christian world who think that there is to be a judgment day on this earth, when the various prophecies in the Bible will be literally fulfilled, the dead will be raised, the evil cast into hell, and the good taken up to heaven. These people forget that some of these same prophecies were made in the Old Testament concerning the first advent and they were not literally fulfilled, although they believe the Lord came. The prophecies were all spiritually fulfilled, however, as all the prophecies in the New Testament will be.

The opening of the seventh seal marks the beginning of a long series of symbolic pictures of the judgment on the evil. There are two applications of these visions, one to the experience of the individual when he enters the other life, and the other to the general judgment on the first Christian Church which took place at the time of the Second Coming of the Lord in the middle of the eighteenth century. It is in this sense that it is called "the last judgment." We have seen in our lessons that at the end of each of the great dispensations — the Most Ancient, the Ancient, and the Israelitish Churches — there was a judgment, when the states of the people were revealed and the remnant of good people were separated from the rest, given a new revelation, and became the nucleus of a new church. In the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew the Lord Himself tells His disciples the same thing will happen to the first Christian Church when He comes again "in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory." And this prophecy is directly connected with our lesson for today by verse 31 of that chapter (Matthew 24:31):

"And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other."

Read here Revelation 7:1-3. That chapter, which we have not included in our assignment, tells us that before the Lord permitted the seventh seal to be opened, He had all the good people sealed with His own seal so that the destruction which was to follow should not touch them.

From the book of Revelation we learn that judgment is no instantaneous process accomplished by a fiat of the Lord when one enters the spiritual world or at the end of a church on earth. We see this in the fact that there are many religions still in the world which are remnants of the Ancient Church, and the Jewish Church is still with us, and the first Christian Church is all around us. Only the Most Ancient Church has been completely removed from the earth. But in these churches which remain changes are going on, which we can see and understand in the light of our teachings. The Last Judgment took place in the spiritual world. Its effects on earth appear only gradually.

The same is true of our judgment as individuals. When we pass into the other world, our final choice has actually been made, but we are not immediately raised to heaven or cast into hell. If we have chosen to acknowledge and obey the Lord and to give up our own desires and thoughts whenever we found them to be contrary to the teaching of the Word of God, we shall find ourselves "sealed" with the divine seal, that is, protected against the assaults of evil spirits in the intermediate world, instructed, and led gently and happily toward the heavens. But if we have rejected the Lord's guidance and insisted on following our own way, the progressive destruction represented in our chapters will take place. Throughout the Word the sounding of a trumpet pictures the proclamation of divine truth, and it is in the light of divine truth that our evils appear and the falsities of the reasonings by which we have justified our selfishness are exposed. And we do not change from evil to good, as we learn from the last two verses of our lesson. We have to fit ourselves for the enjoyment of heavenly happiness. If the delights we crave are selfish, they can be found only in the hells.

The details of these visions are too many to be considered in a lesson, but they are all explained in the writings. An example follows the Adult notes.

