
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The whole subject of hypocrisy is an interesting discussion topic. We all condemn hypocrisy, and we should recognize that we are all hypocrites to some extent. The quotations from True Christian Religion and Apocalypse Explained given in the notes below help us to think this problem through and to meet it in ourselves. The question of the limits we should set upon our judgment of others is also important.

---
Our chapter begins with the giving of the Lord's Prayer. We are more familiar with the somewhat different form given in Matthew, where it is recorded as part of the sermon on the mount. For the New Churchman such differences of form and context create no problem, because we know that the incidents were recalled to the minds of the different evangelists in each case in a providential order, and that the words were providentially directed each time to serve the needs of the internal sense. We should remember, however, that the Gospel was written in Greek and that, whenever any difficulty arises over differences in form in connection with the same incident, it becomes important to know what the Greek says. In the Lord's Prayer, for example, the order "as in heaven, so in earth" is the order in the Greek both in Matthew and Luke (but see the footnote at the Junior level). This order has an evident bearing upon the lesson of the rest of our chapter for today.

In the first thirteen verses of the chapter we are given the picture of what our true relation to the Lord is. We are children of our heavenly Father, dependent upon Him for guidance and help in every phase of our daily life, just as little children depend upon their earthly parents: and if we acknowledge and accept this relationship, we may look to Him with confidence for the supplying of our every spiritual need.

Against this background we are given the picture of the scribes and Pharisees who, while professing to know and keep the law of Moses above all others, rejected the promised Messiah when He appeared among them, because at heart they wanted no rule but their own will. As Isaiah wrote of them, they honored God with their lips, but their heart was far from Him. Read Isaiah 29:13-19 as an exact description of the conditions presented in our chapter.

We may take verses 33 and 34 as a summary of the teaching of the chapter. The scribes and Pharisees had done just what is pictured by putting the candle in a secret place or under a bushel instead of on a candlestick. They had covered up the light of truth in the word of the Old Testament with their own false interpretations and additions, instead of lifting it up where it might give light to the people around them. They posed as the special spokesmen of the church. We recall words of the Lord to John in Revelation 1:20: "The seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches." The primary function of any church is to teach truth from the Word so that people may walk in the light. When a church covers over this light with reasonings which spring from the exaltation of human intelligence above revelation, it is false to its high calling.

Verse 34 goes to the root of this evil. "The light of the body is the eye." The eye is a symbol of the understanding. The eye has to be "single." Swedenborg renders this word "simple."* The Greek work [and its Latin counterpart], according to the dictionary, means "single, simple, candid, ingenuous, frank, sincere." In our verse this is contrasted with "evil." The Greek word means "wicked, perverse, malignant, evil." So the emphasis is on the state of the heart as influencing the understanding. And in the two words used, the contrast is between an inner state of humility and one of self-will. If we follow this thought through a study of the charges which the Lord makes against the scribes and Pharisees, the picture becomes very clear. We should also read the more detailed record of this condemnation in Matthew 23. The teaching is that we believe what we at heart want to believe, however our outward life may appear.

[*In @AE 526[13], e.g., he has "oculum purum" seu "simplicem" ("clear or simple" [honest] eye).]

In @TCR 147 we read: "It is as yet scarcely known in the church that in all of man's will and thought and his consequent action and speech, there is an internal and an external, and that from infancy man is carefully taught to speak from the external, however the internal may dissent; and that this is the origin of simulation, flattery, and hypocrisy; and thus man becomes double-minded. But he alone is single-minded whose external thinks and speaks and wills and acts from the internal; and such are meant by the 'simple (single)' in the Word (as in Luke 8:15; 11:34; and elsewhere). Nevertheless these are wiser than those who are double-minded." The rest of this number elaborates and illustrates this thought. Does this mean that we should always say exactly what we think? We have all known individuals who prided themselves on this practice, and they are likely to have been very disagreeable people. Does it mean that we should always do just what we feel like doing? Does it mean that we should not teach our children to observe good manners whether they feel like being polite and considerate or not? The answer to all these questions is, "No." We are taught in our doctrines that reformation of our outward conduct must precede regeneration. But the motive in the effort must be the motive of obedience to the Lord, not the motive of being socially acceptable. When we find that our pleasant words and kindly deeds are not sincere expressions of our inner thought and feeling, our duty is not to change our words and deeds but to set to work to change our thoughts and feelings. For we read in @AE 394[3]:

"When a man does and speaks what is good, true, sincere, and just, for the sake of self and the world he does and speaks them from self, because from the external man without the internal; and such deeds or works are all evil, and if heaven is regarded in them they are meritorious [i.e., self-righteous], and all such are iniquitous." But Swedenborg adds: "In this world no one can determine whether works are from the Lord or from man, since in external form the two kinds appear alike, but they can be distinguished by the Lord alone, and after man's life in the world their origin is disclosed."

The Lord saw the hearts and minds of the scribes and Pharisees.

He had the right to utter the condemnation. We have the right to judge the outward acts of other people but not their motives. And as to our own, we can only strive to keep ourselves in a state sensitive to searching and correction by the Lord's truth as it comes to us in the Word. So we pray that the Lord's will may be done in the heavens of our souls and thence in the earth of our outward lives. This is the ideal we set up as our goal.

