
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The children should be told who the scribes and Pharisees were and led to see the meaning of verses 33 and 34. The teacher might read as an illustration the story of the Pharisee and the publican from Luke 18:9-14.

---
When the Lord was on earth, the good people welcomed Him and listened eagerly to all He had to tell them about the right way to live, because they wanted to do right.

You know that when you are feeling like being good, you ask your parents all kinds of questions and listen to what they tell you and understand it; and if you will think back a little, you will realize that those are the times when you are happiest. Isn't it too bad that we are not always like that?

But you know that there are times when you don't like to hear what your parents say to you and don't want to understand it. These are times when you are feeling like having your own way and doing something you want to do whether it is right or not.

So when the Lord was on earth, there were many people who did not want to listen to Him and who refused to try to understand what He told them, because they were used to having their own way and did not want to change it. These people even said that the Lord's power came from Beelzebub, which is another name for the devil. If they had admitted that it was the power of God, they would have had to believe Him because they had always pretended to be especially religious.

The scribes were men who spent their lives studying and copying the Old Testament and teaching people the law.

And the Pharisees were a sect who pretended to be very strict keepers of the law.

Both these groups knew all the prophecies about the coming of the Messiah. You would think they would have been the first to welcome the Lord when he came.

But they had become used to having everybody look up to them, and they could not bear to have the people turning to anyone else for instruction.

So they tried in every way to prove that Jesus was not the Messiah.

They said His power came from the devil instead of from God.

They knew the Scriptures, but they covered up their real meaning with their own ideas.

They were like a person who covers up a candle so that it can give no light.

What complaint was made by the Pharisee who invited the Lord to dinner? What did the Lord tell nim ?

The Pharisees were very careful to pay their tithes or dues to the temple. What did the Lord say they had overlooked?

Of what did He accuse the lawyers?

We should always listen when our parents are trying to tell us what is right, and be willing to see and understand what is true instead of just seeing what we want to see. Then the eyes of our souls will be "single" — which means pure — instead of evil. The truth which the Lord gives us is like a light by which we see how to live. We should not want to cover it up as the scribes and Pharisees did. This is what verse 33 is saying to us.

Then let us read the verse which follows it in the Bible. [Read Luke 11:34.] You know that we all say "I see" when we mean "I understand."

The verse means that if we keep our understanding clear and pure, our minds will have light.

But if we let selfishness cloud the eye of our minds, we cannot see what is right.

