
=== Adult

Each parable in the chapter might furnish material for the whole discussion period, but it will be better to treat them all briefly, tying them together with the realization that they form a series on the development of heaven within us, from the first sowing of the seed to the final ingathering.

A parable is a story which has a lesson within it. When we talk to little children, we instinctively put things we wish to teach them in story form — we do not expect them to understand abstract statements. In the eyes of the Lord we are all children. The most logical and well—trained finite mind can grasp only a little of the Lord's truth. "For my thoughts are not your thoughts ... saith the Lord." Yet the Lord's thoughts are expressed in language which we can grasp, for in the Word they are ultimated in the things of nature and of our daily life. He speaks to us constantly, as we speak to little children, in concrete forms which we can grasp because they are part of our experience. The Lord never leaves anyone without the means of salvation. The simple stories which He told to the multitude would remain in their minds. If the time ever came when they really wished to learn more of the Lord, the stories could be recalled from their memories and they could be given to see their meaning. So it is with each one of us. We learn stories of the Word in childhood when they are nothing but stories to us. But because in their external form they are easily understandable, they remain in our memories and later, when we develop a desire for spiritual understanding, the Lord can enlighten us through them.

The familiar parable of the sower is simple and striking in its outer form. The knowledge that in the Holy Land in the Lord's day seed was sown broadcast enables us to understand the details of the literal story. The wayside was not like our waysides, full of wild vegetation: it was the hard, trodden paths across the fields. The rocky ground was the ground where rock came almost to the surface, with only a thin covering of earth. The thorny places were corners which had been allowed to run wild. As the Lord sat in the boat looking at the multitude gathered before Him on the shore, He saw their hearts and minds with their varying conditions of receptivity, and He was speaking of Himself when He said, "Behold, a sower went forth to sow." The seed, as He later told His disciples, is "the word of the kingdom," the divine truth which He wished to plant in their minds. Every word which proceeded out of His mouth was like a seed, concealing within it a germ of living truth which, if rightly received and cared for, would grow into a plant bearing fruit "unto life eternal." He had told the tempter, "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." Later He would call Himself the "living bread which came down from heaven." As He spoke to the multitude, He perceived the state of each one in it, saw the seed He was sowing broadcast falling into the minds of those before Him, and knew what would happen to it with each one. In the different kinds of ground in His parable, He was painting a picture of what He saw.

In our chapter there are seven parables, all about the kingdom of heaven. Why so many? Swedenborg tells us that the Lord's purpose in creation was "a heaven from the human race." It is essential, then, that men should know what heaven is and how to attain it. So from the beginning the Lord has told us about the kingdom of heaven in every way which could reach our understanding and appeal to our wills. It is not His fault if we are blind and deaf to His teachings. The seven parables present seven pictures which portray the beginning and the growth of the kingdom of heaven, which the Lord elsewhere tells us "is within you."

We have seen that the parable of the sower teaches how the seed is sown and received. The next parable, that of the wheat and the tares, points out that good seed is not the only seed sown in our minds, that evil spirits seek to sow seeds of falsity while we "sleep" — in states when we are not awake to spiritual realities — and that we cannot always distinguish between good and evil in their beginnings. When we cannot, both truth and falsity must grow in us and bear fruit before we can be sure of their quality. "By their fruits ye shall know them."

The parable of the mustard seed is one of encouragement. We need encouragement when we are trying to live a heavenly life, for as we go on, we see so many "tares" in ourselves, and so little "wheat"! But the Lord tells us that every little beginning we make has the power to grow and expand into a veritable tree. This parable is especially fulfilled when we come into the other world where all our beginnings of heavenly life are forever increased.

The fourth parable, that of the leaven, takes us another step in spiritual development. Leaven, which was a piece of old sour dough, is a symbol of falsity. The Lord told His disciples to "beware of the leaven of the Pharisees." But leaven is made to serve a use. It sets up fermentation in bread dough which causes the bread to become light and digestible as the gases are expelled. So falsity is used by the Lord to set up a fermentation in our minds so that we may recognize and expel our evils and "digest" the truth. Spiritual combats or temptations are fermentations in the spiritual sense (@AC 7906). To the church in Pergamos, whose danger was that they had there the doctrine of Balaam and the Nicolaitans, the Lord said, "To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna." (Revelation 2:12)

These first four parables the Lord spoke to the multitude. The last three He spoke to the disciples alone. They picture states of heavenly living which only those who have "continued" with the Lord in temptations are able to experience. The fifth pictures the kingdom of heaven as a treasure hid in a field. Those who have endured long enough to realize something of the genuine happiness of spiritual living become willing to give up their own ways for the sake of gaining the Lord's way of life — the field — in which that treasure is hidden.

The sixth parable sums up this treasure in one "pearl of great price," for which the merchant who discovered it was willing to sell everything else. Swedenborg tells us that pearls represent "knowledges of good and truth" (@AE 1044) and that the one "pearl of great price" is "the acknowledgment and knowledge of the Lord" (@AR 916). In the latter number he also tells us, "the knowledge of the Lord is the universal of all things of doctrine and thence of all things of the church." The realization of this fact does not come early in our Christian experience. It is rather the culmination of a long life of effort to learn the Lord's truth and to live the spiritual life. But when we do come to this realization, everything else will seem insignificant in comparison with it.

The final parable pictures the close of life when the net is full when all the experiences, good and bad, of a lifetime are gathered up and examined in the light of that final holy state of love to the Lord, and the bad are rejected and the good carried forward to be developed to eternity in the new life of heaven. We should note that "end of the world" [KJV] is a mistranslation. The Greek words mean "consummation of the age." Nowhere does the Word speak of the destruction of the material universe.

The final incident of the chapter emphasizes the whole teaching that the prime essential for receiving heavenly blessings is acknowledgment that the Lord Jesus Christ was not a finite man but what He claimed to be, "Emmanuel, God with us."

