
=== Notes for Parents

In our chapter for today we are told that the Lord always spoke in parables (verse 34), and the Lord Himself gives us the reason in verses 11 to 15. We have tried to give the children this reason in a form which they can understand. In the Lord's sight we are all children, very ignorant and often very willful and intentionally deaf to His clear teachings. So He tries to reach our minds with stories so simple and concrete that they will stay with us as stories until we wake up to our need of their lessons.

There are seven parables in our chapter — all about the kingdom of heaven — and if we read them thoughtfully, we shall see that they form a series showing us how this kingdom is developed. We are told in Luke 17:21 that the kingdom of heaven is within us. This means that if we are to live in heaven when we die, we must develop heavenly life within us while we are in this world.

The beginning of the heavenly kingdom within us is the sowing of the seed. We must learn the truths of the Word. Every seed of truth that is sown in our minds is like the mustard seed which has within it the capacity of growing into a great sheltering tree, but we know well that all the seeds we take into our minds do not take root and grow. Sometimes our minds are hard, sometimes they are shallow, sometimes they are so full of selfish thoughts that the truth is choked out. And then there are the tares, false ideas we have which look like the truth to us and which take a long time to show their real character. And we need to be tried and purified by the experience of temptation, as yeast in our bread dough ferments and lightens the heavy mass.

All four of these parables the Lord spoke to the multitude, for they picture the first steps which everyone must take before he can become a true follower of the Lord. But afterward He took His disciples aside and gave them further parables. If we become disciples, we can understand more than the multitude. The worldly man cannot even think of heavenly knowledge as a treasure, or of the understanding and worship of the Lord as a pearl of great price worth the sacrifice of all his natural, selfish ambitions. And as the last parable in the chapter points out, it is this very choice of the Lord or self, made over and over again, day by day, which will determine our eternal happiness or unhappiness. The choice is not something we can safely put off. We should know that the phrase "end of the world" which we find in this chapter [KJV] is not a correct translation of the original Greek. The phrase should read "consummation of the age." Our judgment is not put off to some future destruction of this material world, but comes when our individual life here is finished.

The last few verses of our chapter are more closely knit to the series of parables than we might at first think. The people of Nazareth did not benefit by the Lord's presence among them because they persisted in thinking of Him as just a man like themselves. Many think of Him so today, refusing to consider all the testimony of the Scriptures and of history to the fact that He was no finite man, but Emmanuel - "God with us." The pearl of great price is really the acknowledgment that Christ is God Himself. This makes His every word the truth itself and obedience to His commands the one sure way to heaven.

