
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Intermediate: What happened on Palm Sunday? the Lord's triumphal entry 

Junior: Why had the Lord come to Jerusalem? to observe Passover

Junior: What new feast did the Lord establish as He ate His last Passover? Holy Supper

Primary: What did He say one of His twelve disciples would do? betray Him

Primary: What did each one ask? Is it I?

Primary: Which one betrayed the Lord? Judas Iscariot

Junior: How did Judas betray Him? with a kiss

Junior: What did all the disciples do when the Lord was captured? fled

Primary: What had the Lord told Peter he would do? deny Him

Primary: Did Peter think he would deny the Lord? no

Primary: Did he do it? yes — three times

Primary: What made him remember what the Lord had said? cock crowed

Junior: Before whom was the Lord first tried? Caiaphas, the high priest

Junior: Who had to pronounce the final sentence? Pilate, the Roman governor

Junior: What choice did Pilate give them? to free Jesus or Barabbas

Junior: How was the Lord put to death? crucifixion

Junior: What was done with His body? placed in a new tomb hewn in rock

Junior: How did they try to guard against His resurrection? sealed tomb, set guard

Intermediate: What do the bread and wine in the Holy Supper represent? the Lord's divine love and wisdom

Senior: What does the cross mean to us? a sign that evil and falsity have no real power against goodness and truth

== EASTER — Matthew 28

In the younger classes the teacher should start with a brief review of the Palm Sunday lesson and then tell the children as simply as possible the story of the last week of the Lord's life on earth. He spent the first two days of the week teaching in the temple, but at night He went out of the city to Bethany, the home of His friends Mary and Martha and Lazarus. On Thursday evening He went into the city again and celebrated the Passover feast with His disciples. It was at this feast that He instituted the Holy Supper, which in the Christian Church takes the place of the Passover. After supper He went out to the Garden of Gethsemane to pray, and it was there that the crowd, led by Judas, seized Him. He was tried before the high priest, before Herod, and finally before Pilate, the Roman governor. No fault could be found in Him except by the use of false witnesses, but they demanded His death, and on Friday He was crucified. This review of events should be given in full to the Juniors but more briefly to the younger ones.

