
=== Intermediate

The general correspondence of the vision, particularly as to the recurrence of light in all its details, should be stressed. The young people should be urged to read this chapter often and to learn to think about the Lord as He is pictured in it. Call their attention to the fact that, although John recognized Him as the same person who had been his master and his friend in the world, he now saw Him as a glorious being, the alpha and omega, God reigning in heaven.

The apostle John was called "the beloved disciple." To him was given to write not only the Gospel of John but also three letters and the book of Revelation. He outlived all the others. Forty days after the resurrection the disciples saw the Lord ascend into heaven. This is told in Luke 24:50-53. After the ascension the apostles went out, as the Lord had commanded them, to preach the Gospel to all the world. Their dispersion was hastened by the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple at the hands of the Romans in A.D. 70. Asia Minor then became their principal field of activity, and there groups of Christians were formed into churches. John seems to have been leader of the church at Ephesus, and in his old age, as the only survivor of the twelve, was doubtless looked upon as the head of the Christian Church. In one of the persecutions of the Christians he was banished to the island of Patmos in the Aegean Sea, where he had the vision recorded in the book of Revelation. This book is also called the Apocalypse, the Greek word for "revelation."

The Old Testament is composed of the Law and the Prophets.

So is the New Testament, the Gospels constituting the Law and the book of Revelation the Prophets. The other books of the New Testament, like the books of the Old which were included as Sacred Writings, are not part of the Word (not having an inner sense), but are valuable and interesting as history.

John was "in the spirit." His spiritual sight was opened to see "the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter." The vision was like a mighty symbolic moving picture enacted before his eyes. Swedenborg tells us that the substance of the spiritual world is not inert like material substance, but is immediately responsive to spiritual forces, so that everything there takes on at once an outward form corresponding to the affections and thoughts of the angels or spirits or devils.

John's vision began with an appearance of the Lord to him.

He recognized the master he had known in the world; yet the accompaniments were those of deity, and John fell at His feet as dead. And the words spoken left no doubt that this was the creator Himself as well as the master whom John had known. In the New Church we accept this as our vision of the Lord. We do not look beyond Jesus to some more powerful and more terrible God. The Lord says to us, as to John, "Fear not; I am the first and the last."

John's vision gives us a picture to hold in our minds when we think about the Lord and when we pray to Him. The predominant feature of the picture is brightness — the golden lampstands, the stars, the eyes as a flame of fire, the feet like fine brass, and the countenance "as the sun shineth in his strength." We get the impression of a human form, but so bright that we can scarcely bear to look at it and cannot do more than glimpse its details. The correspondence throughout is to divine truth, except that the golden girdle or belt pictures divine love which binds all together, and the golden lampstands the love of divine truth which makes people of our age into a church. The two—edged sword is a picture of divine truth defending good and destroying evil.

The succeeding visions in the book of Revelation are concerned first with the condition of the church in the world and in men's minds and hearts — conditions which beset it and which eventually destroyed it in the final judgment. Their second concern is the way in which the Lord would build up a new church. The book of Revelation has been called the "charter of the New Church." But we must remember that everything that is said in the Word about the church in general has an application to our own individual lives also, and that each of us has within himself the evils which are pictured, and must fight them and try to grow into a true church.

