
=== Notes for Parents

The book of Revelation has always been a challenge to the Christian Church. Even people who scoff at everything supernatural cannot quite deny its power. For it does not read like something anyone would or could "make up."

It is recognized as prophecy, and many attempts have been made to connect one or another war or disaster or other great historical event with some one of its striking pictures. In the first verse of the book John tells us that it speaks of the things "which must shortly come to pass," and in Revelation 1:19 he is told: "Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter."

John was "in the spirit." His spiritual eyes were opened to see the hearts and minds of the people of the Christian Church as they would appear in the searching light of divine love and wisdom. What he saw was like a great moving picture portraying in marvelous symbols the process of judgment.

And first he saw the Lord, the same master he had followed in the world and had seen transfigured once long before. But now the glory is so great that John falls at His feet as dead. And now the Lord can tell him plainly, "I am the first and the last." Jesus Christ risen and glorified is God Almighty. There is no other God.

We see many paintings of Christ, but we know that they are all merely the artists' ideas of what He may have looked like. No likeness painted when He was on earth or by one who saw Him then has come down to us. Why? Because we are not intended to dwell on the thought of Him as one who walked the roads of Palestine centuries ago. We are to think of our living, present Lord. The Lord's last words to His disciples in the Gospel of Matthew were:

"Lo, I am with you always, even to the close of the age."

And we can see Him with our minds. People sometimes ask, "How ought I to think of God when I pray to Him?" The Lord Himself gives us the answer in this first chapter of Revelation. We may think at first that it is a strange picture which is given us, but it is just what we should expect: one "like unto the Son of man," one whom we can imagine walking among us doing and saying the things we find in the Gospels, and yet glorified, surrounded by light, with stars in His hand and a sharp, two—edged sword of absolute divine truth coming from His mouth. The sword destroys what is evil and false, but it defends and protects all that is pure and good.

