
=== Primary

Speak of John, the apostle whom the Lord loved best, and tell the children how, when John was a very old man and had been driven away from his church and sent to a lonely island, the Lord Jesus whom he loved appeared to him one Sunday in a beautiful vision. The children should distinguish between the two Johns and be told the relation in time of the book of Revelation to the Gospel story which we have been studying. Make the connection between John's vision of the Lord and the story of the transfiguration. Have them notice how everything in this vision is a form of brightness and tell them that light is a picture of the Lord's truth which shows us the way in our lives. Read them Revelation 1:12-16 and suggest that this forms a beautiful thought about the Lord to keep in their minds when they pray.

Not long ago we had a story about how the Lord took His three closest disciples up on a high mountain and let them see a wonderful vision. Do you remember about it? One of those three disciples was John — not John the Baptist, but the John through whom the Lord wrote the Gospel of John.

Do you remember how the Lord looked to the three disciples at the transfiguration?

What three disciples saw Him transfigured?

Many years later the same John had a similar vision.

John was probably the youngest of the twelve apostles, and he lived on for a great many years after the Lord's death and resurrection. He was faithful to the Lord and went about telling people the good news about Him. Many people believed what he told them and were baptized, and Christian churches were started in several places. When John was an old man, he had charge of seven of these churches in Asia Minor, which was north of the Holy Land. The rulers at the time of our story, like the scribes and Pharisees, were trying to destroy the Christian faith.

John was now an old man, and had been banished by his enemies to the island of Patmos.

On what day of the week did John have the vision recorded in the book of Revelation?

John was "in the spirit."

This means that his spiritual eyes and ears were opened. What did he hear first?

Then whom did he see?

Can you describe how the Lord looked?

What did John see around the Lord?

What did the Lord have in His right hand?

What did He say about Himself?

What did He tell John the stars and the lampstands meant?

For whom did He give John messages?

He also told John to write down all he saw and heard.

What he wrote this time is the last book of our Bible, which is called Revelation. This means a revealing of hidden things. It is often also called the Apocalypse, which is the Greek word meaning the same thing.

