
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: Of what two Johns do we read in the Gospels? John the Baptist, apostle John 

Junior: Through which one was the Gospel of John written? the apostle

Junior: What happened to Jerusalem after the Lord's death? it was destroyed

Junior: Where were the first Christian churches started? Asia Minor

Junior: What other books in the Bible were written through John? three letters, Revelation

Junior: Where was John when the Revelation was given him? Isle of Patmos

Primary: What did John hear first? great voice like a trumpet

Primary: What did he first see when he turned? seven gold lampstands

Primary: Who stood in the midst of the seven golden lampstands? the risen Lord

Primary: How did the Lord appear? dressed in long robe ...

Primary: What did He have in His right hand? seven stars

Junior: What did the Lord say about Himself? I am alpha and omega

Junior: What did He say the seven lampstands and the seven stars were? churches/angels

Junior: What did He tell John to do? write down the vision

Intermediate: Why are there so many mentions of light in this vision? to show power of divine truth

Intermediate: What does the golden girdle or belt represent? divine love binding all together

Senior: What does this vision teach us? how we should "picture," i.e., think of, the Lord

== THE MESSAGES TO THE CHURCHES — Revelation 2; 3

There are some general facts concerning John's messages to the seven churches which can be presented to all but the youngest children. These have to do with the similarities of all the messages: 
(1) Each picks out a particular feature of the vision of the Lord; 
(2) Each commends the church for what it is doing that is good; 
(3) Each rebukes the church for its particular evil and shows what the resulting punishment will be if the evil persists; 
(4) Each offers a special promise if the evil is put away; 
(5) Each closes with the words, "He that hath an ear, etc.," leaving the church free to choose whether it will obey or not.

