
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What feast did the Lord celebrate during His last week on earth? Passover

Junior: What did this feast commemorate? release from Egyptian slavery

Junior: What new feast did He institute at that time? Holy Supper

Junior: What does this Christian feast commemorate? redemption from slavery to evil

Primary: Who betrayed the Lord? Judas Iscariot

Junior: Before whom was Jesus first tried? the high priests

Junior: Of what did the high priests declare Him guilty? blasphemy

Primary: To whom was He sent to be condemned? Pontius Pilate

Junior: What did Pilate think of Him? found no fault in Him

Junior: Why did he not release Him? wanted to satisfy the crowd

Junior: Whom did he release instead? Barabbas

Primary: What did Pilate's soldiers do to the Lord? mocked Him

Junior: Where was the Lord crucified? Golgotha

Junior: Who carried His cross to Golgotha? Simon of Cyrene (but see John 19:17)

Primary: What did the soldiers do with the Lord's garments? divided them among themselves

Primary: Who were crucified with the Lord? two thieves

Junior: What did the Lord's enemies tempt Him to do? come down from the cross

Junior: What happened in the temple at the time of His death? curtain tore in two

Junior: What did the centurion say? truly this man was son of God

Junior: Who asked Pilate for the Lord's body? Joseph of Arimathea

Junior: What did he do with it? laid it in new rock-hewn tomb

Junior: What women stayed near the Lord until His body was placed in the tomb? the two Marys

Intermediate: Why did the Lord allow Himself to be put to death? to show that evil is really powerless against good

Senior: What is pictured by the parting of the Lord's garments? picking and choosing from the Word what we want to believe

== THE EASTER LESSON — Mark 16

The teacher may start with the fact that it is Easter and draw from the class their knowledge of what Easter means before taking up the lesson himself. The older classes are so familiar with the story that a very brief review of it will be enough to begin with.

