
=== Adult

Good discussion topics are: the reason why Peter, James, and John were chosen to witness the transfiguration, the reason why Moses and Elijah were seen with the Lord, and the meaning of Peter's suggestion of the three tabernacles or booths and the answer to it.

---
Again the Lord goes up into a mountain — this time a high mountain — taking with Him only Peter, James, and John. These three are favored above the other disciples and chosen to witness certain great scenes not only because of their close friendship with Jesus, but also because of their representative roles. The twelve disciples picture all the good and useful affections which build up the church in each one of us. In their capacity of receiving and transmitting the Lord's instructions they represent the church. Peter, James, and John picture the three great essentials: faith, charity, and the works of charity (@AE 820), or devotion to the Lord in mind, heart, and act. So they were chosen as symbolic of the church in the individual and in the world. The possession of these three essentials is necessary to the attainment of high spiritual experiences. When we are in high spiritual states — the high mountain — lesser affections are temporarily left behind, and our essential devotion to the Lord is taken by Him "apart" to be the recipient of such deep revelation as He sees to be needed for our future development. Note that this experience follows "after six days," the period of labor and struggle, like the six days of creation which must precede any spiritual attainment.

What was it that the three disciples saw? It was the real Christ, the divine humanity which had been taking form within the material shell — the body they knew — as the Lord lived out the life of the Word, fulfilling the Law and the Prophets. Because the soul looks out through the face, the face in the Word represents "the interiors." In the transfiguration the Lord's face "did shine as the sun," because the Lord's inmost was the divine love which warms our hearts. We are told that in the spiritual world the Lord appears as a sun, and that His love and wisdom are the sun of that world. And the Lord's garments picture the truth in which His love clothes itself; so they were seen to be white as the light.

The minds of the three disciples had been prepared by instruction and by struggles with temptation to see the Lord as the living Word. Only a few days previously Peter had declared Him to be the Christ, and after this declaration the Lord had begun to teach His disciples about His coming death and resurrection, the final means of His glorification. Swedenborg tells us that everyone sees the Lord differently, according to the preparation he has made in his mind. When we come into the other world, we cannot see spiritual and divine things for which we have laid no basis in this world. If we form our idea of God correctly by studying His Word and His life and attempting to bring our minds and lives into conformity with His truth, we shall sometime see Him as the three disciples saw Him on the mountain. Later we shall study also the vision of Him which John saw on Patmos (Revelation 1:12-16). In Revelation 22:4 it is said of the Lord's servants that in the Holy City "they shall see his face." The Psalmist says: "As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness." (Psalm 17:15) And we remember the blessing: "Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God." If we seek to cherish in our lives the three essentials for which Peter, James, and John stand, we shall see Jesus Christ transfigured in our minds even in this world and clearly with our eyes when we come into the world where the sight of the mind is likewise the sight of the spiritual body. Read the blessing which the Lord gave through Moses for the children of Israel, the people who were to preserve the written Word, in Numbers 6:22-27.

The Lord came into the world to live out the truth which was expressed in another form in the written Word. He was the Word made flesh. Swedenborg says of the transfiguration that "the Lord represented Divine truth, which is the Word, for the Lord, when He was in the world, made His Human Divine truth, and when He went out of the world, He made His Human Divine good by uniting it with the Divine Itself, that was in Him from conception" (@AE 594[2]). In order that the disciples might identify the truth which they saw lived out in Jesus with the truth as they had learned it in the Scriptures, they were permitted to see Moses and Elijah talking with Jesus. Elias is the Greek form of Elijah. In the minds of the people of that day the Scriptures were divided into two great parts, the Law and the Prophets. Moses stood for the Law and Elijah for the Prophets. Later the Lord would show some of the disciples more specifically how the Law and the Prophets taught of Him:

"And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself." (Luke 24:27) The vision we are considering was a glimpse of the same truth.

This vision is intended for us also. There is a tendency in the Christian world today to pass by much of the Old Testament Scriptures, to think of them merely as showing the ancient Hebrew concept of God and as being superseded by the New Testament. The vision of Moses and Elijah talking with the Lord at the transfiguration teaches us that interiorly the Old Testament Scriptures are also "settled in heaven" (Psalm 119:89), that they are forever and inseparably connected with the Lord and must always be read and studied if we are to know Him. This is one pertinent lesson which we should draw from our story, confirming the fact which we have already noted that through prophecy and quotation the Old and New Testaments are so inextricably bound together that it is impossible to understand one without studying the other. In the vision of the transfiguration we see that this external connection is the result of a living internal connection. And the further details of the story show us a still deeper reason.

Peter, recognizing that the vision taught the holiness of the Law and the Prophets, proposed to make three tabernacles or tents, one for the Lord, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. A tabernacle is a symbol of worship. In its internal meaning Peter's desire expressed the threefold character of true worship — worship in the heart, in the outward life, and in the thoughts — but in the letter it shows a confusion in Peter's mind. The Lord does not appear to answer Peter's proposal, but the rest of the vision is actually an answer. Read verse 5. The bright cloud is the letter of the Word illumined by divine truth within. The voice is divine love speaking, and the words are the seal of authority which divine love sets upon divine truth. "And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only." The lifting up of the eyes pictures the lifting up of the understanding. They were finally given to see that all they had seen in vision was in Jesus, in the familiar friend whom they knew and loved. And this is what we should come to see also. In Jesus Christ "dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily," says Paul (Colossians 2:9). Jesus is Jehovah our savior. Old and New Testament Scriptures alike treat of Him. He is the sole object of our worship.

As they came down from the mountain, the Lord told His disciples not to tell others of the vision until after His resurrection. The resurrection was to be the general "sign" for all the world. After it many would be ready to believe the report of the transfiguration who would not have believed it before. And as they came down, they were able to understand more clearly the mission and work of John the Baptist. We cannot stay on the mount of vision, but as we come down again to practical everyday life, we can see our past experience in new light.

