
=== Intermediate

More can be done in this class with Peter's declaration in chapter 16, as well as with all the details of the correspondence. The reason why the three disciples were not to tell others of the vision should be explained. See also on this point John 14:22-23.

---
For three years the Lord went from place to place through the Holy Land, crossing occasionally into the country on the other side of the Jordan, preaching, teaching, and healing. He made His home at Capernaum and much of His ministry was carried on in Galilee. He went to Jerusalem for the feasts, passing to and fro through Samaria. In all these journeyings the twelve disciples followed Him. They saw Him turn water into wine, still the storm, multiply the loaves and fishes, open the eyes of the blind, cleanse the leper, raise the dead, cast out devils. They listened to His instruction. Gradually He ascended in their thoughts, and they became convinced that He was really the Messiah.

So when He asked the question (Matthew 16:15) "Whom say ye that I am?" Peter could declare, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." This truth is the "rock" on which the Christian Church is founded, acceptance of which opens heaven. Read chapter 16, verses 18 and 19. That Peter himself was not the rock and the gatekeeper we should realize from the fact that a few verses later the Lord calls him Satan, when his natural, worldly ideas came to the fore. The Lord taught His disciples very clearly that our life in this world is important only as it affects our souls, but it was hard for them, as it is hard for us, to keep this truth in mind in the face of danger and temptation.

It is important to note that the story of the transfiguration follows this declaration of Peter's. It is the belief that Christ is God that opens the mind to see the inner beauty and glory of the Lord's life and its relation to the Law and the Prophets. These things are symbolized by the details of the transfiguration story. Going up into a mountain is the picture of raising our minds to a high level of thinking, close to the Lord. The face represents the inner character; so the Lord's face shining as the sun is the expression of divine love in His character. Garments in general are a picture of truths, which clothe our affections. The Lord's raiment white as the light pictures divine truth which clothed His every act and word. Moses and Elias — Elias is the Greek form of Elijah — represent the Law and the Prophets.

Peter was at first confused by the vision. A tabernacle or tent represents worship of a simple, childlike kind; so Peter's suggestion shows that he thought the vision must mean that Moses and Elijah and the Lord should all be worshiped. But he was immediately taught better. The bright cloud which overshadowed them pictures the letter of the Word with its internal meaning shining through. The voice speaking from it is its testimony to the Lord's divinity. And the fact that finally the three disciples "saw no man, save Jesus only" points to the final realization that "in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily," as Paul later said (Colossians 1:19).

The three disciples had been prepared for this vision by a long process of observation and instruction. Others had not been so prepared. So the three were commanded not to tell the vision until after the witness of the Lord's resurrection had made men ready to believe. This is something the Lord does for us, too. He often keeps from us truths which we are not prepared to receive and use rightly. To acknowledge a truth and refuse to try to live according to it is what Swedenborg calls "profanation," and profanation is one of the worst things we can do.

The real preparation for a true acknowledgment of the Lord begins with repentance. This is why John the Baptist had to be sent before the Lord. Both Elijah and John preached repentance. The prophecy referred to in the instruction the disciples had received from the scribes is found in Malachi 4:5, and in Matthew 11:14 we find that the Lord had already told them that John the Baptist was the fulfillment of this prophecy. John was not Elijah, but he came to do the same work.

The three disciples did not see this vision with their physical eyes. Their spiritual eyes were opened to see the Lord's inner nature. By the same process our minds can be opened to see Him truly both here and in heaven.

