
=== Junior

The correspondence of going up into a high mountain apart is important for this class. They need to begin to see that their everyday thoughts and feelings are apt to be very worldly and that they must look at them and judge them. Show them that if we wish to see the Lord as He really is, we must study the Word and make ourselves obey the Lord's commandments. Have the class look up the Scripture references given in their notes, and tie in the lesson with the story of John the Baptist and the Lord's baptism.

---
Where were the commandments given?

Where were the Blessings given?

Do you remember what going up into a mountain means? Today we have another famous story about a mountain.

What three disciples did the Lord take up into the mountain with Him?

There they saw the Lord transfigured, which means "changed in appearance." How was the Lord's appearance changed?

Whom did they see with Him?

Elias is the Greek form of the name Elijah. For the ancient Hebrews Moses represented the Law and Elijah the Prophets. So this was a vision to teach the disciples that the Lord was really the Messiah promised in the Law and the Prophets. They saw this vision not with their physical but with their spiritual eyes. They were seeing the Lord as He really is, as the angels see Him in heaven. What did Peter want to do?

Peter and James and John had followed the Lord in all His journeys and had seen Him do many wonderful things. They had become convinced that He really was the Messiah. Peter had already declared this belief. Read verses 13 to 18 of chapter 16. We know that the "rock" mentioned in verse 18 did not mean Peter himself but the great truth he had just declared, that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, God with us. It is this truth upon which entrance to heaven depends and which we must accept if we are to see the Lord transfigured. We see the Lord with our minds. If we study His life and follow His example, we can be like the three chosen disciples and see Him in His true glory and beauty.

But Peter was confused by seeing Moses and Elijah with the Lord in the vision. You remember that the tabernacle was built for worship of the Lord. So Peter's suggestion meant that just then he thought the vision was telling them that Moses and Elijah and the Lord should all be worshiped.

What happened while he was speaking to the Lord?

What did the voice out of the bright cloud say?

Afterward they saw the Lord only, and they realized that He alone was to be worshiped.

The Lord told them not to tell others of the vision, because the minds of most people were not prepared to believe that He was the Messiah.

What did the Lord tell the disciples about John the Baptist?

Look up Malachi 4:5-6. Elijah and John the Baptist were both sent to preach repentance and so to prepare people to receive the Lord. The Lord had told the disciples before that John the Baptist was the fulfillment of the prophecy of Malachi (Matthew 11:14), but they had forgotten it.

