
=== Notes for Parents

The word transfiguration means literally a "change of face." We can easily see why this name is given to the vision in our chapter.

The three disciples chosen to see this vision were the Lord's three closest followers. He could give them instruction and experiences for which the others were not prepared. But our lesson shows us how far even they were from understanding what He gave them. If you have read chapter 16 with the children, you know that Peter, at least, had expressed his belief that Jesus was "the Christ, the Son of the living God." It was this belief which was the rock on which the Lord said His church was to be founded. And now Peter sees the Lord in the light of His divine glory, and yet, because Moses and Elijah were seen talking with Him, Peter's first impulse is to worship all three — a tabernacle is the symbol of worship.

Peter's impulse was corrected immediately by the voice from heaven and the appearance of the Lord alone. Yet there was still a question in the minds of the three disciples. The vision of Elias — Elias is the Greek form of Elijah — made them think of the prophecy in Malachi 4:5. The Lord answered this question, too. John the Baptist was not, of course, a reincarnation of Elijah (read John 1:21), but he was nevertheless the fulfillment of the prophecy. Jesus had already told the disciples this (Matthew 11:7-15), but they had forgotten it.

To the disciples Moses stood for the Law and Elijah for the Prophets. It is for this reason that they were seen by the disciples talking with the Lord. After His resurrection the Lord was to show His disciples the things which were written of Him "in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms" (Luke 24:44), and we may well imagine that then the three disciples remembered the vision they had had on the high mountain and understood it better. But we must realize that there is a great deal in the Gospels that the disciples could never understand, for they were men like ourselves, limited by their education and background, and the Gospels were given by the Lord Himself by inspiration in words in which men and women for all time would find ever deeper meaning.

Today we know, for example, that the high mountain was a symbol of a very high level of thinking, that the Lord's face shone as the sun because He was inmostly God Himself, the "sun of our souls," that His raiment "white as the light" pictured the pure truth in which His every word and act was clothed, that Moses and Elijah appeared talking with Him because it is He who really speaks to us in all the Law and the Prophets, that the bright cloud which overshadowed the disciples is this same letter of the Word when something of its divine meaning shines through to us, and that the voice from heaven is the Lord's voice speaking to us in the Word, telling us to look to Him alone for the way of life.

