
=== Primary

This will not be a hard lesson to teach, although its meaning is beyond the reach of the little children. They will like the details of the story, and can be told that this is the way they may sometime see the Lord in heaven if they are good. Do something with the reason why only the Lord's closest disciples could see Him transfigured. Remind the children that the same voice from heaven saying almost the same words was heard at the time of the Lord's baptism. Tell them in a simple way why Moses and Elijah were seen with the Lord.

The Lord chose twelve men to be His special followers. He chose them because He saw that they wanted to learn what was really right so that they could be good, and He saw in each one of them some special quality which would be needed in His church. For these twelve men were to be sent out into the world, after the Lord went back to His place in the heavens, to start the Christian Church. In the Bible one who learned of the Lord is called a "disciple."

See if you can learn the names of the first four disciples the Lord chose. They were two pair of brothers: Peter and Andrew, James and John. Three of these four came to be closer to the Lord than all the others. They were with Him constantly, and He showed them and taught them things for which the others were not ready. Who were they?

Once these three were allowed to see a wonderful vision.

Where did the Lord take them to see it?

On the mountain they saw Him transfigured. Transfigured means "changed in appearance."

What did His face look like?

What was different about His garments?

Whom did they see talking with Him?

Do you remember who Moses was?

He was the one to whom the commandments were given at Mount Sinai, and the first five books of the Bible, which are called "the Law," were given through him.

Elias is the Greek word for Elijah. We have had lessons about both Moses and Elijah, and perhaps you remember that Moses was the man through whom the Lord gave the "Law" at Mount Sinai and that Elijah was a great prophet. The Jews all thought that Moses and Elijah were very great men. When Peter saw them with the Lord in the vision, he thought at first that all three must be equal.

What happened then?

What did the voice say?

Do you remember another time when the same thing was said?

The disciples fell on their faces in fear.

But when the Lord told them not to be afraid, they looked up again.

Were Moses and Elias still there?

What did the Lord tell them about the vision?

We had another lesson not long ago in which the voice from heaven was heard saying of Jesus, "This is my beloved Son." Do you remember what that other time was? While the Lord was in the world, He was often called the Son of God. When you are older, you will understand why.

