
=== Adult

The relation between Saul, Jonathan, and David is a good starting point. Then discuss the general meaning of the last journey of the ark and of Uzzah's act and its punishment. Finally, tie the lesson together with the relation between Saul, Jonathan, David, and Michal. Stress the fact that the natural never develops into the spiritual. There is a discrete degree between them.

---
Jonathan is in a sense the connecting link between Saul and David. His friendship for David has become the classic example in history. We all know the stories of the anointing of David by Samuel at Bethlehem, when the spirit of the Lord rested upon him, having departed from Saul, the story of David's soothing Saul by playing the harp, and of his victory over Goliath. Then follows the account of David's further victories and of Saul's growing jealousy when the people began to hail David instead of Saul as their hero, and the account of Saul's efforts to get rid of David and of Jonathan's success in saving him, of David's flight and long exile, and of his victories while in exile.

David, like Saul, represents the Lord's truth ruling, but it is the truth understood in a new and deeper way, an understanding based on internal instead of on external considerations. We recall that when Samuel first found Saul, Saul was looking for his father's lost donkeys; but David, when he was called, was tending his father's sheep. The donkey represents the affection for natural reasoning, the sheep the affection for innocence.

But David did not immediately supplant Saul, even after he had been anointed and the spirit of the Lord had passed from Saul to him. Long after we recognize the necessity of a deeper understanding of truth, the old natural habits of thought and feeling persist. Even after Saul was dead, his descendants still disputed the kingdom with David, and for a time the kingdom was actually divided. The division was essentially the same as the later division after the death of Solomon, the southern portion of the land accepting David as king — with Hebron as his capital — and the northern portion, together with the cross—Jordan country, adhering to Ishbosheth, a son of Saul. In this division, as later, the southern portion represents the inner affectional life, the northern portion the intellectual or thought realm, and the cross-Jordan country the external life. The meaning of this for us as individuals is not hard to see. David is anointed king when we realize that our first external understanding of the truth is not adequate to protect us against the attacks of evil and falsity, and that a deeper and more spiritual understanding is necessary. Saul dies and David becomes king in Hebron when, by trial and experience, our hearts have confirmed our allegiance to the new principle. But David does not become king over the whole land until we have rid ourselves of the habits of thought and conduct which sprang from our early superficial understanding.

After Jerusalem was taken, David determined to bring the ark there. In @AE 700 we are told that the three last stages of the journey of the ark picture "the progress of the church with man from its ultimate to its inmost; and this because such progressions are effected by means of Divine truth, which was signified by the ark; for the man of the church progresses from the natural to the spiritual, and through that to the celestial, and this continually from the Lord by means of His Divine truth; the natural is the good of life, the spiritual is the good of charity towards the neighbor, and the celestial is the good of love to the Lord."

The death of Uzzah is a striking incident. People often feel that Uzzah's deed was a perfectly natural impulse and well—meant, and did not deserve the punishment it received. It can be pointed out, even as to the literal sense of the story, that Uzzah the son of Abinadab, in whose house the ark had been kept for many years, must have been perfectly familiar with the laws concerning the handling of the ark and with the consequences which had in the past overtaken those who broke these laws. No impulse could have been strong enough to induce him to break the law if his reverence for the ark and belief in its power had been deep and sincere. His act was the expression of an inherent confidence in himself and distrust of the Lord's power for which he was really punished. Our impulses spring from habits of thought and feeling, and our habits are formed by our own choice and consent.

But there is a deeper lesson to be learned from the story of Uzzah. The ark represents divine truth. We have this truth in the Word, and we have ample evidence of its power in the history of the church and in the lives of individuals. There is not one of us who does not know that we should reverence the Word, should approach it only with the desire to learn how to live rightly, and should trust its power to accomplish its purpose. Yet how easily, when we are bent upon having our own way in some matter, when our good affections falter, as the oxen stumbled, we fall victims to the temptation to think that we know better than the Lord, to rely upon our own power and intelligence to think that we are doing the Word service by seeking natural explanations for the strange and wonderful occurrences recorded in its letter and trying to discover in the ideas and customs of the Hebrew people something on which they may rest. The attempt to steady the ark of the Lord, to substitute our own power for the Lord's power, our own intelligence for the guidance of the Lord's truth, leads to spiritual death. For spiritual life can be received only as we look to the Lord and trust in Him. When we think of the Word as merely a human book and try to find meaning in it on that basis, rejecting what cannot be naturally explained, we commit the sin of Uzzah. When we think of the Lord's teachings as in any way limited by His "times," we commit the sin of Uzzah. When we give more weight to the judgment of our contemporaries than to the Word of the Lord, we commit the sin of Uzzah. And there we also die "by the ark of God."

Jerusalem represents the Lord's spiritual kingdom, and Mount Zion in Jerusalem represents the inmost of the church. It was upon Mount Zion that David placed the ark in a tabernacle which he had erected for it. David's finally taking the stronghold of Zion from the hands of the Jebusites pictures the final overthrow of the idolatries which hold possession of the inmost heart. This can be accomplished only through a spiritual understanding of truth. The placing of the ark on Mount Zion represents the final uncompromising establishment of the commandments as the only laws to be tolerated in the heart. When this is done, David's kingdom is fully established and he can go out from Jerusalem to the conquest of the Philistines, the Moabites, and the Ammonites.

The incident recorded at the end of our chapter has also its important lesson for us. Saul's daughter Michal had been given to David by Saul at the time when David was living in Saul's court. If we read the story in 1 Samuel 18, we find that Saul hoped that David would be killed in trying to provide the dowry he demanded for Michal. After David went into exile, Saul gave Michal to another husband. While David was reigning in Hebron, he demanded the return of Michal, and Ishbosheth took her from her husband and sent her back to David (2 Samuel 3:13-16). Michal represents the natural affections which develop out of our first self-confident interpretations of the Lord's truth. They like to follow the easy path, attaching themselves to whatever opinion seems popular from time to time. It is significant that although Jonathan, the good element in the development from our first understanding, died with his father, Michal lives on and is still attractive to David. It is harder to overcome natural inclinations than natural reasonings. Michal's true character as the veritable daughter of Saul appears when she despises David and taunts him for his humility before the ark. Jonathan, although he had to die, served a good purpose. But no good ever comes of Michal: "Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death."

