
=== Intermediate

The lesson for this class should be centered around the meaning of this final journey of the ark to Jerusalem, the various incidents being taken up in the order of the journey. More will be done for this class in the next lesson with the meaning of Mount Zion and of the three kings.

After David's victory over Goliath, he was for a time a favorite with Saul, and David and Jonathan swore eternal friendship. Saul, however, soon realized that it was David whom the Lord favored, and he tried to get rid of him in various ways. Jonathan at first would not believe that his father hated David, but when he was convinced he warned David to flee. In exile David gathered a band of fighting men around him and won victories, always considering himself as the faithful servant of Saul and not making any effort to supplant him. But when Saul and Jonathan were both killed in a battle against the Philistines, the people in the southern part of the land — where David had been living — made him king, the people in the northern part setting up as king a son of Saul named Ishbosheth. David reigned in Hebron for seven and a half years. Then Ishbosheth's own captains murdered him and all the people accepted David as king. He took the city of Jerusalem from the Jebusites and made it his capital, reigning there for another thirty-three years, forty years in all.

The second book of Samuel tells the story of the reign of David.

Our lesson is concerned with his bringing the ark of the covenant from Kirjath-jearim — where it had been ever since the Philistines returned it — to Jerusalem, where he set it up in a new tabernacle or tent on Mount Zion, one of the hills within the city. At the beginning of this lesson we have the story of a punishment which seems out of all proportion to the crime committed. We might think it quite natural and right that Uzzah, seeing the ark shaken, should put forth his hand to steady it. But we must realize that even in the literal story, all the Jews knew about the ark and its power and how it was to be borne and handled. The ark would not have been shaken in the first place if it had been borne on the shoulders of the Levites as the law required, and Uzzah's act showed a lack of belief in the power of the ark and a self-confident sense of superiority to it. It is the same sort of feeling which prompts people today to say that, although the commandments were right and necessary at the time the Lord gave them, today He would give laws more in keeping with modern ideas of what is right and wrong. The real sin involved in this story is the failure to acknowledge that the laws of God are eternal and are not to be changed or interpreted to suit the desires of men. It is putting the opinions of men above the wisdom of God, and this leads to spiritual death. So Uzzah died there by the ark of God.

David's fear to bring the ark further after Uzzah's death is typical of our reluctance to go the whole way in obeying the commandments when we realize fully all that it involves. It took further experience of the blessings produced by the ark to remove David's fear. This time he took care to have the ark properly carried, and he himself accompanied it, singing, dancing, and offering sacrifices along the way (see 1 Chronicles 15:11 ff.)

We learn from 2 Chronicles 1:3-6 that the tabernacle which David pitched for the ark in the "city of David," which was the stronghold on Mount Zion in Jerusalem, was not the original tabernacle. The original tabernacle was at this time in Gibeon, and remained there until after the temple was built, after which we hear no more of it. A tent in the Word represents a state of worship from love.

David was a fighting king, who conquered all the enemies of Israel. The enemies of Israel represent our evils and the battles against them our struggles with temptation. When we are fighting our temptations, our central thought must be simple obedience to the commandments, and the tent or tabernacle is the childlike recognition of their importance which is necessary to us until the victory is won. When we are being tempted, we should not stop to reason with the tempter; we should simply obey the commandments because we really want to be good. You remember how the Lord, when He was in the wilderness, answered the devil each time with a simple quotation from the Scriptures.

At the end of our chapter we have the story of how Michal, Saul's daughter, was condemned to be childless because she despised David for dancing and singing before the ark as it was carried into the city. Michal had been given to David as his wife by Saul while David was still in the court of Saul. She pictures the kind of affection for the Lord which comes from our first natural, self-confident efforts to serve Him. This is not a humble and true love and cannot produce genuine "good fruit" in our lives. We shall perhaps understand this better when we study the difference in meaning between Saul, David, and Solomon.

