
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In speaking of the punishment of Uzzah, point out that sin is doing what we know to be wrong. The ark was the holiest thing the Jews had, and a sin against it was therefore the most serious sin of all. Have the children look up the references in Chronicles, and also Joshua 9:17, where Kirjath-jearim is named as one of the cities of the Gibeonites, and 1 Samuel 6:21 and 7:1-2, where the ark is taken to Kirjath-jearim. This will help to tie today's story in with other lessons they have had this year. See how much the children can tell about the ark.

---
Samuel told Saul that because of his disobedience the Lord had rejected him and would choose as the next king "a man after his own heart." Then the Lord sent Samuel to Bethlehem to anoint David, and the Bible tells us that after David was anointed, "the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul" and was with David instead.

You remember the story of how David killed the giant Goliath with his sling and a smooth stone from the brook. Before that victory Saul had made David his armor-bearer, and David and Jonathan had become sworn friends. David won victories for Saul, but when the people began to sing David's praises and to say that David's victories were greater than Saul's, Saul became jealous and tried to kill David. Jonathan saved David's life, but David had to go into hiding. Finally Saul and Jonathan were both killed in a battle with the Philistines and David was made king. At first he was accepted by only part of the people and had his capital in Hebron in the southern part of the land — you remember that Hebron had been Abraham's home — but after seven years, in which he continued to win victories, the people in the northern part of the country accepted him also. Then he took the city of Jerusalem from the Jebusites and made it his capital.

David's next thought was to bring the ark of God to Jerusalem.

Baale (= Judah) is another name for Kirjath-jearim. Kirjath-jearim was one of the cities which had belonged to the Gibeonite League; you remember the Gibeonites who came to make a peace treaty with Joshua.

How was the ark taken from Kirjath-jearim?

This was a violation of the law, for the ark should have been carried on the shoulders of the Levites. If it had been, it could not have been shaken as it was by the oxen, and Uzzah would not have been tempted.

What did Uzzah do when the oxen shook the ark?

What happened to him?

Can you see why his fault was so serious? It was because it showed that he did not really believe in the power of the ark to care for itself. This was something like Saul's attitude toward Samuel's advice, wasn't it? The things we do impulsively show what is really deep inside of us.

What was in the ark?

When people today think that the commandments are not really the Lord's laws for all people in all times, and that they need to be changed a little or explained in such a way as to suit conditions in the world, it is like Uzzah's putting forth his hand to steady the ark. The Lord knows what we need better than we do, and His laws do not change. They have just as much power to bring peace and happiness as they ever had.

Where did David have the ark taken after Uzzah's death? How long was it there?

What induced David to take it to Jerusalem finally?

In 1 Chronicles 15:11-15 we learn that this time the ark was carried according to the law.

What did David do as the ark was carried toward Jerusalem?

Who despised him for doing this?

What was her punishment?

Where did David put the ark in Jerusalem?

Read 1 Chronicles 15:1 and 2 Chronicles 1:3-6. We learn from these that the tabernacle which David pitched for the ark in Jerusalem was not the original tabernacle, which at this time was set up in Gibeon, one of the Levitical cities. It was still there in the early days of Solomon's reign, but no one knows what finally became of it. The real power in the tabernacle came through the ark, just as we can have power from the Lord only as we keep the commandments.

