
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson for this class might well be developed through a discussion of the attitude toward the ark of Uzzah, David, and Michal, pointing out at the end by way of summary the difference between Saul's son Jonathan and his daughter Michal. The place of the ark in Jerusalem will be considered further in a later lesson.

---
Our lesson today concerns the reign of David, the second of the three great kings of Israel. We have seen that Saul represents our first concept of divine truth when, as adults, we accept it as our ruling principle. This first concept is based largely on appearances and on confidence in our own judgment. One might think that Jonathan, who had so much more reliance on the Lord than his father had, should have been able to succeed him as king. But Jonathan, as Saul's son, represents a trust in the Lord based on external rather than internal experience. Such trust is not the kind we really need, although it can help us to maintain our faith until we are ready for a deeper and more spiritual reliance. Jonathan loved David from their first meeting, and the relation between David and Jonathan has come down through history as the outstanding example of true friendship. Jonathan saved David from the jealous rage of Saul and helped him to escape into temporary exile. But before David could come into the actual kingship, Saul and Jonathan both had to die. The kind of faith in the Lord which says, "I can see that the Lord has taken good care of me so far and I believe He will continue to do so," must give way to the kind of faith which says, "I know that whatever happens to me in this world, whether it seems good or bad, is permitted by the Lord to come to me for my spiritual welfare." Obedience to the Lord based on this kind of trust is represented by David.

The bringing of the ark to Jerusalem by David pictures the establishment of the commandments in the central place in our adult lives. The ark was never restored to its place in the original tabernacle after its capture by the Philistines. When it was sent back to the Israelites, it stopped first at Bethshemesh, and then it was taken to Kirjath-jearim — called in our chapter Baale of Judah (see Joshua 15:9) - and had been kept there ever since. Kirjath-jearim was a city a few miles southwest of Jerusalem. The original tabernacle at the time of our lesson had been moved to Gibeon, one of the Levitical cities, and was still there early in Solomon's reign; after that the Word gives us no further information about it.

David's first attempt to move the ark from Kirjath-jearim ended disastrously, because he neglected the proper method of transporting it. The ark was supposed always to be carried on the shoulders of the Levites, which pictures the fact that we should always support the commandments with the power of religious devotion. Instead of this, David had it placed upon a cart drawn by oxen, a picture of a system of thought powered by the natural good affections. There are many practical reasons for obedience to the commandments, which may be expressed in such maxims as "Honesty is the best policy"; but they are not adequate as motives. In the story the oxen shook the cart. Our natural affections often prompt us to question the validity of the commandments and to reason about them in a natural and worldly way. We try to find some natural reason — not divine authority — why they should in general not be discarded. This is Uzzah putting forth his hand to steady the ark. Such attempts are often well meant. They are natural; but what is natural is not always right, as we ought to know. Uzzah had every reason to know that the ark did not need steadying by him, but he did not really reverence it or believe in its inherent divine power. He considered his own strength greater than that of the ark. This was the sin for which he died, for reliance on self and the world is what leads to spiritual death.

The second time David moved the ark, he was careful to have it properly borne and to humble himself before it. This humility before the Lord is contrary to the inclinations of the natural man. Saul's daughter Michal represents these natural inclinations. Saul had given her to David as his wife while David was still in Saul's court. When David fled into exile, Michal was given by Saul to another of his servants, but she came back to David after he became king. This is a picture of the way in which our natural inclinations seek the easy and outwardly successful path. But our natural inclinations are not the affections which produce spiritual fruit because they despise the spiritual virtue of humility, as Michal despised David. "Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death."

