
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Do more in this class with the Prophets as a whole. Make connection with previous lessons through Isaiah and Jeremiah and later through Nebuchadnezzar. More will be done in the next lesson with Daniel as an individual; so the major part of the lesson time may be given to a discussion of the story in our chapter and its meaning — the final result of the love of dominion.

---
We divide the books of the Prophets into the "Major" and the "Minor" Prophets solely on the basis of the length of the books, those of the twelve Minor Prophets being very short. There were many prophets besides those who gave their names to books in the Bible. We have heard of some of them in our lessons: Nathan, Elijah, and Elisha. There were many others. Samuel — who was himself a prophet — established schools for the training of young men to be suitable for prophets, and we hear of these groups several times in the Bible story, especially in the time of Elijah and Elisha. Read 2 Kings 2:5-7, 15-18. These young men studied the law of the Lord and forms of worship, and followed certain orderly and temperate ways of life which would make them such that the Lord, if He chose, could use them as instruments when He wanted to speak to the people. We read in the Word also of false prophets who deceived the people by pretending to speak for the Lord when He had not spoken to them. But through the true prophets the Lord spoke many things which were for the times only and therefore not recorded in the Word. Those prophecies which He commanded to be written were for all men of all times. So the whole Word is our prophet, for in it are all the messages which the Lord wishes us to hear, and in His Second Coming the Lord has given us the means of understanding these messages as we come to need them. The books of the Prophets especially are mysteries to us without this help which the Lord has given the world through Emanuel Swedenborg.

There are four Major Prophets: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. Isaiah, we remember, lived in the time of king Hezekiah of Judah, and Jeremiah in the last days of Judah. The book of Lamentations, which follows Jeremiah in our Bible, was given through Jeremiah after he was carried away into Egypt. Ezekiel and Daniel prophesied in captivity. Ezekiel was a priest as well as a prophet.

To know about Daniel we should read Daniel 1:1-7. He and his three special companions were evidently young men of royal blood in Judah and were distinguished from the rest not only by their intellectual ability but also by their absolute faithfulness to the teachings in which they had been brought up before they were carried off to Babylon. Because of their faithfulness they could be completely protected by the Lord, and Daniel was given the power of interpreting dreams and also prophetic power. This was recognized by the kings of Babylon and resulted in the advancement of all four young men to high position in the kingdom.

Our story for today is a striking one, and is one of the well-known parts of the Bible. You may sometimes hear people say of a person who is persisting stubbornly in an obviously wrong course, "Can't he see the writing on the wall?" Belshazzar was the son of Nebuchadnezzar. He had apparently reorganized his father's kingdom under new lords who were his own favorites, and Daniel had been forgotten. Nebuchadnezzar had been a proud king. You remember that Babylon represents the love of dominion. The story to which Daniel refers in verses 18 to 21 of our chapter for today is told in chapter 4. But Nebuchadnezzar was willing to learn from his experience, and after he was restored to sanity he humbled himself before the God of Daniel, who had told him through Daniel what was to happen to him.

Belshazzar was not the wise man his father had been. Nebuchadnezzar had carried away to Babylon all the golden and silver vessels of the temple (2 Kings 24:13), but he had kept them with his treasures in the house of his own god. Now Belshazzar brought them out and profaned them by using them at his feast to add to his own importance and glory. The vessels of the temple represent knowledges of good and truth from the Word which contain the "wine" of spiritual truth and are given to enable us to worship and serve the Lord truly. When these knowledges are used selfishly — to "set us up" above others — we profane them. Swedenborg tells us a good deal about profanation, which is defined as knowing and acknowledging the truth and refusing to live according to it. We all do this to some extent, and there are different kinds and degrees of profanation. Belshazzar's act represents one of the most serious forms of profanation, which destroys spiritual life.

The handwriting on the wall presents a vivid picture in the letter.

The sudden appearance of the "fingers of a hand" and the strange words stay in our memories. It represents the plain condemnation from the Word of such profanation as Belshazzar's. It frightened Belshazzar because of its supernatural character, and his fear led to the reappearance of Daniel. Belshazzar rewarded Daniel for his ability to interpret the writing. But once the writing was interpreted, there is no record that Belshazzar tried to undo what he had done. And the appeal to Daniel and the reward given him did not save Belshazzar or his kingdom. There is an important lesson in this. No one is saved by what he does in a state of fear, because when we are frightened, we are not acting freely. After the fear is past, we fall back into the state which we have developed in ourselves by our free daily choices of right or wrong. We are in the end what we make ourselves by our whole life, and we cannot be changed in a moment.

We may know that afterward the vessels of the temple were put back among the royal treasures because later, in the first year of the reign of Cyrus the Persian, when the captives were allowed to return to the Holy Land, Cyrus gave them back the vessels of the temple. You may read this story in the first chapter of the book of Ezra, which is not one of the books with an inner sense but is very valuable for our knowledge of the return.

