
=== Junior

The Juniors have been told something about the difference between the Jewish canon of Scripture and the New Church canon, and this knowledge can here be carried a step further. They should also remember something about both Isaiah and Jeremiah. They may even have some recollection of Ezekiel's vision. Always get as much as you can from their own memories. The character of Daniel will be stressed more in our next lesson; so Belshazzar's sin and the interpretation of the writing should be the main lesson this time.

---
What is a prophet?

Why did the Lord send prophets?

What do we have to speak to us for the Lord?

We have learned that the part of the Jewish Bible called "The Prophets" contains the "Former Prophets," the books from Joshua through 2 Kings (except Ruth), and the "Latter Prophets," the books from Isaiah through Malachi (except Lamentations, which really belongs with the book of Jeremiah). We usually think of the first group as historical books, and of the second group as "The Prophets." These in common thought are again divided into the Major Prophets and the Minor Prophets. This is only because the first four are "full—length" books, whereas the last twelve are very short books. "Books" in Old Testament times were really parchment scrolls. Each of the four Major Prophets required a whole scroll, while the twelve Minor Prophets were all written on the same single scroll.

Who were the four Major Prophets?

When did Isaiah live?

When did Jeremiah live?

Where did Jeremiah die?

Jeremiah wrote the Lamentations after he was carried away to Egypt. The other two Major Prophets — Ezekiel and Daniel — also wrote in captivity, but Ezekiel had been a priest, and perhaps a prophet, before he was carried away to Babylon, and this is probably one reason why his book was included among the books of the prophets. Another reason may be that Ezekiel was more than once carried "in the spirit" back to Jerusalem to receive his visions. It was felt that it was very doubtful that a prophet could be inspired outside of the Holy Land. This is why Lamentations and also the book of Daniel are not in the Hebrew "canon" of Scripture. A "canon" is an ecclesiastical ruling or decision.

Daniel prophesied in Babylon. He was one of the young men of the royal household of Judah who were among the first to be carried away when Nebuchadnezzar conquered Judah. Read Daniel 1:1-7 to learn the beginning of Daniel's history, and then read the next few verses of that chapter to see how Daniel became a prophet. We have had the story of Nebuchadnezzar's image, and you will remember that when all the wise men and astrologers of Babylon could not tell Nebuchadnezzar what he had dreamed and what his dream meant, Daniel came and told him, and so he made Daniel one of the rulers of his kingdom. Chapter 4 tells of another dream of Nebuchadnezzar which Daniel interpreted, and how his interpretation came true. This is the story to which Daniel refers in verses 18 to 21 of our chapter for today. The king in our story is the son of Nebuchadnezzar, and he has forgotten his father's experience and has forgotten Daniel as well.

Who is this king?

What wrong thing did he do?

What happened which frightened him?

Whom did he first call in to tell him what the writing meant?

Could the wise men of Babylon help him?

Who reminded him of Daniel?

What did he promise Daniel if he could interpret the writing?

What did Daniel say about this promise?

What were the words of the writing?

What did Daniel say they meant?

What happened to Belshazzar?

What happened to his kingdom?

So the Medes took over the kingdom immediately, just as Daniel had prophesied. Their next king after Darius was Cyrus the Persian (Daniel 6:28).

Perhaps you have noticed that when Daniel interprets the writing on the wall, he uses the word Peres instead of Upharsin; so you need to know that this is just a different form of the same word. The U in Upharsin means "and" in the Chaldean and Hebrew languages, and putting this sound before a word often changes the sound of the first letter of the word; here it makes the difference in sound that there is between "p" and "ph." The changes in the last part of the word are also easily understood if one has studied the language. The Chaldean language, which the people of Babylon used, was almost the same as Hebrew.

