
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class try to see that the children know what a prophet is and why the prophets were sent; remind them who the Major Prophets were and why they were called "Major." Then spend the rest of the lesson time on the story. Try to teach the children the names of the four Major Prophets.

---
Do you remember what a prophet is? It is a person who speaks for the Lord. You have heard about some of the Lord's prophets: Samuel, Nathan, Elijah and Elisha, and Jeremiah. Whenever the people were doing wrong, the Lord sent a prophet to rebuke and warn them, because the Lord loves us all and is always trying to keep us from doing what will hurt us, and to show us the way to be really happy.

Some of the prophets, like Nathan and Elijah and Elisha, only spoke the Lord's words, but others were commanded by the Lord not only to speak them but to write them down, because their messages were meant for everyone — even for us today.

At the end of the Old Testament you will find four long books by prophets followed by twelve short ones.

There is another short one, which is called Lamentations, but this really belongs to the book of Jeremiah.

The four prophets through whom the four long books were written are called the "Major" Prophets.

The prophets through whom the twelve short books were written are called the "Minor" Prophets.

This is just because of the difference in length of the books. See if you can learn the names of the four Major Prophets.

Isaiah lived in the day of king Hezekiah of Judah.

When did Jeremiah live?

Ezekiel and Daniel were both among the people carried off by the king of Babylon, and they prophesied in captivity in Babylon.

But Daniel became a very great man in the land of Babylon.

This was because he always obeyed the Lord and the Lord could protect and enlighten him.

Who was king of Babylon at the time of our lesson?

What did he do that was wrong?

What happened which frightened him?

To whom did he first go to find out what the writing meant?

Why was Daniel called in?

What did he say the writing meant? His prophecy came true immediately.

Do you know why the Lord does not send prophets to us today? It is because He has given us the Word, in which we can read all the things He wants us to know.

