
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Draw as much as possible upon the knowledge which the pupils themselves have of the general facts concerning the Major Prophets. It is good for the young people to find out how much or how little they know about the Bible. The chapter assigned is a valuable one for them, and the lesson can be easily brought out by contrasting Belshazzar with Nebuchadnezzar. The teacher should read all the pupils' notes from the Junior level up for an adequate background.

---
The four Major Prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. We call them "Major" only because their books are longer than those of the twelve Minor Prophets which follow them in our Bible. All the prophets were equally inspired by the Lord, but some prophesied over longer periods than others. Not all the prophets were commanded to write down and preserve their prophecies, although in some cases — such as those of Nathan, Elijah, and Elisha — many of their words were recorded in the course of the story. Many of the prophets are not known to us at all by name. In fact, all of the Word — whether or not we know through whom it was given — is prophecy because it is for all men of all time, and so we may think of the whole Word as our prophet, who instructs us and blesses or warns or condemns us, according to our daily choices.

In the letter, the books of the Prophets are often obscure and in places apparently meaningless to us. Yet with the assistance of the writings of the Second Coming we can find in them much instruction and help, and Swedenborg tells us that we should read all of them regularly because even those passages which are beyond our present experience bring us some light and help, for the angels who are with us as we read are understanding their spiritual meaning [see @AC 6333].

We have some personal knowledge of Isaiah and Jeremiah from our study of the latter part of the history of Judah. Ezekiel and Daniel were also from Judah, but their prophecies were written in Babylon. Ezekiel was a priest, already a grown man when he was carried away, but Daniel was one of the young men of the royal family who were selected, at Nebuchadnezzar's command, and brought to Babylon sometime before the final captivity to be trained in the language and learning of the Chaldeans, the language of Babylon. Incidentally, this language was very much like the Hebrew. The words written on the wall in our story for today are Chaldean, and we might note that the word Peres which Daniel translates is just the basic word of which Upharsin is a grammatical form, the U merely meaning "and."

All the young princes of Judah received their instruction from the priests; so Daniel, even as a boy, was well versed in the religion of his own people, and he was one of those who chose to be faithful to it and who were not led away into idolatry after they went to Babylon. All the stories in the book of Daniel teach us this fact. His faithfulness to the Lord made it possible for the Lord to protect him and to give him the power to interpret dreams and to foretell the future.

We have had the story of Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the great image. You will remember that because Daniel was able to tell the dream and to interpret it, Nebuchadnezzar not only made Daniel ruler over the province of Babylon and governor over all his wise men, but he also recognized Daniel's God as a "God of gods, and a Lord of kings." The story about Nebuchadnezzar to which Daniel refers in verses 18 to 21 of our chapter for today is found in chapter 4. You remember that Babylon represents the love of dominion. Nebuchadnezzar was a great and, in general, a very wise king, but he also had the pride and hastiness which come with the love which his nation represents, and these for a time got the better of him. However, when he came to himself and was restored to his royal dignity, he was wise enough to accept the lesson which had been taught him, and his last statement in the Bible story (Daniel 4:37) is: "Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, all whose works are truth, and his ways judgment: and those that walk in pride he is able to abase."

The last words of this statement are a fitting introduction to our story for today. For Belshazzar, Nebuchadnezzar's son, did walk in pride. Nebuchadnezzar was a great enough man to be capable of humility before the Lord, but Belshazzar's pride did not hesitate to use the vessels of the temple of the Lord to minister to his own vanity. It is not hard to see what this act pictures. When we form too high an opinion of ourselves, we become anxious to prove that our word is law, and we may even become so filled with the idea of our own importance that we use our knowledge of the Word and of spiritual things — which is what the vessels of the temple represent — to make other people admire and flatter us. When we do this, the Lord cannot reach us by means of His Word and save us. Our spiritual death has become certain.

The sudden appearance of the disembodied hand which wrote upon the wall frightened Belshazzar, but neither he nor his wise men could interpret the writing. Then his wife — who represents such affection for truth as remained to him — remembered Daniel. But, although the king recognized that Daniel had told him the truth and gave Daniel the promised reward, he could not save himself. Daniel's prophecy was fulfilled that very night. Belshazzar was slain and Darius the Mede* took over his kingdom.

[*There is no historical record of a king called Darius the Mede (Daniel 5:31 [H.B. 6:1]) — also called "the son of Ahasuerus" (Daniel 9:1). -Editor]

This illustrates a point which Swedenborg makes more than once — that no one is regenerated in a state of fear or compulsion. We may be frightened or forced into checking an evil course of action, but our desire to pursue it is not at the same time changed. And when we come into the other world, if our ruling love is selfish, we shall choose to live in hell. Belshazzar committed profanation. Read carefully the quotation from Divine Providence which follows the Adult notes.

