
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Younger Children: What is a prophet? one who speaks for the Lord

Older Children: Why did the Lord send prophets to the people of Israel and Judah? rebuke, warn

Younger Children: What prophets do you remember who did not write books of the Word? Nathan, Elijah, Elisha, Ahijah

Younger Children: What is the difference between (1) "Major," and (2) "Minor" Prophets? (1) longer, (2) shorter

Younger Children: Who were the four Major Prophets? Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Daniel

Older Children: When and where did Isaiah live? Judah, Hezekiah's time

Older Children: When and where did Jeremiah live? Judah, time of Babylonian captivity

Older Children: Where did Jeremiah die? probably in Egypt

Older Children: Who wrote the book of Lamentations? probably Jeremiah

Older Children: Where was it written? Egypt

Younger Children: Where did Ezekiel and Daniel prophesy? in captivity

Older Children: What was Ezekiel's occupation? priest

Older Children: Where was he sometimes taken in vision? Jerusalem

Older Children: What power did the Lord give Daniel? to interpret dreams

Younger Children: Why was He able to give Daniel this ability? he was faithful to the Lord

Older Children: Who was king of Babylon when Daniel was first brought there? Nebuchadnezzar

Older Children: How did he happen to make Daniel a ruler in the kingdom? interpreted dreams

Older Children: Of what other well-known person in the Bible story does this remind us? Joseph

Older Children: Who followed Nebuchadnezzar on the throne of Babylon? Belshazzar

Younger Children: What great sin did he commit? profaned temple vessels

Younger Children: What happened that frightened him? hand writing on wall

Older Children: What were the words written on the wall? MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN

Older Children: What did Daniel tell him they meant? measured, weighed, divided

Younger Children: When was Daniel's prophecy fulfilled? same night

Younger Teens: What does Belshazzar's act represent? selfish use of spiritual knowledge

Older Teens: What does the writing on the wall represent? judgment from the Word


