
=== Notes for Parents

One of the best—known stories in the Bible is the story of how the lone young traveler Jacob slept one night in the open at Bethel and was given a wonderful dream of a ladder set up on earth whose top reached to heaven, and of the Lord at the top and angels ascending and descending upon the ladder. And in the morning Jacob vowed that if the Lord would prosper him and bring him safely home again, he would always serve Him.

Jacob's desire then was only to be spared to come home. Yet when he reached Haran, he immediately fell in love with his uncle's daughter Rachel and forgot all about going home. He stayed in Haran for twenty years. He became rich through serving his uncle, and by his two wives, Rachel and her sister Leah, and their handmaids, Bilhah and Zilpah, he had eleven sons and one daughter. This story is a picture of something which happens in the lives of many young people. They are brought up in good homes, taken to Sunday school and church, and given the religious principles they need to guide them through life. Perhaps they join the church. They mean to be faithful. But when they finish high school, they leave home for college or for some occupation. They fall in love and marry and take on the responsibility of providing for a growing family, and their minds and lives are so occupied with what seem the necessities of life in the world that they forget their early ideals.

But men have deeper and higher needs which the world cannot meet. Sooner or later the man or woman who has been rightly brought up remembers that this world is not his final home, and, like the prodigal son in the parable, says: "I will arise and go to my father." Our chapter today tells of Jacob's return, of his putting away the false ambitions and worldly satisfactions he has been striving for, and coming back to Bethel to fulfill his vow. Then he is ready to be reunited to Isaac and to inherit the land promised him by the Lord. In this story the Lord is telling each one of us that if we will only realize how unsatisfying the things of the world are and return home to Him, we shall be among those who hear Him say: "Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world."

