
=== Adult

An interesting study for the Adults is to trace the ancestry of the Canaanites and to identify them with the evil tendencies which we inherit from our earliest ancestry. The Lord's providence in making use of these tendencies to further our spiritual development is brought out by this story.

In the introduction to the story of Abraham, we learned that the origin of idolatry was in the perversion of the knowledge of correspondence possessed by the Ancient Church. The idolatrous remnants of that church were scattered all over the world, and the pagan religions are the descendants of those remnants. But there were also remnants which remained in the Holy Land itself. They were the several tribes grouped under the title of Canaanites from whom the country was called the land of Canaan. In the letter of the Word Canaan (Genesis 9:18) was the son of Ham, and Genesis 10:19 tells us that "the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha." Of the three sons of Noah, Ham represents "internal worship corrupted." Throughout the Word, therefore, the Canaanites represent those interior evils which by heredity lie deep within us and oppose the entrance of the Lord into our hearts and minds. In addition to the Canaanites there were in the land the giants, an evil remnant of the Most Ancient Church, who represent our common tendency to exalt self.

The Canaanites were in the land when Abraham first came from Ur. We remember the wicked cities of Sodom and Gomorrah, and the kings who carried off Lot and were overcome by Abraham. These stories picture our first struggles against our inherited evils while we are in the tender and innocent states of little childhood. But the descendants of Abraham, as we have seen, did not remain continuously in the Holy Land to hold down these enemies. They went into Egypt and stayed there for two hundred and fifty years. And while they were away, the Canaanites increased and built themselves many strong, walled cities, and gained complete control of the land. So when the Israelites returned under Joshua, they faced a long struggle for possession of the country which had been promised to them. This is a true picture of our own experience. As little children, cared for and protected by our parents and trusting wholly in them, we have a taste of heavenly living. But then we go out from our homes into the world of school and work and begin to develop as independent individuals, and for a long time we are chiefly concerned with external things and with our outward conduct. Our battles during this period are on the external plane. When we return to the Holy Land to repossess it — that is, when we finally are prepared for the development of our minds and hearts — we find that the few inner enemies we had to fight when we were little children have gathered strength and have entrenched themselves in strongholds of worldly thought and argument.

The Lord gave Joshua victory over all these enemies and enabled the Israelites to possess the land. Yet it was never a final victory. From the rest of the Bible story we know how the enemies in the land persisted, how constantly the Jews were tempted to mingle with them and adopt their ways, how their enemies gathered strength whenever the Jews became self-confident, and how at times they gained the upper hand and put the Jews to tribute. This too we can see in our own experience. There is never a time in this world when we can take our ease and relax our vigilance against the evils within us, never a time when we are not in need of examining ourselves and turning to the Lord for help.

We are now taking as our lesson the incident concerning the Gibeonites. The Gibeonites were Hivites. Among the descendants of Canaan listed in Genesis 10:15-18 were Heth — the Hittites — and the Hivites. These two remnants of the Ancient Church all through the Bible story were more inclined to be friendly to the Jews than any of the other Canaanites. It was from the Hittites that Abraham bought the field and cave of Machpelah; Esau married two wives from the Hittites; and we have an occasional Hittite mentioned in the period of the kings as rendering good service — notably Uriah the Hittite, who was so faithful to his duty in David's army that David could not cover his sin with Bathsheba by deceit. We first encounter the Hivites in Genesis 34 when Shechem the son of Hamor wishes to marry Jacob's daughter Dinah, and his father offers Jacob any price for her.

Swedenborg tells us that the Hittites and the Hivites were the more upright of the Canaanites because they still cherished the knowledges which had come down from the Ancient Church: the Hittites, the external knowledges which regard life; and the Hivites, the interior knowledges in the rituals and representatives. In @AC 3058 Swedenborg says that the Gibeonites of our lesson for today represent "those who continually desire to know truths, but for no other end than to know them, while caring nothing for the use."

The ruse by which the Gibeonites deceived Joshua was a falsehood on the surface, but truth interiorly. They had indeed come from a far country, the Ancient Church. The "bread" which they carried — spiritual good — had come hot for their provision out of their houses in the day they came forth, and the "wine—skins" - the doctrines of spiritual truth — had been new when the branch called the Hivites had first developed in the Ancient Church. Their "garments" and their "shoes" — their ideas of external life and their practical applications of these ideas — had been whole and new. Over the centuries they had all become dry and moldy and torn and patched. But the Gibeonites recognized that the Lord was on the side of Israel and they preferred to serve rather than to resist, knowing that if they resisted they would be destroyed.

And on Joshua's part, what in the letter was a weakness — he asked not counsel at the mouth of the Lord but made a league with them — expresses a truth interiorly. As Joseph told his brothers (Genesis 50:20): "Ye thought evil against me: but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive." The Lord "knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust." His providence over us in the matter of the inherited evils within us gives us a means of turning into useful channels those evils which we would not destroy.

In our own lives this law means that there are many things in us which in themselves are weaknesses — "strangers" to the angel in us — yet which, if recognized and properly subordinated, may be made to serve our higher goals. We all have that which the Gibeonites symbolize within us: that natural desire to seek all kinds of information regardless of whether it is good or bad, useful or potentially harmful. Our fondness for looking into things and acquiring information can be made to show us the best means of helping others in material ways, and can bring us truths which are useful in our daily life. The Gibeonites were to hew wood and draw water for the house of the Lord, and we recall that it was only in the outer court of the tabernacle that wood and water were regularly used.

