
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the ruse of the Gibeonites is simple and is helpful in showing how a thing which in the letter is wrong may in its internal meaning be truth.

---
The Israelites retained their camp at Gilgal for some time, but not long after they celebrated the Passover there and had conquered the two strong cities of Jericho and Ai, they made a pilgrimage to Shechem to fulfill a command given by Moses. (You will find it in the twenty-seventh chapter of Deuteronomy.) You may remember that Shechem was the first place where Abraham stopped when he came into the Holy Land from Ur, and that he built an altar there. Now Joshua also builds an altar there (8:30) and reads the book of the law to the people. The place was a natural amphitheater between two mountains, Ebal and Gerizim, and the people divided, six tribes standing on the slopes of Ebal and six on the slopes of Gerizim, as Moses had decreed, and said "Amen" to the laws as they were read. Then they went back to Gilgal.

The nations which lived in the Holy Land at this time were all - except the giants — remnants of the Ancient Church. We remember that this was a spiritual church, whose principal delight was the study of correspondences, and that it perished because it perverted its knowledge by using it for self-exaltation. Its end is described in the story of the Tower of Babel. Swedenborg tells us that the people of the Ancient Church made images of things in nature and set them up as reminders of the spiritual things to which they correspond, and that when they became selfish and began to lose their spiritual knowledges, they fell into the worship of the images themselves, and so idolatry sprang up and with their dispersion was spread all over the earth. (See @AC 1241, @DSS 23.)

But there are always among all nations people who sin because of ignorance rather than from evil desires and who are not opposed to the truth when it is presented to them. The Gibeonites did not join with the other nations in the Holy Land in resistance to Israel. Instead they sought to make peace with them. Their method was in the letter dishonest, but their intent was sincere — as their later conduct proved.

And in the internal meaning their statements were true. The "far country" they came from was the Ancient Church. The "bread" was the spiritual good which had been warm and fresh when they started, and had grown dry and moldy as they wandered from true worship. The "wine—skins" were their doctrines, which had been strong and true once but were now unfit to hold new truth (read Matthew 9:17). The "old patched garments and shoes" were their understanding of right ways of living, which had declined through the years.

The Gibeonites represent the desire for knowledge for its own sake without any particular thought of its use. This desire is in all of us as part of our heredity. Every child goes through a period when his every other word seems to be Why? and most of us never stop asking why, whether we have any conscious need of the answer or not. If this "mental curiosity" is taken as wholly a friend, and is not put in its proper place in our lives, it may be an enemy to our spiritual life because it can lead us to clutter our minds with a lot of unnecessary and even harmful information. But if it is understood, it can be brought into subjection and made useful to our spiritual progress. The Gibeonites were made "hewers of wood and drawers of water" for the congregation of Israel and for the tabernacle. Knowledges of all kinds are needed if we are to carry our good purposes into concrete action. Wood represents right action, and water, of course, truth. For example, every Christian feels that war should be abolished, but there will have to be much "hewing of wood and drawing of water" — i.e., many carefully worked out plans of action and much gathering of accurate information and formulation of principle — before the desired result is attained.

The wood and water for the tabernacle would be for the use of the great brazen altar in the outer court and for the brazen laver there, and the outer court of the tabernacle represents our outward conduct as we attempt to serve the Lord.

Joshua's part of the story is interesting, too. He acted hastily according to a judgment formed on the basis of appearances, without taking counsel of the Lord (verse 14) and, although he afterward made the Gibeonites useful, bound himself to them in a pact which presently involved him in battle on their account, as you may learn by reading chapter 10. All our lives we have to fight the temptation to judge by appearances, and every time we yield and act hastily, we bring upon ourselves unexpected and unwanted consequences. We need to take counsel of the Lord every step of the way.

