
=== Junior

Deal in this class with the connecting material and also with the origin of the evil peoples in the land, especially the Hivites. Have the class look up the Bible references. This helps to give them a sense of the continuity of the Bible story and forms a basis for later instruction. The moral lesson in the story for today is one which the Juniors need.

---
Read in Joshua 8:30-35 how Joshua obeyed the command Moses had given in Deuteronomy 27:1-13 and set up an altar between Mount Ebal and Mount Gerizim and read the book of the law to the people there. This was the same place where Abraham set up his first altar when he came from Ur to the land of Canaan.

You remember that the children of Israel had been in Egypt for about two hundred and fifty years. During that time the idol-worshipers who lived in the land of Canaan had increased so that the land was full of enemies whom Joshua would have to conquer. The fall of Jericho and Ai filled all these people with fear because they trusted in their strong cities, and all through the land they were preparing to resist Joshua. But there was one nation in the land which preferred to make peace with the Israelites. These were the people who lived in four cities in the center of the land, one of them not far from Jerusalem, the cities of Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kirjath-jearim. These people were Hivites. The Hivites are mentioned first in Genesis 10:17, where they are said to be descendants of Canaan, one of the sons of Ham the son of Noah. The Canaanites lived in the Holy Land and gave their name to it. There were a number of tribes of them and they were enemies of Israel, but the groups called the Hittites and the Hivites were more inclined than the rest to make peace. There are several stories in the Bible which show this.

Noah and his sons belonged to the second church on earth, the Ancient Church, and this church especially loved knowledge or truth. At first it loved the truth for the sake of living according to it, but the good motive gradually died out. You know some people like to learn a great many facts about everything without ever making use of them. The Hivites in our lesson were such people. The trick they played on Joshua was not honest, but it was better than it would have been for them to fight him.

What did they tell Joshua about themselves?

How did they make him believe it?

The wine "bottles" of the Holy Land were skins, usually of goats, not bottles as we think of them; so even these could be made to look old.

Joshua made a serious mistake. See if you can find what it was by reading verse 14. He formed his judgment in this case according to "appearances"; that is, he judged hastily by the way things looked on the outside. If he had taken counsel of the Lord, the Lord could have shown him the truth which was hidden under the appearances. Do we ever form hasty judgments in this way and then find out that we have been mistaken?

We all do make such mistakes, and when we do, we should acknowledge them and try to make the best of it. If we face them honestly, the Lord can use our mistakes to teach us our weaknesses and so to make us better. Can you see how Joshua's mistake was used? You know that water represents truth. Wood pictures external good deeds like feeding the hungry and helping people to be more healthy and comfortable in the world. We need knowledge of facts to help us perform good deeds and also to understand the truth about things. This was why the Gibeonites were made to serve the Israelites as hewers of wood and drawers of water.

But wrong things always have bad consequences also. In the very next chapter we find that because the Gibeonites had made peace with Joshua, the other people in the land made war on them, and because Joshua had made a league with them he had to go to their assistance. So when we act hastily, we often bring upon ourselves consequences which we did not expect.

