
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Use this lesson to show how the Lord can make use even of our weaknesses and mistakes and preserves everything in us which may be of service in our spiritual development.

---
When Israel reentered the Holy Land, the land was full of enemies. It is interesting to note that in the letter of the Word all the nations mentioned as occupying the Holy Land when Israel returned to it can be traced back to the prehistoric churches, the Most Ancient and Ancient, the giants to the Most Ancient and all the others to the Ancient Church, their names occurring first in the genealogies taken from the Ancient Word, notably Genesis 10:15-18. On the other hand, the ancestry of the nations outside of the Holy Land can be traced no further back than Abraham.$ The nations outside the land picture evils which come to us through our external environment as we grow up, while those within the land represent the deep internal evils of our heredity. We never wholly destroy these nations; but if we look to the Lord, He can give us power to keep them in subjection and even in some cases to make them useful to our spiritual development.

[*There is at least one exception to this rule (there perhaps being others), namely "Amalek," the first enemy which attacked Israel in the wilderness (Exodus 17). This ancient nation is first mentioned in Genesis 14:7 as one of the nations attacked by Chedorlaomer shortly after Abram arrived in Canaan. This nation seems to have had branches both within and without the Holy Land. Dr. Bayley, in From Egypt to Canaan, notes: "Afterwards a portion of the family of Esau likewise took the name of Amalek [Genesis 36:12], perhaps from settling in the very same district that had been occupied by the Amalekites of old." -Editor]

The Gibeonites of our lesson today were the best remnant of the degenerated Ancient Church. They were, according to the letter, Hivites, descendants of Canaan, the son of Ham. They represent the love of knowledge for its own sake, without thought of its use. We all have this love, especially in our childhood. We like to find out about everything. Under the control of spiritual purposes this faculty can help us decide what we ought to do in our outward life, finding out for us the truth about the conditions we face and showing us the best ways of meeting them. This is why the Gibeonites were to be spared as long as they were willing to be hewers of wood and drawers of water for the altar and for the congregation.

The appearance of the Gibeonites when they came to Joshua, although it was assumed to deceive him, had genuine truth behind it. Suppose we think of an example. Here, let us say, is a scientist who has let his interest in the natural world wean him away from religious belief. He pursues his profession eagerly and works hard at it, but only for the purpose of finding out ever more and more about the natural world. What is to be done with his discoveries he leaves to other people, both good and bad. The innocent goodness which he had when he was a little child close to the Lord has deteriorated, like the bread which was hot from the oven at the start but had become dry and moldy. His unquestioning belief in God and his tender conscience, like the wine—skins, have become dry and cracked during the years. His ways of thinking and living have, like the garments, come to be full of holes instead of all of one piece, and patched, like the shoes, with worldly expedients. He has indeed come a long journey from that far country of his infancy when he was in his Father's house. Yet if we can see his shortcomings and put them in their place in our lives, the results of his labors can be made serviceable to the spiritual life in providing us with accurate knowledge by means of which we may benefit the world.

This dry scientist may actually be living right in our own mental country. Whenever our interest in worldly knowledge of any kind - whether it be of science, of art, of money—making, of social conventions, of sports, or even of the text of the Bible — comes to be a thing we pursue for its own sake apart from its use to the spiritual life of men, our spiritual bread begins to spoil in us, our religious principles are broken, our knowledge of how to live usefully declines. The fault is not in the knowledges we love to acquire but in the fact that we have come to regard them as ends in themselves and not in their true character as servants to our higher faculties.

The Lord did not require Joshua to break his promise to the Gibeonites. He let them live, but He required that they be put and kept in their proper place. In chapter 10 we find that the other nations, as soon as they found that Gibeon had made a league with Israel, banded together and attacked it. This forced Joshua to go to its aid. When we yield to our weaknesses, even though later we realize our mistake and get them under control, there are always the unlooked—for consequences which have to be faced.

