
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The best discussion topics are the connection of the Old and New Testaments through John the Baptist, the meaning of his message, the three kinds of baptism, and the reason why the Lord wished to be baptized.

---
In connection with this lesson it is helpful to read Matthew 11:7-15 and 17:10-13 and John 1:19-30, and in the Arcana number 9372 (see the excerpt below). We see that John testifies of himself that he is the fulfillment of the prophecy in Isaiah 40:3, and that the Lord testifies that John is the fulfillment of the prophecy in Malachi 4:5-6. In the letter, then, John is a very important link between the Old and the New Testaments. The prophecy in Malachi tells us that the Lord sent John to prepare the people so that the coming of the Lord should not smite the earth with a curse. How could the Lord's coming be a curse to anyone? Suppose a person has lived an evil life and has forgotten all he ever knew of what is true and right; then suddenly he sees - really sees — what true human life should be, and sees himself in all his blackness with no knowledge of how any change in himself could be accomplished. Would not this realization seem to curse him and perhaps even drive him to self-destruction? Indeed men have been known to commit suicide because they suddenly awoke to the realization of some great evil for which they had been responsible. The people of Bible days had fallen into a state in which they were wholly corrupt, with no knowledge of right remaining in their minds. If those who might still be affected by good had not been prepared beforehand, the Lord's coming would have struck them like a bolt of lightning. They had first to be turned from their evil ways so that heavenly influences could surround them by means of which they could approach the Lord. In the same way, we have to be led to see the evils in ourselves one by one and to correct them; our interior evils are hidden from us until we have gained spiritual strength by correcting the exterior ones.

The work of pointing out our external evils and calling us to repent and turn from them is done by the letter of the Word. This is our "John the Baptist." In the Scripture story all the prophets represent the Word, but particularly Moses, Elijah, Elisha, and John the Baptist. This is why John is called "Elias which was for to come." It is why he dressed the same way as Elijah (2 Kings 1:8), the camel's hair garment representing the letter of the Word and the leathern girdle or belt the external things which tie it together and connect it with the spiritual sense, the places, for example, where the spiritual sense appears in the letter. It is also why he ate locusts and wild honey, which represent the most external truths and their delight. John lived in the wilderness of Judea because that was a picture of the state into which the church had fallen. John's message, "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand," is the message of the letter of the Word, with its commands and prohibitions and its promise of blessedness if only we will obey. Read Luke 3:10-14 and see how John singled out the particular sins of the different classes of people who came to him and bade them turn from them. This is what the Word should do for us. It is not repentance to confess that we are sinners and not single out and correct any particular sin. Repentance is not saying we are sorry; it is refusing to repeat the sin and learning to hate it. If we refuse to do this first work, which is our part of the covenant, the Lord cannot fulfill His part and bless us with His spirit, for His spirit cannot enter where sin is. How often we close our eyes to our own evils or spend our time trying to find excuses for them when the one thing necessary is to acknowledge and get rid of them! How prone we are to blame other people for our unhappiness, when unhappiness always comes from within ourselves! "A man's foes shall be they of his own household."

Baptism with water is the correspondential sign of this repentance. It pictures the cleansing of our outward lives according to the Lord's truth. The Jordan was the symbol of the truths which give entrance into the Holy Land of spiritual living, the simple truths of the letter of the Word, summed up in the ten commandments. So John baptized in Jordan, just as Naaman was cleansed of his leprosy when, in obedience to Elisha, he washed seven times in Jordan. All the washings of the Old Testament had this meaning, and in the Christian Church baptism takes the place of circumcision and all the ancient Hebrew ceremonial washings, as the Holy Supper takes the place of all the ancient Hebrew sacrifices and feasts. The baptism of an infant is a sign that the child's parents intend to bring him up according to the Lord's truth, and it is a symbol of entrance into the Christian Church. And because the Sacrament of Baptism is carried out in accordance with the letter of the Word, it connects the child with heaven through correspondences and places the child, as to his spirit, in the Christian heavens. So baptism affects both the parents and the child. This is why the people present at a baptism feel the heavenly sphere.

But John speaks of another baptism, with which the Lord will baptize, the baptism "with the Holy Spirit and with fire." We have said that except as we repent of our actual evils, the Lord's spirit cannot come in and bless us. The baptism with water must come first. But as we repent and correct our outward lives, the Lord's spirit does come in to take the place of the selfish spirit which prevailed before. This is the baptism with the Holy Spirit. And finally we come to love to do right because unselfish love has entered our hearts from the Lord. This is the baptism with fire. Repentance is our part. The Lord never fails to perform His part. "Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me" is a prayer which we should all know and use.

The Lord taught us, by His own example, that baptism is a necessary step in a truly good life. John recognized the Lord as the Messiah, the one whose shoes he knew himself unworthy to bear, and hesitated when the Lord came to him to be baptized. But Jesus told him, "Suffer it to be so now; for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness." With us baptism symbolizes repentance. The Lord needed no repentance; He had committed no sin. But in His assumed humanity were all the tendencies to evil which men had ever had, and He had felt and fought these by means of the truths of the letter of the Word, just as men do. He was cleansing His assumed humanity by means of the truth and bringing it into divine form. So it was fitting for Him to fulfill also the external symbol of the internal work He was doing, and He was baptized by John in Jordan. His baptism was a sign that He was accomplishing in the outer plane of His life the glorification which is the prototype of our regeneration. The dove and the voice from heaven were the signs — correspondential signs — of the inner results of this work, that divine wisdom and love flowed into His humanity as fast as He drove out evil by victories over temptations. The "beloved Son" was the humanity which was being made over into divine form.

Even if we had no understanding of the meaning and uses of baptism, the fact that the Lord insisted upon being baptized should convince us that it is necessary.

