
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
More can be done in this class with the meaning of baptism and of repentance and with the meaning of the Lord's being baptized. Show the young people why the voice from heaven said, "This is my beloved Son," and connect this teaching with the lessons from Matthew 1 and 2. The Gospel of Matthew tells nothing of the Lord's childhood after He returned from Egypt except that He was brought up in Nazareth. Our chapter for today tells us how His active ministry began with His coming to John to be baptized. He was about thirty years old at this time.

---
Read Isaiah 40:3 and Malachi 3:1. When the Lord was born, only a few people were in such a state that they could be told of His birth. The great mass of the people — even those who wanted to be good — had lost all knowledge of the truth and were living evil lives, although often through ignorance. In that state they could not have accepted the Lord. They had to be made to realize their evil state and at least make a start at reformation before they could receive the Lord and His teaching, just as the whole Hebrew nation centuries before had had to wander in the wilderness until all the rebellious had died off before they could enter the Holy Land. So John the Baptist was sent before the Lord to preach repentance and to baptize all who wished to cleanse their lives. We cannot learn to do what is right until we see and acknowledge the things that are wrong in our lives and stop doing them. This is repentance. It is often hard work, for we are all selfish, and our minds are clever at finding excuses. John, like the old prophets, was a wild, rough man, clothed in a hairy garment and wearing a leather belt. These are symbols of the hard appearance of the truth when we first try to live it. John's baptism with water — and ours - is the sign of the desire to make one's life clean according to the Lord's truth.

But after we have done this work of repentance, the Lord can come into our lives and fill them with His loving spirit, making it easy and delightful to do right. The baptism with water is the cleansing of the outward life. This is our part. The baptism of the Holy Spirit is the cleansing of our thoughts as the Lord's truth becomes established in our minds. The baptism with fire is the entrance of the Lord's unselfish love into our hearts.

Sometimes we think we are sorry for wrong things we have done when really we are sorry only that we have been found out.

This is not repentance. The Pharisees and Sadducees came to John because they wanted to seem good and to escape the punishment for their sins. But John told them they could not be saved unless they brought forth "fruits meet for repentance," that is, unless they stopped doing evil. "Cease to do evil; learn to do well" is the rule for everyone who wants to attain the kingdom of heaven.

The Lord insisted on being baptized for two reasons: first, because He came to be our example; and second, because He had to fight temptations by means of the truth, even though He had no actual wrongdoing of which to repent, as the descent of the dove upon Him pictures. The dove, among birds, like the lamb among animals, is the symbol of innocence.

We need not be confused by the fact that in the Gospels the Lord is often called the Son of God. When the Lord chose to be born into the world, He took on through Mary a human nature like ours in which He could meet all the evils which we inherit; only in this way could He overcome them and show us how to do the same with His help. The finite human nature was not God and it was what the people saw rather than the divine soul within. So the record of His earthly life calls Him the Son of God and also the Son of man. Read Isaiah 9:6. This prophecy shows how the Lord, coming into the world as a child, was to rise gradually in the estimation of His disciples from babyhood on, until He could be recognized by them as "the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace."

