
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Have the Juniors look up the prophecies and show them why John the Baptist was called "Elias which was for to come." The meaning of repentance should be stressed and the reason why we must repent before we can receive the Lord's spirit in our hearts. The three kinds of baptism can be explained.

---
Where was the Lord born?

By what three names is He called in the first chapter of Matthew?

What do they mean?

Where did Joseph take the Lord to save Him from Herod?

Where did they go to live when they came back?

Look up Isaiah 40:3 and Malachi 3:1. The story of how these prophecies were fulfilled is told in our chapter for today.

What was the name of this messenger of the Lord?

What was his message?

Where did John the Baptist live?

How did he dress?

What was his food?

What did he do for those who came to him?

In what river did he baptize?

In a Bible dictionary we read the following: "JORDAN (the descender), the one river of Palestine, has a course of little more than 200 miles, from the roots of Anti—Lebanon to the head of the Dead Sea ... There were fords over against Jericho ... Higher up were the fords or passages of Bethbarah ... Thus there were two customary places at which the Jordan was fordable; and it must have been at one of these, if not at both, that baptism was afterward administered by St. John and by the disciples of our Lord. Where our Lord was baptized is not stated expressly, but it was probably at the upper ford."

How did John tell the people the Lord would baptize them?

The Holy Spirit is a name for the Lord's own spirit. Water is the symbol of truth, and fire is the symbol of love. The baptism with water is a sign that we want to make our lives clean according to the Lord's truth. This is hard sometimes because it means trying to find out what wrong things we are doing, admitting them, and not doing them anymore. This is repentance. But after we have made our lives clean in this way, the Lord can come into our minds and hearts and fill them with His own loving spirit. Then we can be happy in doing right. There is really no other way to be happy, for doing wrong always leads to unhappiness. This is why John the Baptist, with his message of repentance and his baptism with water, had to come before the Lord "to prepare his ways."

The Pharisees and Sadducees did not want to repent or to do right, but only to be saved from the punishment of their sins. John told them that they could not be saved without repenting and doing right. Sometimes when we have done wrong, we say we are sorry, hoping to escape punishment, when we are not really sorry that we have done wrong but only that we have been found out and may suffer for it; we would do the same thing again if we thought we could hide it. This is not repentance and it will not do us any good. Read verse 12. What do you think are meant by the wheat and the chaff?

The Lord insisted on being baptized by John because He came to show us the right way to live, and it is right that we should be baptized.

Why did John at first not want to baptize the Lord?

After the Lord was baptized what was seen?

What did the voice from heaven say?

The dove which descended upon the Lord was a sign of His perfect innocence. He never actually did anything wrong, but He was tempted to do wrong and had to fight temptation with the truth, just as we do. Our next lesson will tell about His temptation.

Jesus as to His soul was God Himself, but while He lived in the world He was often called the Son of God because He had clothed Himself in a mind and body like ours which was not of itself divine.

