
=== Primary

These children can be told a good deal about John the Baptist. Remind them of Elijah and tell them that John the Baptist was like him and that the Lord spoke of John as Elias, which is the Greek form of Elijah. Then tell them about the Lord's baptism and that every Christian should follow His example. The correspondence of baptism can be given in a simple way.

---
Do you remember where the Lord was born? And you remember that the wicked king Herod wanted to kill Him, and that Joseph and Mary took Him down into Egypt to save Him. They stayed in Egypt until king Herod died. Then the Lord told Joseph in a dream that they might go home. They did not go back to Bethlehem, for that was not their real home. They went to Nazareth, farther north in the Holy Land, and there the Lord grew up.

The Bible tells us that He was obedient to His parents and that He "increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man." He did not make Himself known as the promised Messiah until He was nearly thirty years old. The word Messiah means the same as Christ, the "anointed one." Do you remember how Samuel anointed Saul and David by pouring olive oil on their heads, to show that the Lord had chosen them? All through the Old Testament it had been prophesied that someday a Messiah would appear who would be God Himself come into the world. Jesus was this promised Messiah.

Who was sent to tell the people of His coming?

Why was he called John the Baptist?

Where did he live?

How was he dressed?

What was his food?

What did he tell the people to do?

How did he say the Lord would baptize them when He came?

When Jesus came to the Jordan, what did He have John do for Him?

You see, John recognized the Lord and knew how great He was, and at first hesitated to baptize Him because of this. But the Lord had come to show us all how we ought to live, and we all ought to be baptized. So the Lord was baptized. And when the people who were there heard what the voice from heaven said, they knew that the promised Messiah had come at last.

What did the voice from heaven say?

