
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The doctrine of baptism should be elaborated, using the material on its three uses at the end of the lesson, and the meaning of the three kinds of baptism should be given. Call the attention of the young people to the fact that John's ministry bears the same relation to the Lord's which the wilderness journey bears to the conquest of the Holy Land.

---
The Gospel of Matthew gives none of the incidents of the Lord's infancy and boyhood found in Luke. Chapter 2 closes with the return from Egypt and the settlement in Nazareth, and chapter 3 begins with the ministry of John the Baptist nearly thirty years later. And John appears, as he does in the Gospels of Mark and John, without the preparation which the Gospel of Luke provides in the story of Zacharias and Elisabeth. But the meeting of John and Jesus at Jordan is described in all four Gospels, and the Lord's baptism in the first three.

The Lord's own reason for being baptized is stated in verse 15: "for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness." This is our first and really our most compelling argument for the Christian Sacrament of Baptism. But we are given to know what baptism signifies, why it was instituted, and the use it performs for us. John's message gives us the meaning of baptism: "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." The kingdom of heaven is always at hand. The Lord is always at the door of our lives waiting to be admitted. Repentance is nothing else than the cleansing of the life by means of truth from the Word in order that the Lord's spirit may find entrance into our minds and His love into our hearts. And we are told that baptism, through its correspondence, actually does establish a direct connection between the person baptized and the Christian heavens, as well as a recognized membership in the body of Christians on earth.

Nevertheless our chapter also points out that baptism, to be effective, must be followed by the effort to live a good life. The promises made at the time of baptism by the person himself or by his parents or godparents are not idle forms. They must be kept. The way opened by baptism between the soul and heaven must be kept open and the heavenly life must be cultivated and bear fruit, for "every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire."

John's baptism with water pictures the reformation of the external life, bringing it into the order of the commandments. This is our part of the covenant. But it is the least part, just as it is elsewhere said of John that the least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. We do not save ourselves. We merely enable the Lord to save us. But if we do this small part, the baptism with water will be followed by the baptism with the Holy Spirit and with fire, the Lord's baptism of truth and love. We can all see this from our own experience. If we recognize a bad habit, strive to overcome it with the Lord's help, and form a good habit in its place, we shall soon realize how much better the good habit is than the bad one and come to love it, wondering how we could ever have done otherwise.

The Lord's ministry began with baptism because He chose to take on a humanity just like ours, in which He had to fight evils just as we do: to learn the truth from the Scriptures, recognize what was contrary to it and shun this as evil. That He had no actual evil of which to repent, had never committed evil during His childhood and youth, was pictured by the descent of the dove upon Him, the dove symbolizing innocence.

The voice from heaven was the confirmation at the beginning of the Lord's ministry that the soul within was God. The mind and body taken on from Mary were not the infinite God, but the real person within was. We know, if we think about it, that each of us has a real self which is within and above his body and even the part of his mind that is concerned with his body. In us this real self to begin with is selfish, because of our inheritance from the ancestry of both our parents. Our first impulse is always to serve self. The Lord did not have this deep interior selfishness because He had no earthly father. The Lord's "self" was divine unselfish love for all mankind. So, although in the outer self which He took on from Mary He could be attacked by all the hells, and although He fought the hells in this outer plane just as we have to, He always conquered. At first all men saw of Him was the outer man, just as when we meet a new acquaintance, all we see at first is his outward appearance and the things he wishes us to see of his thoughts and feelings. But as we come to know this friend, gradually the real person comes out into view whether he wishes it or not. So the Lord was not at once called the Father or God, but the Son of God and also the Son of man. It was not until near the end of His earthly life that he could openly say He was the Father (John 14:9). Read Isaiah 9:6 to see how this was prophesied.

