
=== Adult

It might be well to call for questions on the chapter immediately after your brief introduction on the Major Prophets in general. The questions will show the particular phase of the lesson which will be of most interest and value to the class. The teacher should be thoroughly prepared.

As we all know, the four Major Prophets are called "Major" only because of the length of their books as compared with those of the twelve Minor Prophets. The length of the books also gives us more knowledge about the men themselves than we should otherwise have. We know when and where and approximately how long each one prophesied. The first one, Isaiah, appears also in the second book of Kings in connection with the account of the reign of Hezekiah in Judah. In our lesson on the fall of Judah we had occasion to speak of Jeremiah, who was the Lord's prophet in Judah at that time. Jeremiah was spared by the king of Babylon because he had advised the people to submit and pay tribute and remain in their homes, but afterward some of those who were left in the land fled to Egypt, taking Jeremiah with them against his will. The Lamentations of Jeremiah were written in Egypt and were for this reason classed by the ancient Jews among the Tehillim or Writings instead of with the Prophets — where they belong.

Ezekiel and Daniel were among the captives carried away to Babylon. Ezekiel was a priest and Daniel one of those of royal blood who were selected at Nebuchadnezzar's command at the time of his first victory in Judah and brought to Babylon along with part of the treasure of the temple. In Daniel 1:4 we have a description of Daniel and his companions: "Children in whom was no blemish, but well favored, and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge, and understanding science, and such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace, and whom they might teach the learning and the tongue of the Chaldeans." The book of Daniel contains several chapters of consecutive narrative which afford striking stories to teach to children, and in the letter the book is easier to follow and to understand than most of the strictly prophetical books of the Word.

Earlier we have compared Joseph's character and his rise to power in Egypt with the story of Daniel in Babylon. They are strikingly similar. Like Joseph, Daniel became a captive as a very young man but, because he was absolutely faithful to his own God, he was protected by the Lord and given the power to interpret dreams which eventually brought him to the notice of the king and led to his becoming a ruler in the land of his captivity. Daniel's contemporary fame is attested by two references to him in Ezekiel 14:14, 28:3. The last few chapters of the book of Daniel are accounts of his own visions, which in the spiritual sense are prophetic of the whole history of the church from his own time to the Second Coming and the Last Judgment, and in the last chapter he is ordered to "seal the book, even to the time of the end." This connects with the opening of the seals in the fifth chapter of Revelation.

We recall that Babylon represents the love of dominion and that Swedenborg usually interprets it as applying to a particular church in which from love of dominion holy things have been made to serve the ambitions of men and so have been profaned. Nebuchadnezzar's dream of the great image, the subject of our lesson from Daniel last year, pictured the gradual vastation of that church. The history of the spiritual Babylon is very clearly described in @AE 1029. In paragraph 10 of this number a part of our chapter for today is quoted, and we are told that "the church of the Lord (in which the love of dominion rules) successively becomes Babylon; and that as it becomes Babylon so it is devastated as to all the good of love and all the truth of faith; and that this is its end, that is, it is no longer a church; and when it is no longer a church it is reckoned among the idolatrous nations, except those in it who worship the Lord, regard the Word as holy, and admit instruction from it."

Daniel had said, in interpreting the dream of the image, that Nebuchadnezzar was the head of gold. Nebuchadnezzar's dealings with Judah and in particular with Daniel show him to have been in general a wise king, but he had the pride and love of dominion which characterized his nation. They led him astray more than once, as in the story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in chapter 3 and again more seriously in the events of chapter 4, to which verses 18 to 21 of our chapter for today refer. Nevertheless each time Nebuchadnezzar accepted his lesson, recognized his fault, and humbled himself before the God of Daniel. He was the head of gold of the image.

Belshazzar, the son of Nebuchadnezzar, had all his father's pride and love of dominion but none of his wisdom. Nebuchadnezzar had kept the treasures of the temple which he had brought from Jerusalem laid up with his own treasures in the house of his god. Belshazzar brought them out and profaned them. His act is referred to in @DP 231 (see below), which is a study of various kinds of profanation. There Swedenborg lists seven kinds of profanation of varying degrees of seriousness. Belshazzar's is the fifth kind, which is committed by those "who attribute to themselves what is Divine." It is one of the depths to which the love of dominion in a person may lead, one which brings about the destruction of the church of everything spiritual — in him. Belshazzar could be frightened by the appearance of the strange hand and by the writing which he could not understand, but they did not change him. We are told in the writings that no one is regenerated in a state of fear.* It is by our daily free choices that we gradually form the character which will be ours to eternity. Our most subtle and deadly foe is arrogance and the love of rule.

[*See, e.g., @DP 139, 282, @AE 1155[3]. But cf. @AC 8925. -Editor]

The most striking part of our chapter is, of course, the writing on the wall. In @AR 313 we read: "By 'drinking from the gold and silver vessels of the temple of Jerusalem,' and at the same time worshiping other gods, signifies the profanation of good and truth; as also by 'Babylon.' By 'Mene,' or to number, is signified to know his quality as to truth; by 'Thekel,' or to weigh, is signified to disperse." The words in verse 25 are in Chaldee, the language of Babylon, which is a language very similar to the Hebrew. The word Peres, which Daniel appears to substitute for the word Upharsin, is merely the simple form of the same word. The U in Upharsin means "and," and the other changes in the word are phonetic and grammatical. The International Bible Dictionary suggests that the change to Peres may have been made "to suggest the empire of the 'Persians,' whose empire was to supersede that of Babylon." The king who followed Darius on the throne was Cyrus the Persian.

Daniel the prophet of course represents the Word of God; and we may think of the whole story of Daniel as a picture of how the Word of God is protected, manifests its power, and actually dominates the affairs of the world even among those who profess to be independent of it or to reject it altogether.

