
=== Notes for Parents

The whole Word is really prophecy, because its instruction is meant for people of all time, and even what seems to be merely the history of the ancient Jews tells us things about our own lives, our weaknesses and temptations and how to meet them, and about the Lord as the only source of security and happiness today as always. So the whole Word is our prophet.

But there are also many individuals in the Bible story who are spoken of as prophets. They were chosen and prepared to speak for the Lord to the people. Some of them are not even called by name. Some of those who are named — like Nathan, Elijah, and Elisha — did not give their names to books in the Bible. But at the end of the Old Testament there are sixteen* books which we call "the Prophets." The first four of these are called the Major Prophets because their books are long as compared with the other twelve.

[*A seventeenth book, Lamentations, is included in this group. -Editor] 

The Major Prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel.

Isaiah lived in the time of king Hezekiah of Judah. Jeremiah, as we have learned, was a prophet in Judah at the time Babylon conquered it. Ezekiel and Daniel were also from Judah. Ezekiel was a priest and Daniel one of the royal family. But they were both taken away to Babylon with the captives, and their prophecies were given and written there.

Daniel's story is quite a bit like Joseph's, for in his captivity he was faithful to the Lord and the Lord protected him and gave him power to interpret dreams, which brought him to the attention of king Nebuchadnezzar and led to his being made a ruler in the kingdom.

The story of Babylon is the story of how pride and the desire to be greatest and to rule over others inevitably leads to one's own destruction. "Pride goeth before destruction" is one of the proverbs of Solomon which is very true. Chapter 5 of Daniel tells of the defeat of Babylon, which was the result of the final profaning of the holy vessels of the temple of Jerusalem by Belshazzar, the son and successor of Nebuchadnezzar.

When we watch someone going ahead stubbornly in a course which we are sure will end in disaster, we may say, "Can't he read the writing on the wall?" The strange words which Daniel interpreted are from the Chaldean language, which was spoken in Babylon, and which was much like the Hebrew. Belshazzar was frightened by the sudden appearance of the hand which wrote on the wall, but he did not think of repenting. Something from the Word about judgment, heard suddenly, may startle a selfish man, but it does not change him. Our characters are built up day by day by our free choices, and they cannot be changed in a moment.

