
=== Intermediate

The correspondence is clear and interesting throughout. The lesson may well be centered around the meaning of the weapons of Saul, David, and Goliath.

The change from the Judges to the kings in Israel pictures the time when we realize that we must have the Lord's truth as a general ruling principle in our lives, instead of just going to the Lord for help when we are in serious trouble. Saul pictures our first efforts to use this truth as a ruling principle. Our first idea of it is natural and superficial; so it fails at crucial points. Judging things by their outward appearance and looking in everything to immediate external results seems to us "common sense," but we soon find that common sense cannot solve any of our real problems. This is because common sense deals with material things and the Lord's commands have our spiritual development in view, and our common sense does not trust the Lord's wisdom. This was Saul's failing and so his rule was not a victorious one and had to be terminated.

David as king also represents the rule of the Lord's truth, but it is truth understood in a deeper and more spiritual way. When our natural reason is seen to be faulty, we look for some deeper understanding to guide us. The character of this deeper understanding, which is pictured by David, appears from his occupation. He was a shepherd. That is, a deeper understanding of truth is founded on the desire to be good inside as well as out, for sheep picture the innocent, trustful affections which come to us from the Lord and are necessary if we are to keep close to Him. The Lord called Himself the "good shepherd." We need to remember also that David was born in Bethlehem, and that Joseph and Mary went to Bethlehem on the night of the nativity because they were "of the house and lineage of David." And the Lord was called "the son of David."

As soon as David was anointed, the power from the Lord departed from Saul. Just as soon as we have seen that we must think from spiritual principles, we begin to find a great deal wrong with mere common sense. But Saul is still acting as king. It is not possible to change our habits of thought in a moment. David, however, was able almost immediately to help Saul by playing his harp for him (1 Samuel 16:14-23). You may recall from our lesson on the first days in the wilderness, when Moses sang a song of triumph and Miriam used her timbrel, that Swedenborg says of the musical instruments mentioned in the Word that they picture different ways of expressing our love for the Lord. Wind instruments symbolize simple and direct expressions of the affection, but stringed instruments stand for expression of affection by means of truths. David was later to be called "the sweet psalmist of Israel." We might say that David's music was a form of reasoning from love.

When David went out to fight Goliath, he could not fight in Saul's armor because he had not "proved" it. Saul's armor pictures reasonings which up to this time have seemed sensible to us. David relied on the Lord instead of on his own strength. He used only his simple sling and the stones from the brook which he had put in his shepherd's bag. These picture a few truths from the Word which have been proved by experience and stored up in the mind for use.

Goliath, descendant of the giants of the Most Ancient Church (Genesis 6:4), symbolizes the deep-seated tendency to self-love and self-esteem born in each one of us. He was the champion of the Philistines, who picture our tendency to be satisfied with ourselves as we are and with knowing truth without using it to recognize and fight our evils. Goliath's defiance makes us think of the common expression: "You can't change human nature."

David's first shot struck the giant in the forehead, so that he fell on his face to the ground. When the Lord was tempted in the wilderness, He did not argue with Satan. In each temptation He chose the one right verse from the Scriptures which struck straight at the ruling idea of the temptation, and said, "It is written, Thou shalt not ... " This is the way we are to meet temptation, and if we do we can overcome it, no matter how strong it seems. Afterward we can see how foolish the arguments were with which we had been trying to defend our selfishness. David cut off Goliath's head with Goliath's own sword. After Goliath was out of the way, the Israelites could pursue and conquer the Philistine army. Once we really get rid of our self-satisfaction, the way will be open to spiritual victory. Our pride in self is the "giant" that stands in our way every time.

