
=== Senior

Here the meaning of the Philistines and of Goliath is the central point to emphasize. Young people need to see clearly the subtle temptation to self-esteem which is in all of us, and the difference — in origin and in effect — between trust in self and trust in the Lord.

With every one of us who is developing spiritually, the time comes when we see clearly that we can be satisfied no longer with the rule of our natural reason. We must have a new "king," a deeper and more spiritual understanding of truth to direct our lives. For we deeply want to "be good." We do not want to do harm, as we are always unintentionally doing when our natural reason is on the throne. This desire to be good, not to do harm, is represented by the fact that David, when he was called, was tending his father's sheep — just as the character of Saul's kingship was pictured by the fact that when called he was searching for his father's donkeys (1 Samuel 9). The donkey pictures the affection for natural reasoning, but sheep picture the affection of innocence.

David's home was in Bethlehem, the "house of bread," which Swedenborg tells us represents "truth from good." That is, the primary desire to be good enables us to see the truth more deeply and so to detect and dispel those deeper evils which the natural reason overlooks or condones. Living under this new principle we shall not say, when we face a decision, "What will produce the most immediate external results?" but "What will be really right in the Lord's sight?"

The anointing of David pictures our first recognition that this deeper rational is our true king. But there is a long way to go before David becomes king in fact. Habits of thought are hard to change. Saul is still on the throne. The spirit of the Lord had departed from him, but he still directs Israel. There is a long struggle ahead between Saul and David, in which Saul is jealous of David and tries to destroy him whereas David is always kind and helpful to Saul. This is characteristic of our period of transition from very young manhood and womanhood to maturity. The habits of youth cling to us and let go with great reluctance. The familiar story of David and Goliath pictures one of the earlier steps in this transition, our first successful attempt to judge the fallacy of the grosser arguments which exalt self, in the light of our new deeper understanding of the meaning of life.

The giant Goliath, one of the last survivors of the perverted Most Ancient Church, pictures our deep-seated inherited self-esteem, and his armor and weapons the reasonings which favor it. Goliath comes out in avowed defiance of the living God. He is the champion of the Philistines, those ever-present tendencies to imagine that our knowledge of what is right makes us superior to others, without any real effort to apply that knowledge to the correction and improvement of our own motives and thoughts. David, putting his whole reliance on the Lord, uses as his weapon only a smooth stone from the brook, a simple truth from the Word proved by experience and stored in the memory with a view to use. Slung with all his might it strikes the giant in the forehead, the governing principle of selfishness. After Goliath had fallen, David was able to stand upon him and cut off his head, using Goliath's own sword, the very reasonings which had seemed to favor self.

This story is very important for all of us, for it shows us our most persistent enemy (Israel never fully conquered the Philistines), the nature of the giant which acts as "front" for this enemy, and the one effective means of conquering both. If we think the Philistines are not in us, let us keep their meaning in mind and watch our thoughts and words, and especially our unconscious reactions for even one day. We are all prone to the feeling that our weaknesses are minor ones and after all excusable because in general we are "pretty good people," and to carry on arguments not for the sake of finding out the truth but in order to prove that we are right and the other fellow is wrong. We likewise tend to shrug off people who are different from ourselves as not worth much, and to be on the watch for opportunities to display our superior knowledge or ability. So the giant of self-esteem comes out morning and evening and opposes every step of our spiritual progress. But if we have David's courage and trust in the Lord, we shall find plenty of plain statements in the Word with which we may strike him in the forehead. Read Matthew 4:1-11.

