
=== Adult

Interesting discussion topics are the reason for the return from captivity, the nature of the four-hundred-year period following, the value of having four Gospels, the facts we know about Mark as an individual, and the reason why John had to come before the Lord.

---
Each of the Gospels makes the connection with the Old Testament in a different way. Matthew and Luke give the genealogies and cite the fulfillment of certain prophecies by the coming of the Lord. John shows the inner connection with all that went before from the beginning of creation. Mark makes the most immediate direct connection with the end of the Old Testament, quoting in his second verse the prophecy of Malachi, the last of the Old Testament prophets.

We now begin the study of the Gospel of Mark. The four Gospels complement each other. Although for the most part they present the same facts, each one adds details not mentioned in the others, and each offers a slightly different viewpoint. This has always been recognized. The first "harmony" of the Gospels was produced by Tatian as early as 170 A.D. The first thing that strikes us about the Gospel of Mark is his omission of any account of the Lord's birth and childhood. We know that the Lord in dictating the Word made use of the things which were in the minds of the individuals through whom He wrote. Mark's mind was apparently preoccupied with the marvelous works of the Lord in His public ministry. Mark was not one of the apostles. He is not mentioned by name in any of the Gospels. That he had personal acquaintance with the Lord we may assume from the first mention of him in Acts 12:12, where it is evident that his mother's home was a rendezvous for Christians in Jerusalem. We learn here that Mark's Hebrew name was John. Mark is the English form of the Latin Marcus. During the time of Roman rule, many boys were given double names in this way. In Acts 13:5 we hear of John Mark again as assisting Paul and Barnabas on their missionary journeys. In Acts 13:13 he leaves them and returns to Jerusalem, and we find that his return prejudiced Paul against him and caused a separation between Paul and Barnabas (Acts 15:36-41). Colossians 4:10 gives us the information that Mark was a nephew of Barnabas, and by that time he had also been re—accepted by Paul as a companion. Paul again speaks of him favorably in 2 Timothy 4:11. In 1 Peter 5:13 we learn that he was with Peter in Babylon, and tradition says that it was from Peter that he received most of his knowledge of the Lord's life. At least it is apparent that he was in a position to learn from Peter, one of the three disciples who had been with the Lord most constantly from the beginning of His public ministry.

The general impression we get from the opening chapter of Mark is that of the impact of the first public appearance of the Lord upon the common people. The immediate reference to the prophecy of Malachi bridges the four-hundred-year gap in the coming of the word of the Lord. Malachi prophesied a messenger of the Advent. John the Baptist is that messenger. Malachi (Malachi 4:5-6) had also prophesied that Elijah would be the one sent. The fact that John looked and dressed like Elijah and that he lived in the wilderness, thus fulfilling the prophecy of Isaiah 40:3, must have disposed the people to accept him and welcome his instruction. Even Herod recognized him as a holy man and feared him (Mark 6:20).

John's preaching in the wilderness may well be compared to the wilderness period in Jewish history. The relation of his mission to the Lord's ministry is the same as that of the wilderness journey to the conquest of the Holy Land. We recall that the Israelites had to remain in the wilderness until all those had died who were unwilling to face the sacrifices and dangers involved in the conquest, and that this pictured that our regeneration cannot begin until we are willing to recognize and with the Lord's help fight the evils within ourselves. Malachi 4:6 tells us that unless John had prepared the way, the Lord's coming would have smitten the earth with a curse. Sin is to acknowledge the truth and be unwilling to try to obey it. Again and again in the writings we read that the Lord enlightens only those who are seeking the truth for the sake of life. The Lord teaches this same lesson when He says to Nicodemus (John 3:19):

"This is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil." It is taught also in many passages in which the Lord is said to have blinded men's eyes lest they see.

We do not read of baptism as such before John, but the people of that day were familiar enough with washings and purifications to accept it as necessary, and the Lord made it a Christian sacrament by His example first and later by command (Matthew 28:19). It is the symbol of our desire to cleanse our lives according to the truths which the Lord gives us in the Word. We recall that the Jordan, the boundary of the Holy Land, pictures introductory truths.

Mark does not record the story of John's hesitation to baptize the Lord and the Lord's answer. He gives us the simple, powerful picture of the sudden appearance of the stranger from Nazareth coming to be baptized with the rest and then, as He came up from the water, the opening of the heavens, the descent of the dove, and the voice proclaiming this to be the "beloved Son," the long-awaited Messiah. It is not surprising that in the first verse of this Gospel as well as in verse 11 the Lord is referred to as the Son of God. The people had been taught to think of the Messiah, as they would see Him in the flesh, as the Son of God, but they knew also that He would be Jehovah Himself. We may be certain of this by studying the familiar prophecy in Isaiah 9:6.

