
=== Intermediate

The reason for the return from captivity should be stressed in introducing the lesson, as well as the way in which the scribes and Pharisees had confused the people by their added regulations. The correspondence of baptism, of the Jordan, and of the dove are important, and the class should also be told why the Lord was called the Son of God.

Four hundred years elapse between the close of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New. In all that time no prophet was sent. You remember that, although the people of Israel never came back after they were carried away to Assyria, it was promised by the prophets that the people of Judah would be allowed to return. The story of their return is told in the historical books of Ezra and Nehemiah, which our teachings tell us do not have an inner meaning. Swedenborg tells us the reason these people were allowed to return. It was because the Lord, when He came into the world, was to "fulfill" the Law and the Prophets, to live out before the eyes of men the divine truth which was within the Word. So He had to come among the people who had the Word and in the country where the names of the places had been used in the Word to correspond to things in that inner truth. The returned captives rebuilt Jerusalem and the temple and re—established the forms of their religion. They did not go back to the open idolatry which they knew had been the cause of the fall of their nation, but instead they built up such a body of additional laws and regulations for the carrying out of their worship that by the time the Lord came into the world, He could tell them truly, "Ye have made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition." (Matthew 15:6) The simple good people, who could not read the Word for themselves, did not really know what it taught. Read Matthew 23:23.

Now read Malachi 3:1 and 4:5-6. You see that the very last prophet to speak to the people before the Advent, and indeed the very last words of that prophet, told them that when the Messiah was about to appear, someone — who would be like Elijah - would come as a messenger of the Lord to prepare the people to receive Him. This messenger was John the Baptist. Read 2 Kings 1:8. John the Baptist dressed as Elijah did. Like Elijah he lived in the wilderness. He had all the marks of a great prophet, and this made people listen to him and believe what he said. Even Herod believed him to be a prophet.

Like Elijah and all the prophets, John pointed out the sins of the people and told them to repent. You know that when you are in a selfish and willful state, you do not want to be told the truth about yourself. You will not listen, and then you are punished because you were told what was right and refused to do it. If people had not been led by John to see and put away their sins before the Lord began to preach, they would not have accepted what He said and acknowledged Him to be the Messiah. We always have to put away wrongdoing before we can do right. John the Baptist stands for this first necessary step in the Christian life. That was why he baptized in the Jordan, because baptism pictures making the life clean according to the truth, and the Jordan pictures the truths which introduce us into the good life — truths like the commandments. We know that if we break the commandments we are not good, no matter what other seemingly good things we may do.

John told the people that the Lord, when He came, would baptize them with the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the Lord's own spirit of unselfish love, which comes into our hearts from Him after we put away selfishness and wrongdoing.

In the account of the Lord's baptism in Matthew 3:13-17 we learn that John recognized the Lord when He came to be baptized and wanted the Lord to baptize him instead. Read Matthew 3:15. You see that the Lord taught that baptism was the orderly beginning of the kind of life He came to show us, the Christian life. If we take the Lord as our example, we begin by being baptized.

The dove which descended on the Lord was a representation of the Holy Spirit. When we believe in the Lord and want to obey Him, His spirit comes down into our good desire and shows us the truth of the things we have learned from the Word about Him. Swedenborg says the dove which descended on the Lord at His baptism pictures "the Holy of faith." This means that the truths of the Word are holy because they come from the Lord. In heaven when the angels are talking about the holy truths which their minds are receiving from the Lord, doves appear about them. Whenever we read the word "dove" in the Word, the angels who are with us immediately think about some holy truth that comes from the Lord.

We need also to understand why the voice from heaven said, "Thou art my beloved Son," and why the first verse of our chapter says, "the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God." Read carefully Isaiah 9:6. You see that in this prophecy it is said that a "son" would be given to the world and yet one of His names would be "the everlasting Father." When the Lord came into the world in fulfillment of this prophecy, He was often called the "Son of God" and yet He said of Himself (John 14:9), "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." The people thought of Him at first as a man like themselves; so He allowed them to think of Him as the Son of God until they had learned enough of the wonderful things He did and said to be ready to believe that He was really their heavenly Father Himself.

His wonderful works began immediately after His baptism. He went into the wilderness for forty days to conquer the temptations which were in the natural body and mind in which He was living. Then He began His ministry. The three parts of this ministry were preaching, teaching, and healing. Preaching has to do with the heart, teaching with the mind, and healing with the body. Our chapter contains the story of three different miracles of healing. It also tells of His preaching in the synagogue in Capernaum and later in the synagogues throughout Galilee. And it tells of the calling of the first four disciples who were to become apostles. We shall have more to say about all these things in later lessons.

