
=== Junior

The history of the return from captivity will be interesting to this class, as will also the facts we know concerning Mark. The necessity of the preparation of the people by John the Baptist should be discussed in its application to our own lives. The correspondence of baptism can be given.

---
When Babylon conquered the kingdom of Judah, some of the poorest of the people were left in the land, and it was promised through the prophets that the faithful among the captives would one day be allowed to return. The books of Ezra and Nehemiah - which, although they do not have an inner sense, are historical records of this return — follow the two books of Chronicles. Read the first chapter of Ezra. Ezra 2:64 tells us that 42,360 people, besides over seven thousand servants and maids, returned to Judah when Cyrus gave them permission. Later another group returned, although many were too well satisfied with Babylon to uproot themselves and go back. Jerusalem and the temple were rebuilt, and the descendants of the returned captives were in the Holy Land when the Lord was born in Bethlehem some four hundred years later.

Now we are studying the life of the Lord as we find it in the Gospel of Mark. Mark was not one of the twelve apostles. He is first mentioned in Acts 12:12, where we learn that his mother was one of the early Christians in Jerusalem. Mark's Hebrew name was John, but it was customary in those days, when the Holy Land was under the rule of Rome, to have a Roman name also. His Roman name was Marcus, which in English becomes Mark. He had undoubtedly known the Lord and witnessed some of the events which he records, and he was also one of those who traveled about with Peter on his missionary journeys. We remember that Peter was one of the first and closest followers of the Lord. So the events of the Lord's ministry were all well known to Mark and were in his memory in much detail so that the Lord could use him for the writing of this Gospel. But Mark's concern is with the three years of the Lord's public life, and he does not mention His birth or early life.

What is the last book in the Old Testament?

Read Malachi 3:1 and 4:5-6 and then Mark 1:2-3. The promised messenger was John the Baptist. We learn from Luke 1:36 that John's mother was a cousin of Mary the mother of Jesus. She and her husband knew that Mary's child would be the Messiah and that their own son was to be His messenger. If you will read Luke 1:16-17 you will see just how John was to fulfill the prophecy in Malachi 4:5-6. Later the Lord Himself confirmed this (Matthew 11:14 and 17:10-13). Elias [KJV] is the Greek form of the name Elijah. The Lord had to come into the world because He could no longer reach by means of the Word of the Old Testament even those who wanted to learn of God and obey Him. He Himself tells us why in Matthew 15:1-9. You remember how unwilling Jonah was to take the Lord's message to Nineveh. The Jews were the only ones in the world who had the Word, and they were not only keeping it from the Gentiles, but their scribes and the Pharisees had also added so many rules and sayings of their own that the people, few of whom could even read, did not know what was really right and wrong in the sight of God.

Before we can do right we must see what we are doing that is wrong and stop doing it. John the Baptist was a prophet, the first prophet the people had had for four hundred years. The people were helped to see this by the fact that John lived and looked like the old prophets of whom they had heard. Read 2 Kings 1:8.

Where did John live?

What did he wear?

What was his food?

The people flocked to hear him and believed that what he told them came from God. He first pointed out the sins into which they had fallen and told them to repent. Then he baptized them in the water of the Jordan. We all know that water is the symbol of truth. Baptism with water is the sign that we want to make our lives clean by learning the Lord's truth and obeying it. You know perhaps that when you were baptized, your parents promised to try to bring you up to obey the truth as our Lord Jesus Christ showed it to us. He Himself made baptism the Christian sign.

In verse 7 of our chapter, what did John say?

With what did he say the Lord would baptize?

What was seen after Jesus was baptized?

What did the voice from heaven say?

This showed John and all the people present that Jesus was the promised Messiah or Christ — Messiah is the Hebrew word and Christ the Greek word meaning "the anointed one." Read Isaiah 9:6. They knew from this prophecy that the Messiah would be called the Son of God while He was in the world but that He would really be "the everlasting Father" come down into a form which men could see.

Where did the Lord go after His baptism?

What happened to Him there?

The rest of our chapter tells of the beginning of the Lord's ministry. He went about teaching, preaching, and healing. People began to follow Him in crowds. Some came just to see the wonderful things He did, but others came because they wanted to learn and obey. The Lord knew that He could not stay in the world very long. So part of His work was to give special instruction to a few chosen followers who would be able and willing to carry the Gospel — the "good news" - of His life to all the world after He should have left their visible presence. We learn in this chapter how He found and called the first four of these chosen disciples.

What were their names?

We shall learn about the others in a later lesson.

The Lord began almost immediately to perform miracles. A miracle means simply a "wonderful" thing, but we use the word to describe acts which only the Lord could do. Three miracles are described in this chapter and many others referred to. We also learn that He taught in the synagogue in Capernaum.

