
=== Notes for Parents

In this course [in the original four-year cycle], when we come to the New Testament we study the life of the Lord from a different Gospel each year. Now we have come to the Gospel of Mark. The four Gospels were all written under inspiration from the Lord: that is, the Lord dictated to the writers the words they were to use just as He spoke to the old prophets. But He always used words and facts which were in the mind of the writer. So the four Gospels give us four different viewpoints and altogether present a complete picture.

Mark does not give us the Christmas story but begins immediately with the first public appearance of the Lord when He came from Nazareth to the Jordan to be baptized by John. We are told in all the Gospels that John was the messenger promised in the Old Testament by Malachi and also by Isaiah, the messenger who was to go before the Lord "to prepare His way." The way of the Lord has to be prepared with all of us. You know how your children, at those times when they are bent on having their own way, will not listen to any loving, gentle arguments from you, but go on until they have to be punished for their naughtiness. We grown people are pretty much the same way, aren't we? When we are determined to get something for ourselves, we won't listen to advice even from our best friend. And before we will listen to the Lord's teaching about being unselfish and loving the neighbor, we have to be brought somehow to realize the bad things that are in us and to want to get rid of them. This was the kind of preparation the people received from John the Baptist, which opened their minds and hearts to recognize and welcome the Lord.

Baptism with water is a symbol of the desire to have our souls made clean by truth from the Lord. The Lord Himself by being baptized made it the Christian sign, and He afterward commanded His apostles to baptize in His name. Baptism shows that we want to be His followers and to bring up our children to follow Him, too. It opens a place for Him in our hearts and minds.

