
=== Primary

The story of the Lord's baptism should be made the basis of telling the children in a simple way why they were baptized and connecting this with their coming to Sunday school to learn about the Lord and how He wants us to live. As part of the introduction the prophecies in Malachi should be read, and the children should be told why it was necessary for someone to prepare the way of the Lord.

What event marks the beginning of the New Testament?

Where was the Lord born?

Where did He grow up?

Who was sent before the Lord to prepare His way?

How did he prepare it?

Where did John live?

What was his clothing?

What was his food?

Where did he baptize?

How did he say the Lord would baptize?

When you were a baby, your parents brought you to church to be baptized. The minister took you in his arms, put a little water on your head, gave you the name your parents had chosen for you, and received you into the Christian Church. Your parents promised to do all they could to bring you up to be a true follower of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the angels who were near knew that now you belonged among Christians in this world and in their world too. Baptism is the Christian sign.

Our story today tells us how our Lord, when He was in the world, taught us this by being baptized Himself.

The Lord was about thirty years old when He came to John to be baptized. Most of the people knew nothing about Him.

Only a very few had even heard of the wonderful signs which were given at His birth.

But they knew from the prophecies in the Old Testament that someday the Lord would come.

They knew from Isaiah 9:6 that He would be called the Son of God but that He would really be God Himself.

Baptism with water was a sign that the life of the person was to be clean.

What appeared when He was baptized?

What did the voice from heaven say?

So John and all the people who saw and heard knew that this was the promised savior.

Where did the Lord go as soon as He was baptized?

What happened to Him there?

