
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Show this class the reason why some of the captives of Judah had to return from Babylon to the Holy Land and also the reason why their history after the return is not part of the Word. The first two quotations at the end of the lesson furnish the basis for this discussion. The necessity for John's work, according to the statement in Malachi 4:6, should be discussed, together with the application to our own lives and the care of divine providence in protecting us from accepting truth which we are unwilling to use in life. Stress the meaning of baptism and its importance as a sacrament. When the people of Judah were carried away captive to Babylon, some of the poorer people were left in the land, and it was also prophesied that the faithful among the captives would eventually be allowed to return. The books of Ezra and Nehemiah (which do not have an inner sense) tell the story of this return. After seventy years of captivity "the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia," who was at this time ruling over Babylon, to proclaim that all the captives who wished to return and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple might do so. He also commanded that those who did not choose to return should help their brethren with money and other gifts, and he himself restored to them the gold and silver vessels of the temple which had been taken to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar. About fifty thousand people returned at this time and another thousand or more returned later with Ezra under Artaxerxes. The temple was rebuilt and all the forms of worship were re—established. The prophets Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi belong to this period. Their mission was to promote the rebuilding of the temple, to rebuke the people for the evils into which they had fallen, and to foretell the coming of the Messiah. But we should note that after Malachi no prophet arose for four hundred years. Although those who returned did not fall back into open idolatry and continued to read the Law and the Prophets and to observe the rites which preserved the connection between heaven and earth, their history no longer represented anything spiritual. So it does not appear as part of the Word. We are told in the writings of Swedenborg that it was necessary for them to return because the Lord had to come into the world among those who had the Word and in the land whose mountains and rivers and forests had been used representatively in the Word. But the writing of the Word itself was not continued until He came.

---
We are studying the story of the Lord's life from the Gospel of Mark. The four Gospels give us this story from four points of view, complementing each other. We notice immediately that Mark does not give us any account of the Lord's birth and childhood. He takes up the story at the time when the Lord — at about the age of thirty - came forth from Nazareth to begin His active ministry. We remember from the Christmas lessons that very few people actually knew of Him at the time of His birth. So the beginning of the Gospel of Mark helps us to understand how most of the people must first have heard of Him.

We must remember that all the people were brought up on the story of the wonderful history of their nation, of the miracles Jehovah had wrought for them in the old days and the great prophets who had been sent to them. Now suddenly in their own day they again had a prophet. John the Baptist lived in the wilderness. He wore the hairy mantle and leathern girdle of the old prophets. And he spoke with the same powerful, chiding voice which they heard from the scrolls in their synagogues. They flocked to hear him. He showed them their sins, and they saw and confessed them and were baptized by Him in Jordan. They were familiar with ritual washings. But John also, like the earlier prophets, spoke of the long-awaited Messiah. Indeed he said that the time was at hand, that he himself was the messenger of the Advent spoken of by their last prophet, Malachi (Malachi 3:1; 4:5-6). Then one day, as John was baptizing, a stranger from Nazareth appeared, and when He was baptized, the heavens opened, a dove descended upon Him, and a voice told them that this was the Son of God.

The Lord came to "fulfill" the Law and the Prophets. We know that this meant that He lived out before men the inner truth of the Word. But He also in many instances fulfilled the literal prophecies. The people were accustomed to think of the Messiah as the "Son of God," but they knew that this "Son" would be no other than Jehovah Himself wearing the form of a man of flesh and blood. Read Isaiah 9:6. All who were truly prepared by recognizing their own sins and need of help received Him. In Malachi 4:6 we learn that if John had not been sent to prepare His way, the Lord's coming would have smitten the earth with a curse. Does this seem strange? We can understand it by a very simple example. The man or woman today who professes to believe in the Lord while in his heart he does not desire or intend to obey Him is the person who not only does the Christian Church on earth most harm but also is himself a hypocrite and is most surely headed for the hells. Read what the Lord said of the scribes and Pharisees in Matthew 23:23-33. Read also John 3:19. The great body of the people rejected and crucified the Lord not because He did not fulfill the Law and the Prophets and prove Himself to be the Messiah, but because they did not want to live the truth He showed them. The good in heart, who are represented by those who listened to John, repented, and were baptized — washed clean by the truth — were the ones to whom the Lord's coming was a blessing. It is the same today.

Mark gives only two verses to the Lord's forty days in the wilderness tempted of the devil, which Matthew and Luke describe in more detail. He passes immediately to the calling of the first disciples, the beginning of the Lord's preaching in the synagogues, and His miraculous healings. Mark himself was not one of the apostles although, since his mother was prominent among the early Christians (Acts 12:12), he undoubtedly knew the Lord and witnessed some of the things he describes. He was later a close companion of Peter. So he had in his mind the facts which enabled the Lord to use him as one of the writers of the Word.

