
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: What is the whole story of the Old Testament about? history of Israel

Primary: What event marks the beginning of the New Testament? birth of Jesus Christ

Junior: Why were the Jews allowed to return from Babylon? to re—establish Judaism in Canaan

Junior: What three prophets prophesied after the return? Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi

Primary: Who was the last of these? Malachi

Junior: How many years passed after the time of Malachi before the Lord was born? about four hundred

Senior: Why are the events of these years not described in the Word? no prophet arose

Primary: How many Gospels are there? four

Junior: Why did the Lord give us so many accounts of His life? fill out one another

Junior: What can you tell about Mark? John Marcus, mother Christian, traveled with Peter

Primary: At what point in the Lord's life does Mark's Gospel begin? baptism of the Lord

Junior: What prophecy did John the Baptist fulfill? Malachi's

Primary: Where did he live? wilderness

Primary: What did he wear? camel's hair, leather belt

Primary: What was his food? locusts and wild honey

Junior: What was his message? Repent!

Intermediate: What does baptism represent? cleansing lives with the Lord's truth

Primary: Who came from Nazareth to be baptized? Jesus

Primary: What happened when the Lord was baptized? Spirit descended like dove

Junior: What did the voice from heaven say? "Thou art my beloved Son"

Junior: Who were the first four men the Lord called to be His disciples? Simon Peter, Andrew, James, John

Intermediate: What is the rest of our chapter about? beginning of Lord's ministry of teaching, preaching, and healing

== NEW WINE — Mark 2

Review briefly the last lesson, calling attention especially to the latter part of chapter 1, as the connection with today's lesson can be made most easily by speaking of the miracles, and pointing out again that the Lord's ministry had three parts: preaching, teaching, and healing, and that the physical healings were always done as signs of His power to heal the souls of men.

