
=== Adult

This story is one of many in the Bible given to shake us out of the easygoing self-satisfaction into which we all sometimes fall. The various elements which took part in the rebellion and the variety in their punishments make interesting discussion material.

We have seen that the wilderness journey of the Israelites pictures, in the life of the man or woman "who is to be regenerated," as Swedenborg frequently puts it, the period of reformation — that long, slow process of bringing the outward life into order from a principle of obedience to the commandments — which comes between the free decision to turn away from self toward the Lord and the real enjoyment of spiritual living which is regeneration. That period from its very beginning is punctuated by times of dissatisfaction, discouragement, and rebellion. The old selfish, worldly desires and reasonings persist, festering under the surface even as we plod forward, and from time to time breaking out, in spite of the constant evidences we have of the Lord's presence with us and power to save us and to supply all our needs. Sometimes these rebellious outbreaks are mere murmurings, quickly stilled by the Lord's merciful provision. But sometimes, as in our story today, they are the culmination of a long-unnoticed conspiracy of self-love and self-intelligence within us.

The rebellion which is the subject of our lesson came into the open when it found a leader in Korah. Korah was a Levite, a member of the tribe set apart by the Lord for the service of the tabernacle. But he was not of the house of Aaron, and only Aaron and his descendants could actually be priests. In the literal story Korah resents his subordinate position and tries to overthrow the authority of Moses and Aaron. The name Korah means "baldness"; conversely, hair represents outmost truth. Korah knew that Moses and Aaron had been specially appointed by the Lord, but his ambition prompted him to try to get around the acceptance of the literal fact. In order to do so he drew upon other statements of the Lord which he could interpret in support of his contention. His statement in verse 3 is taken from the Lord's words to Moses as recorded for us in Exodus 19:6. Isn't this something we church people are all prone to do? We profess to believe that the Word is inspired by the Lord and — in the New Church — that Swedenborg was the Lord's instrument in opening the Word and revealing its true doctrine; but when something in the Word or the writings runs counter to what we want to believe, we try to discount it and to find other statements more to our liking, instead of really examining what we read to find out the truth and applying it by changing our thought and conduct. The two hundred and fifty "princes of the assembly" who supported Korah in his rebellion represent just such precepts of the Word, given to govern us but taken out of their context and used to support us in doing what we like. This is what Swedenborg calls the "falsification of truth."

The punishment for such misuse of the truth is described in the punishment of the two hundred and fifty princes: "there came out a fire from the Lord, and consumed them." The "fire" which proceeds from the Lord is unselfish love. It is the very life of life which maintains us from moment to moment. When we profess to be seeking this life and then turn it into self-love, our souls perish. The brazen censers are a symbol of outward worship, the fire in them the motive which prompts it, and the incense the petitions we are offering in our minds. When we go to church professing to believe in the Lord and to be worshiping Him, and are really thinking about how good we are and hoping our worship will be properly credited to us and praying that we may be given the things we want, we are like Korah and the princes. We must note, however, that after these men were destroyed, the censers were preserved. People have been known to excuse themselves from going to church on the ground that there were "so many hypocrites in the churches." External worship is right and necessary. We cannot safely do without it. But our worship should be a humble offering of ourselves to the Lord and not an exaltation of self. This is what is meant by beating the censers into plates to cover the great altar of sacrifice.

There were two other groups concerned in the rebellion of Korah. One was the three Reubenites, Dathan, Abiram, and On. On is mentioned only in the first instance and apparently obeyed Moses and withdrew from the company of the others, as he was not included in their destruction. Reuben, Jacob's first son, represents faith — specifically faith in the understanding. This is the first step in the development of spiritual life; we must acknowledge divine truth with our minds before we do anything useful with it. But if we go no further than intellectual acknowledgment, divine truth has no real effect on our lives. Dathan and Abiram would not go to the tabernacle at the call of Moses. They stood in the door of their tents. Whenever we — any of us — fall into the idea that because we have joined the church and give lip service to the Lord we shall get to heaven without making any real effort to learn the truths of the Word and apply them in our daily lives, we are living in faith alone. When we do not try to learn of the Lord and to obey Him, we are led by our own ideas and the ideas of the world about us. We have cut ourselves off from the light of heaven. And eventually the earth opens her mouth and swallows us up and we go down alive into the pit (Sheol) just as really as Dathan and Abiram did. And all the affections and thoughts and deeds which we have produced and in which we take such pride are dragged down with us. Worldliness and self-interest are in all that we do.

The other group concerned in the rebellion were the people.

"The people" are all our everyday thoughts and feelings. When Dathan and Abiram insisted on remaining by their own tents instead of coming to the tabernacle, Moses gave the people a solemn warning: "Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed in all their sins." We are told in @AC 10130 that "by 'touching' is signified communication, transfer, and reception." Our minds touch other people's minds constantly in the course of our daily life in the world. How easily we fall into the habit of agreeing with our acquaintances without stopping to think whether we really should agree or not! It is so much easier to agree than to think, and the matter in question often seems unimportant. But in this way our own thinking is colored by the ideas of the world about us, and we sometimes wake up and realize that what we have been accepting as a matter of course is actually quite contrary to the principles we profess to hold. The Lord said, "Take heed how ye hear." In our story the people did withdraw from the tents of Dathan and Abiram, but many had been so tainted with the spirit of the rebellion that they still murmured, even after the terrible object lessons they received, and their murmuring took the form of the charge that Moses and Aaron were responsible for the death of their friends. This, too, strikes home to us. How often, when we can no longer deny that we have been wrong, our first impulse is to blame someone else for our condition! The plague which struck among the people who murmured is a picture of the spiritual consequences of refusing to acknowledge and repent of our own sins. Every time of rebellion and disobedience in our lives leaves its trail of consequences in our minds and hearts. The plague was stopped by Aaron by means of a censer full of fire from the altar and incense laid upon it. If we look to the Lord for help with sincere humility and a desire to be shown our weaknesses and evils and are led to serve Him truly, the effects of our rebellion can be checked.

