
=== Notes for Parents

The story for today is a strange one. Did these startling and terrible punishments actually overtake the people who rebelled against Moses and Aaron so long ago?

When men began to become absorbed in the study of the natural world, they found it so fascinating that many lost their balance and came to think that this world is all there is. They seemed to think that the natural world came into existence somehow all by itself and developed by its own power, and that man is just the highest of the animals and has somehow managed to improve his own condition and become civilized. Such people of course reject as impossible the miracles of both the Old and the New Testaments. The most unfortunate part of it is that their attitude has had a strong influence on others because they pose as the "thinkers" of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram of the day. So even among people who see that nature could not have created itself and that there must be a God, an intelligent being behind all creation, there is an idea that we must explain the miracles in some natural way. In the case of our story for today, for instance, they would say that there just happened to be an earthquake and probably a bolt of lightning and the beginning of a plague at about the same time, and that Moses took advantage of them to strengthen his position.

But nothing in the world just happens. There are causes for everything, and behind the natural causes there are spiritual causes. Not only everything we do but everything we think and feel affects the world around us and helps or hinders the Lord in His effort to bless mankind. Sometimes men can be waked up out of their self-satisfaction and selfish ambitions only by being allowed to suffer the actual physical effects of their denial of God, and sometimes good people can be stirred to action only by being shown that these effects fall on the innocent as well as on the guilty. Korah, Dathan, and Abiram and those who supported them in their rebellion had to be made object lessons in order to prevent all the people from destroying themselves.

And the Lord included their story in the Bible as an object lesson for us. It is not hard to read the lesson. Those who pretend to worship the Lord in order to further selfish ambition are turning the unselfish love which comes to them from the Lord and from which they live from day to day into self-love, which ultimately "burns them up." Those who refuse to worship the Lord at all and insist on following their own will and understanding — staying in the door of their own tents instead of going to the tabernacle — are swallowed up by the earth: worldliness destroys their spiritual life. And everyone who lets either of these two foolish attitudes influence him is plagued by evils which may destroy him also.

