
=== Primary

The story from the Word is more impressive than any retelling of it could be.

Read to the children verses 1-7 and 18-35 of the chapter. The lessons to be drawn are the foolishness of jealousy and wanting always to be first, and especially of wanting our own way instead of the Lord's way. Some of these children are old enough to begin to think about obedience to the Lord as well as to their elders.

Do you remember how Moses was given power from the Lord to bring the plagues upon the Egyptians? And Moses by the same power had brought water out of the rock for the people at Rephidim, and he had been the one to whom the Lord at Sinai had given all the laws for the government of the people and the directions for building and furnishing the tabernacle. Wouldn't you think that all the people would have been quite sure that Moses was the one chosen by the Lord to govern them?

But you know sometimes we become jealous of anyone who has been made a leader. When you children are playing together, isn't each one of you likely to want to tell the others what to do?

There was a man named Korah who became jealous of Moses and of Moses' brother Aaron, whom the Lord had appointed to be high priest. Moses and Aaron were descendants of Jacob's son Levi, and the whole tribe of Levi had been set apart by the Lord to take care of the tabernacle; but only Aaron and his sons could be priests.

Of what tribe was Korah?

What two other men joined with him?

The fourth man, On, is mentioned only once.

How did Moses propose to settle the question of leadership? 

What happened to Dathan and Abiram and their families?

What happened to Korah and the two hundred and fifty men who offered incense?

What happened to the people who still murmured? 

How did Aaron stop the plague?

What did they do with the censers of the rebels?

The Lord gives us this story in the Bible to set us thinking about how foolish it is for us to imagine that we know better than the Lord how things should be done.

