
=== Intermediate

The Intermediates will be interested in the correspondence of the details of the vision. The principles suggested by these details will make good discussion material. The lesson of humility and willingness to serve is especially needed.

The books of the Prophets are not arranged in the Bible exactly in their historical order. Of the four Major Prophets the first two prophesied in the Holy Land — Jeremiah also wrote the book of Lamentations in Egypt after the captivity of Judah — and the last two prophesied from captivity outside the land. The ancient Hebrews did not recognize either the book of Lamentations or the book of Daniel as part of the inspired Word because they were not written in the Holy Land. They did include Ezekiel, probably because he says frequently that he was "carried in the spirit to Jerusalem" and much of his prophecy concerns the visions that he had at these times. Isaiah and Jeremiah, writing during the last years of the kingdom of Judah, were both subject to persecution because they were called to rebuke the people and to prophesy doom, and this is never popular. Daniel and Ezekiel both prospered in captivity. Ezekiel was looked up to by the other exiles, who listened gladly to his visions and looked to him for counsel. Daniel was one of the young men specially trained as advisers to the king of Babylon and was advanced to high position, holding favor with successive kings because of his ability to interpret dreams and to advise wisely and because of the miraculous protection which he received from the Lord.

The book of the prophet Isaiah, from which our present lesson is taken, is one of the longer books of the Bible and contains many verses familiar to us, and because we read of Isaiah in connection with King Hezekiah in the second book of Kings, he stands out in our minds as an individual. The varieties of study in the book and the fact that in the last twenty-seven chapters events are described which took place after Isaiah's time have led critics to assume that the book must have been written by several authors rather than by one, but tradition and the testimony of the New Testament support Isaiah's authorship. Believing as we do that the Lord is the author of the inspired Scriptures throughout, the identity of the human penmen is of comparatively minor importance; yet we should be careful not to accept without thought the theories of scholars who begin their study of the Bible with the premise that it is, like other books, merely the work of men. If one starts out on the wrong road, the farther he travels the farther he may get from his true destination.

Our chapter, which describes Isaiah's call, gives us both in the letter and in its internal meaning a clear picture of what is required of one who would speak for the Lord. There must first be a "seeing" of the Lord; Isaiah's vision of the Lord sitting upon the throne is, like John's [Revelation 1], the recognition that the Lord is the truth and that His truth must reign. The seraphim with six wings picture the power of divine truth to protect the inner character (the face) and the conduct (the feet) and to lift one's thoughts above the material level.

Isaiah's first reaction to this vision was fear because of his own unworthiness, another essential for a true prophet. "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom." [Psalm 111:10] The coal from the altar with which the seraph touched his lips pictures a spark of divine love — pure, unselfish love — which alone can cleanse the heart of unworthy feelings and enable the lips to speak the truth. Then Isaiah heard the voice saying, "Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?" This pictures the understanding that the Lord needs individual men and women to do His work in the world. The Lord's call comes to each one of us. If we think of ourselves, we shall immediately imagine all the sacrifice and difficulty which devotion to the Lord's service will involve. But if we really wish to be good people, we shall be willing, like Isaiah, to accept the call personally, and to answer, "Here am I; send me."

The rest of the chapter tells Isaiah plainly how the people would receive his message. Some would close their ears, being too satisfied with themselves to wish to change or to think of possible consequences. But a few would listen and take the message to heart and would serve as the remnant through whom the Lord's church could be rebuilt. This is a lesson which we find several times in the Word. Each of us should try not to be of the self-satisfied ones who close their ears to the Lord's teaching. But also the thought should encourage us when sometimes we try to give others the truths of the New Church and they are not received. If we keep trying faithfully, we shall certainly find a few who will welcome what the Lord has entrusted to us to give them, and we shall be preserving and increasing the Lord's kingdom on earth and in the heavens.

