
=== Junior

These children will be interested in some of the historical data regarding the four prophets. It is a good time to show them on a map the relative positions of the great Bible countries: Canaan, Egypt, Assyria, and Babylon. Have them look up the Bible references mentioned in their notes. They can also get something of the meaning of Isaiah's vision.

---
Into what two great parts is the Bible divided?

Jews today, as long ago, use only the first part, the Old Testament. They divide the Old Testament into three parts: the Law, the Prophets, and the Sacred Writings. The Law is the first five books, the books of Moses. The Prophets are grouped in two parts, the former and the latter prophets. Under the former prophets are the books which we usually think of as the historical books: Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings. They were, of course, all written through prophets just as much as the later ones. The latter prophets are the ones we usually think of as the prophets, the last books of the old Testament from Isaiah through Malachi, except that the Jews do not group the books of Lamentations and Daniel with the prophets but put them with eleven other books in a section called the Kethubim or Sacred Writings, which they do not consider as of equal inspiration with the Law and the Prophets. You may like to remember that the New Church accepts the Hebrew "canon" or measure of the Word in the old Testament with the addition of the books of Psalms, Lamentations, and Daniel. Someday you will learn the reasons behind this acceptance.

We think of the first four of the books which are called by the name of individual prophets as the Major Prophets and the others as the Minor Prophets. Major means greater and minor lesser, but this has reference only to the length of these books. All the prophets are of equal importance. The four Major Prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. Jeremiah was a prophet in Judah under its last five kings before the captivity and continued to prophesy in Egypt after the people of Judah were carried away to Babylon; he wrote the book of Lamentations in Egypt. Ezekiel and Daniel were among those carried away from Judah. Ezekiel prophesied in Mesopotamia, where he lived near the river Chebar, and Daniel prophesied in Babylon. Our lesson today is about Isaiah.

In the time of what kings did Isaiah live?

Whom did Isaiah see in vision?

What did he see above the Lord's throne?

Why was he afraid?

Read Exodus 30:20, 33:20. He recognized that he and all the people had sinned, and he thought that the vision must cause his death.

How were his lips cleansed?

Fire from the altar is a picture of pure unselfish love from the Lord. It was the touch of this divine love which would make Isaiah worthy to speak the Lord's words.

Once Isaiah felt that he was purified, he was ready to serve the Lord. Sometimes we know there are things we ought to do, but we think of how hard they are and we hang back. Isaiah, knowing the sins of the people, knew that he would be called upon to say many hard things to them. The prophets never had an easy time. So it took real courage to say, "Here am I; send me." This is the kind of courage we must develop if we are to be found worthy to bring to others the message the Lord has given the world in His Second Coming.

