
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Concentrate on Isaiah's vision, which gives even the little children a vivid picture to hold in mind. They should learn if possible the names of the four books known as the Major Prophets and should know what the mission of a prophet was. In describing the vision, point out especially Isaiah's humility and his willingness to be used by the Lord as soon as he was assured that he was made worthy.

---
Do you know what a prophet is?

A prophet is one who speaks for the Lord.

The Lord has always sent prophets to speak for Him.

They told the people what they were doing that was wrong.

They told them what would happen to them if they did not change.

They also told them what was right and how happy they would be if they did right.

Do you remember the great prophet Elijah who built the altar to the Lord, and how the Lord sent down fire from heaven on Elijah's altar to show the people that Elijah's God was the true God? Elijah was a prophet in the kingdom of Israel.

The Lord used some of these prophets to write books which are in our Bible. The prophets did not make up their books out of their own heads. The Lord told them just what words to write. So you see the Lord Himself is really speaking to us when we read the books of the Prophets.

Sixteen of the books of our Bible are called by the names of prophets. There are four long books and twelve short ones.

The four are called the Major Prophets and the twelve the Minor Prophets. The prophet Jeremiah also wrote the book of Lamentations.

Can you remember the names of the four Major Prophets?

Our story today is about how Isaiah was called to be the Lord's prophet. Isaiah did not prophesy in Israel, as Elijah did. He was sent to the kingdom of Judah, and he prophesied during the reigns of four of the kings of Judah.

What did he see first in his vision?

Can you tell something about the seraphim who were above the throne of the Lord?

Why did Isaiah feel himself to be unworthy?

What did the seraph do for him?

Do you remember what he said when the Lord asked, "Whom shall I send?" Are you always eager to do the things your parents ask you to do? If you are not, try next time to remember Isaiah.

