
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The difference in correspondence between the wilderness journey and the conquest of the Holy Land should be made clear and the difference in our own attitude during reformation and regeneration. The place of the law in each state and the manner of the Lord's dealing with us is an important lesson. The connection with the two Christian sacraments should be stressed. The teacher — knowing his pupils — should decide beforehand just how much to say about circumcision. He should be prepared with a simple answer to a possible question about it so that he will not be caught off guard and in doubt as to what to say.

---
The wilderness journey pictures the period of reformation, the time when we are trying to put our outward conduct in order in obedience to the law of the Lord. Moses represents the law as it appears to us at this time. It seems harsh and we do not like to obey it any more than the Israelites enjoyed obeying Moses. We stay in this state of reformation until doing right becomes a habit and all our rebellious thoughts and feelings die out, just as the Israelites had to stay in the wilderness until all those who chose to listen to the ten cowardly spies had died. Then Moses dies. This does not mean that we no longer need to obey the law of the Lord, but the law has ceased to appear harsh. We see it now as our friend and protector, something to be followed with confidence and courage. Joshua, the "truth fighting," has become our leader. Read the Lord's charge to Joshua in Joshua 1:7-9.

At the time of our lesson for today the Israelites have crossed the Jordan — which the Lord parted miraculously for them as He had at the Red Sea — and are finally in the Holy Land itself. The conquest of the Holy Land, of which the book of Joshua treats, pictures the process of regeneration, the time when we are trying to discover and overcome not just our outward bad habits but the evils and falsities which are in our hearts and minds. We do this not from fear of punishment or from hope of reward but because we have begun to love to serve the Lord and are eager to make ourselves all that He wants us to be.

The first encampment of the Israelites in the Holy Land was called Gilgal, a word which means "rolling," and verse 9 of our chapter tells us why it was so named. Egypt, we remember, pictures the plane of external knowledge and in a bad sense — when the Egyptians held the Israelites in slavery — it means worldliness. We are all naturally worldly — inclined to think of this world and success in it as the important thing in life — and this "reproach of Egypt" is not rolled away from us until we are ready of our own accord to follow the Lord's truth as leader.

Several interesting things happened at Gilgal. First Joshua set up there the twelve stones which had been picked up from the bed of the Jordan as the people crossed (Joshua 4:1-5, 20-24). The Jordan as the boundary of the Holy Land represents the introductory truths of the regenerate life. The setting up of the twelve stones from Jordan at Gilgal as a memorial emphasizes our need never to forget this part of the Lord's charge to Joshua: "This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success." We never reach the point when we no longer need to read and study the Word and to keep the commandments.

Then Joshua was commanded to circumcise all the children of Israel. Circumcision signified to the Jews that a person was of their own church, and they had been told to circumcise every male child when he was eight days old. But they had neglected this rite all through the wilderness journey. Circumcision represents purification from selfish and worldly loves, and Swedenborg tells us that the sacrament of baptism takes the place of circumcision for the Christian Church.

After the circumcision at Gilgal the next thing they did was to celebrate the Passover. We remember that the Passover feast was to be celebrated on the fourteenth day of the first month of the Jewish year as a memorial of their deliverance from Egypt; so their arrival in the Holy Land had been timed by the Lord to coincide with the beginning of a new year. In the Word the time when a thing happens is always important; it is never accidental. For the Christian Church, the sacrament of the Lord's Supper takes the place of the Passover. So you see we learn from our chapter that baptism and the Holy Supper are the orderly basis on which we begin a regenerate life.

Then on the day after the Passover the manna ceased. The manna represents goodness from the Lord provided for our gathering day by day when we are trying to do right from a sense of duty. The people had been fed with it throughout their wilderness journey. At times they got very tired of it, as we learn from Numbers 21:5, but they could not live without it. When they entered the Holy Land, however, the barrenness of the wilderness was behind them. Now they could eat immediately "of the old corn" [produce of the land] and presently they would be sowing seed and raising their own grain. In the regenerate state there is goodness which is lasting, which does not — as the manna did — melt when the sun comes up or spoil if we try to keep it.

Finally Joshua has a vision of the Lord in the form of an angel with a drawn sword in his hand. Joshua was to be a fighting leader and was to have great success, but he was never to forget that it was the Lord who gave him all his power. Our chapter begins with the statement that the enemies of Israel in the Holy Land were brought into a state of weakness and fear not by the strength of the army of Israel but by the fact that the Lord had parted the Jordan for their passage. And in the end of the chapter Joshua is told to take off his shoes because the ground is holy. Our shoes, spiritually speaking, are our natural ideas in which we walk from day to day. If we are to regenerate — to be "born again" — we must see and acknowledge and never for a moment forget that it is from the Lord alone that we receive power to overcome our spiritual foes, and that a heavenly character is not mere morality and the kind of good works which bring us respect and praise in the world. Heaven is "holy ground," made so not by us but by the presence of the Lord.

