
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Children notes suggest an adequate approach to the lesson by way of a reminder of the story of the spies and an account of the death of Moses and the charge to Joshua. Have the children look up and read the Bible references in their notes. The order of events at Gilgal should be learned.

---
Why did the people not go into the Holy Land when they first came near its border?

What was their punishment for not trusting the Lord?

What two men were to be exempt from this punishment?

It was forty years before all these older people had died. Moses himself was the last to go. When finally the pillar of cloud and fire led them again to the southern border of Canaan, Moses was allowed to see the Promised Land from the top of Mount Nebo. Then he died, and we are told in Deuteronomy 34:6 that the Lord "buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Beth-peor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day." He was a hundred and twenty years old when he died, and it is said: "His eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated." Deuteronomy, the "repetition of the law," is the last of the five books of Moses, which are called the Pentateuch.

The book of Joshua, from which our lesson for today is taken, tells the story of the conquest, division, and settling of the Holy Land itself. In the very first chapter of Deuteronomy, verse 38, Moses has told the people that Joshua is to be his successor as their leader. The first chapter of Joshua, verses 7-9, tells of the Lord's charge to Joshua after the death of Moses, when He told him to "observe to do according to all the law," and to "meditate therein day and night," and ended: "For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee, whithersoever thou goest." Joshua was a fighting leader. You remember we first heard of him when he led the fighting men of Israel in the battle with Amalek at Rephidim, and he and Caleb were the two spies who told the people at Kadesh that they ought to go ahead and conquer the land because, no matter how strong the enemies were there, the Lord was with them and would give them the victory.

There is one incident in the crossing which you may not remember, but which is important for our lesson today. Read Joshua 4:1-5, 19-24. You remember that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob built altars to the Lord in various places, both for worship and to remind the people of all the Lord had done for them. And Moses built an altar at Rephidim after the victory over Amalek. And now one of the first things Joshua does in the Holy Land is to set up these twelve stones at Gilgal as a memorial of the miracle performed by the Lord at Jordan. Gratitude to the Lord for the many blessings He brings us should be in our hearts always.

Now read Genesis 17:9-12, which tells of the beginning of the rite of circumcision among the Jews back in the time of Abraham. The Israelites had continued to observe this rite throughout their history until they entered the wilderness. Then it was neglected, and Joshua knew that it must be resumed if he was to keep the law. Baptism takes the place of circumcision for the Christian Church.

What was the name of the first encampment of the Israelites in the Holy Land?

Gilgal means "rolling."

Why was it given this name?

What feast did the people observe at Gilgal?

What does verse 11 say they ate the day after the Passover? What stopped on the same day?

Why do you think it stopped?

We want to remember these things which happened at Gilgal, for they were all a necessary preparation for the conquest; and we want to notice the beginning and end of our chapter, too. The protection and power of the Lord were clearly with Joshua from the beginning. In fact, the name Joshua means "savior" and its Greek form is Jesus.

Gilgal remained the headquarters of the Israelites for some time, for after the conquest of the cities of Jericho and Ai we find it said of the Gibeonites in Joshua 9:6: "And they went to Joshua unto the camp at Gilgal." The rolling away of the reproach of Egypt, from which Gilgal took its name, was the final firm establishment of the children of Israel as a free people in the land which had been promised to their fathers.

