
=== Notes for Parents

Finally, after forty years, the children of Israel were led to the brink of the Jordan River with the Holy Land before them. All the rebellious men had died — Moses last of all just before they reached Jordan. Only Joshua and Caleb were left. The young people had grown up and Joshua was now their leader. When we have followed the leadership of Moses — the law of the Lord — long enough so that the orderly outward life has become habitual with us and all our rebellious feelings and thoughts have died out, we are ready for a new state.

Everyone recognizes the Holy Land in the Bible story as a symbol of heaven. What they do not always recognize is that heaven begins in this world. If we do not, while we are in this world, develop the kind of character which is heavenly, we shall not choose to live in heaven after we die. The Lord, when He was in the world, said, "Ye must be born again." We are born children of the world. We must become children of God by learning about our heavenly Father and cultivating in our own hearts and minds the qualities of unselfish love and true wisdom which we find in Him. This is regeneration, for which the conquest of the Holy Land stands. The enemies in the Holy Land are the evils and falsities which are in our own hearts and minds.

The Lord parted the waters of Jordan, as He had parted those of the Red Sea, so that the Israelites could pass through. If we obey the Lord, He will always open the way before us. Their first encampment in the Holy Land was at Gilgal, a word which means "rolling," and verse 9 of our chapter tells us that it was so called because there the Lord "rolled away the reproach of Egypt" from them. In Egypt they were slaves. Now they were free men with a country of their own. In John 15:15 the Lord says to His disciples, "Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you." When we enter the Holy Land of a regenerate state, we no longer look back with longing to our bad habits, obeying the Lord unwillingly and without understanding. We set out eagerly under a fighting leader to hunt down and destroy our inward foes.

But there are things we must remember, and our chapter is a reminder of these. We must continue to obey the commandments, which never change. Read Joshua 4:1-5,20-24. We must keep our outward lives clean (verses 2-8). We must be grateful to the Lord for our deliverance (verse 10). We must plant in our minds the seed of truth from the Word, cultivate it, and harvest the good grain (verses 11-12). And we must remember that the regenerate life is a holy life, put off the worldly ideas in which we naturally walk, and use the truths of the Lord to fight our inner selfishness (verses 13-15).

