
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Teens are nearing the age at which regeneration may begin, for regeneration is an adult process. They should learn from the events in this chapter just what the difference is between reformation and regeneration and what the essential basis of regeneration is. Stress the need for humility, for knowledge of the fundamental truths of the Word and of doctrine, for continual study of the Word, and for recognition of the importance of the sacraments.

---
Joshua and Caleb, the two spies who had stood out against the other ten and against the whole congregation when the people were afraid to trust the Lord and to undertake the conquest forty years before, were the only two men to enter the Holy Land out of all the adults who had crossed the Red Sea under Moses. It was a new generation for whom the Lord performed a similar miracle at Jordan.

So we can see immediately one explanation of verse 9 of our chapter for today (Gilgal means "rolling"). All through the wilderness journey the people had been looking back to Egypt, remembering the good things about their life there and forgetting the bad, because they were rebellious in the face of hardship and danger. This is a picture of our state when we are in the period of reformation, the time when we are trying to make our outward conduct over into the order required by divine law. We look back to certain pleasures we had before we decided to reform, forgetting the hard experiences which led us to the decision to reform, and we rebel against the principles which are leading us on. But if we persist our rebellion dies out a little at a time, until finally the law of the Lord is no longer a harsh taskmaster but a stirring leader. Moses is dead, and Joshua — the truth fighting — has taken his place.

The conquest of the Holy Land, which the book of Joshua tells us about, is the period of regeneration. We are born again. We feel ourselves to be really children of God going forward in His name and in His strength to overcome the deeper evils and falsities within ourselves which stand in the way of our possession of the Holy Land — a heavenly character. In the book of Joshua we find the people making occasional mistakes, one case of flagrant disobedience, and a falling short of the full conquest because of cowardice, but no more looking back to the purely worldly standards pictured by Egypt, and no more complaint and rebellion.

The crossing of the Jordan began a new life for the Israelites.

The entrance upon regeneration begins a new life for us. But we should recall the Lord's charge to Joshua in Joshua 1:7-9, which shows what is required of us, and our whole chapter for today is a solemn reminder that we are to go forward in the Lord's strength, not in our own.

The first item in this reminder is found in verses 19 to 24 of the preceding chapter. Joshua had been told by the Lord to have one man from each of the twelve tribes pick up a stone from the bed of the Jordan as they crossed. These twelve stones were then set up at Gilgal, their first encampment in the Holy Land, as a memorial of the miraculous crossing. The Jordan represents the introductory truths of the Christian faith, which we must never forget. We need indeed to study them continually.

Our chapter begins with the statement that the enemies in the Holy Land became weak when they learned how the Jordan had been parted by the Lord for the passage of Israel. It is recognition of the Lord's power to save which shows us the actual weakness of our spiritual enemies.

Then Joshua was ordered to circumcise the people. Circumcision represents cleansing from selfish and worldly lusts. It is the recognition that our natural will is not good but evil, and that goodness comes from the Lord alone as we obey Him. Circumcision was a rite which was specifically enjoined upon the Jews but had been neglected throughout the wilderness journey. When we are in the rebellious state of reformation. we are not willing to admit that our natural desires are evil. You will see in the quotation at the end of this lesson why baptism takes the place of circumcision for the Christian Church.

After the circumcision the Passover was celebrated. This again was a reminder that it was the Lord who had delivered them from the Egyptian state of bondage. In the Christian Church the Lord's Supper takes the place of the Passover.

Then on the day after the Passover the manna ceased, because they could now eat "of the old corn [produce] of the land." When we are in the reformation period, the goodness which is represented by bread and which gives us the strength to go forward cannot in any way be produced or preserved by us, because we are still in the state in which our constant desire is not to obey but to turn back to self and the world. In that state the Lord has to supply us day by day with just enough goodness to carry us through the temptations of the day. We must gather this in the early morning of each work day by looking to the Lord for it, but we cannot store it up. We do not understand it. You remember that manna means "What is it?" But when our rebellious thoughts and desires have died and we have been "born again," we understand what genuine goodness is and where it comes from, and we can begin to plant the seed of truth, to develop and eat the good grain, and to store it up in our permanent character, although it still is the Lord's and not ours.

The last three verses of our chapter — Joshua's vision of the Lord as a man of war and his recognition that the ground on which he stood was holy — is the final summing up of all these reminders designed to keep us progressing spiritually by means of the Lord's truth toward the stature which He wishes us to attain.

