
=== Notes for Parents

It is widely recognized that the land of Canaan represents heaven or a heavenly character, but few realize that all the countries mentioned in the Bible picture specific planes or states of our minds. There are three countries especially which are mentioned over and over again in the Bible: Canaan, Assyria, and Egypt. There are three major planes of mind in each of us: the inmost plane, where we feel the promptings of the Lord, the plane of our rational thinking, and the plane of our natural knowledge and thought. In the Bible, Canaan pictures the inmost plane, Assyria pictures the rational plane, and Egypt the outmost or natural plane. It is in this outmost plane that all our sense impressions are registered, the things we see and hear, what we read, and what we learn from other people. All these things are stored up in our memories, as Joseph stored up grain in Egypt, against the time of famine — the time when we become conscious of our need of knowledge for use in life. Again and again in the Bible story people go down into Egypt, and this always pictures a learning period.

But learning is not particularly valuable in and of itself. It is meant for use. Jacob and his family came down into Egypt to be nourished in the time of famine, but they should have gone back to the land of Canaan when the famine was over — back to the service of the Lord. Instead, they found themselves comfortable and prosperous in Egypt, and settled down there, forgetting their true home and eventually coming to worship the gods of the Egyptians instead of their own God.

People do the same today. They begin to study in order to master the knowledge necessary for a profession, a trade, or a business, and then often fall in love with the knowledge itself and simply try to keep on learning, not applying their knowledge to the service of the Lord and the neighbor. A man may become so absorbed in building up his business or improving his farm that he has no time or thought for his family and friends, much less for the church. A woman may become so intent on taking care of her house and improving it that she forgets that its only real value is as a home for her family, where they can be happy and safe and from which they can go out eager to perform their uses in the world. Such a man or woman has become a slave in Egypt, as the Hebrews did.

The Lord raised up Moses to lead the people back to the Holy Land. In each one of us He preserves some knowledge of the Word of God, which we have perhaps learned in childhood. He takes care of it and brings it back to our conscious memory when we finally realize into what bondage we have fallen. Under divine providence, Moses was brought up in the court of Pharaoh in all the learning of the Egyptians, but he was nursed in infancy by his true mother, so that he felt himself to be a Hebrew and knew the traditions of his people. No one of us is without his "Moses," prepared by the Lord and ready to lead him back to the Holy Land when he wants to go.

