
=== Adult

By way of introduction the Adults may be interested in the presumed identification of the Pool of Bethesda given most fully in the Junior notes, and in the difference between the KJV translation and the original in John 5:2. (The Revised Standard Version says "sheep gate.") There are several obvious discussion topics in the lesson — notably the recognition of discouragement as a personal evil to be overcome. John 5:14 is also important for Adults. Read here @DP 231 on the seventh kind of profanation.

---
Again we have a lesson about water, but this time it is about water gathered into a pool, truth gathered in the memory, our knowledge of the Word. This pool of Bethesda is in Jerusalem near the sheep market, or sheep's gate. Spiritually, it is in the holy city of our minds and associated with our affections for innocence. Is not this true of our knowledge of the Word, stored up throughout our childhood when our minds are in innocent and open states? The same is suggested by the five "porches," five being the number which signifies both "a little" and "remains." Divine providence provides that every mind shall have such a "pool," such a body of truth from the Word, even though such knowledge may not have come by direct contact with the Word itself.

In these porches — at every point of access to the pool — lay a great multitude of impotent folk. How clearly this pictures the spiritual state of each one of us: a multitude of diseased affections and thoughts, blind, lame, and helpless, gathered around the little pool of truth which the Lord has stored up deep within us for their healing. For, we are told, "an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water." Most of the time the pool of divine truth lies quiet in our minds, but now and then, when our state and circumstances make it profitable for us, an angel, a messenger of the Lord, the Lord's spirit working in us for our regeneration, comes down and stirs the pool, quickening our consciousness of the truth. Swedenborg tells us that the troubling of the waters represents "vivification through acknowledgment and faith, thus also purification through truths" (@AC 10083[4]).

Then some one fault in us may be healed. The invalid who was most alert, who was watching most keenly for the moving of the waters, was the fortunate one; that is, the fault of which we are most keenly conscious and which we are most anxious to correct is the one which will be touched and healed by our quickened understanding of the truth. We cannot fight all our faults at once. The writings tell us that genuine repentance must go further than a general confession that we are sinners: it must single out one particular sin after another and fight it (@TCR 525). Our regeneration advances step by step. For "precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little" (Isaiah 28:10).

But there was one man at the pool who had been helpless for thirty-eight years and who had never been able to get to the water in time. He pictures some deeper evil in us which we feel helpless to fight. Each one of us has some such deep evil which we attack only halfheartedly, feeling that it is so much a part of us that we can never get rid of it. "I can't help it; I was born that way," we say. The thirty-eighth year suggests that we have enough remains of good and truth to overcome this evil if we will — represented by thirty - and that it is time for a new state to begin in us — represented by eight. It is at this point that the Lord Himself comes to us and says, "Wilt thou be made whole?" Do we really wish to get rid of our deeper evils? Do we wish to make a thorough job of our regeneration? Or are we content to attack the more obvious, superficial faults and to let our really serious shortcomings remain, excusing ourselves by pleading helplessness?

The Lord answered the man's excuses with a challenge: "Rise, take up thy bed, and walk." Does not this remind us of the Lord's words to Joshua, after his defeat at Ai: "Get thee up; wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face?" From the writings we learn that "to rise" signifies elevation, as from evil to good or from ignorance to intelligence (@AC 2401; 4481). We must lift up our hearts and minds out of the obscurity of worldly fears and doubts, and trust in the Lord's promises and power. Then we must raise what we know of the truth — the bed on which we lie — and take it with us actively in our effort to overcome our evils, just as David, confident that the Lord was on his side, used one smooth stone from the brook to slay Goliath. The Lord said to the disciples, when they asked why they could not cast out a certain devil: "Because of your unbelief; for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you." The mountain in this passage pictures our satisfaction with ourselves as we are, with our own qualities and our own ideas. We are often even secretly pleased with our deeper faults because we think of them as part of ourselves, as making us different from other people. This self-satisfaction is a great mountain in the way of our spiritual progress. So we must first be sure that we sincerely want to be made "whole," and then, looking confidently to the Lord for help, go forward actively with all the truth we have.

In this miracle we have one of the numerous instances in which the religious leaders found fault with the Lord for His use of the sabbath. They had added to the commandment in regard to the sabbath many traditions, which they had come to consider binding. The Lord disregarded these traditions and went about teaching and healing on the sabbath. In one argument with the scribes and Pharisees on the subject the Lord told them, "The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: Therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath." (Mark 2:27-28) The sabbath was indeed made for man. Men who do not observe the sabbath inevitably sink into a state of absorption in self and the world, which is the death promised to the sabbath—breaker, the death of all spiritual life. While we are in this world, the greater part of our time must necessarily be spent in taking care of ourselves and our families. We need one day in seven when we lay aside our concern with worldly affairs and think about the Lord and His kingdom. This is the purpose of the sabbath. The Lord performed so many miracles on the sabbath as a picture of the fact that the sabbath is a day peculiarly set aside for the healing of our souls.

The practical question of what we should or should not do on Sunday is a perennial one, everywhere complicated by custom and tradition. Every nation, every community, every family has its own ideas on the subject. When we adhere to these traditional ideas to the hindering of the Lord's work in our souls or in the souls of others we are doing as the people in Gospel days did. On the other hand, we must not use the Lord's statements about the sabbath as an excuse for doing anything we happen to want to do on Sunday. Nothing in the Lord's example gives us warrant for laziness, for selfish indulgence, for neglect of worship. "As his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day" (Luke 4:16). The sabbath should be a day of rest from worldly thoughts and activities, and a day of active approach to the Lord. We should welcome it as an opportunity to think and to learn of Him, to take stock of our souls, to cultivate our affections for the neighbor, and to strengthen our good resolutions in preparing for the coming week. It is the day of all days to "take up our bed and walk" spiritually.

