
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
A study of the correspondences in the story will introduce the important subject of how we overcome our faults — both the superficial and the deeper ones. The command, "Rise, take up thy bed, and walk" should be impressed upon young people as a constant challenge.

---
After His two days in Samaria the Lord went on into Galilee.

John records a second miracle performed there (John 4:43-54) and says that the Galileans also received Him, "having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast." This suggests that He may have performed miracles in Jerusalem also on His first visit there after the beginning of His ministry. The Galileans referred to were probably Jews, since they went to the feast at Jerusalem. Most of the Galileans were Gentiles. Galilee was called "Galilee of the Gentiles." We might note also that John tells of a cleansing of the temple in that first visit (John 2:13-16). The other three Gospels place the story of the cleansing of the temple at the time of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem at the beginning of the last week of His earthly life. There may have been more than one cleansing, but such differences in order in the Gospel accounts need not trouble us, for we know that the historical sequence of events is not important, but the sequence as recorded in the Word is. That is, there is always a reason in the internal sense why the events in any chapter come in the order in which they do come.

In our chapter for today the Lord has again gone down to Jerusalem for one of the great feasts. There were three of these: the Passover, the feast of the first fruits, and the feast of the ingathering or harvest, which was also called the feast of tabernacles. The pool of Bethesda in Jerusalem has been almost certainly identified by the discovery in 1888 of a pool under the crypt of a fourth-century Christian Church in Jerusalem. This pool has a five—arched portico decorated with faded frescoes of the miracle of our lesson, and it is near what was known as the sheep's gate. You notice that in your Bible (KJV) the word market in John 5:2 is in italics, which means that it is not in the original Greek text. The text says only "near that of the sheep"; so gate is as reasonable an assumption as market. In the correspondence it is the word sheep which is important.

In the Word all diseases and afflictions of the physical body picture diseased conditions of the soul, and in our lesson today we have a vivid picture of the condition of the church in the Lord's time — which Jerusalem represents — where, around the pool of Bethesda lay "a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water."

The pool of Bethesda, "at Jerusalem by the sheep," pictures the knowledges of God and of the way of life stored up in our memories from the days of our innocent childhood. This pool had five porches. Throughout the Word five is the number which signifies "few." But it is also often associated in our thoughts with the number ten which signifies "remains." Remains [reliquiae] is the word Swedenborg uses for the states of goodness and the knowledges of truth acquired in our early childhood, which the Lord stores up deep within us to draw upon for our help in later life. The five porches which lead to this pool are on the one hand our five senses through which all knowledges enter our minds in the first place and on the other hand they picture the fact that some of the people still had a few remains through which they could be reached. Each of us, too, has this pool with the five porches.

All our faults and weaknesses are pictured by the sick people who were lying around the pool. We read that "an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water." From time to time in our own experience an "angel" or messenger of the Lord stirs up our memory of the truth. We call this "angel" conscience. The sick person most alert and eager to get to the water was healed. In the same way, the particular fault of which we are most conscious and which we are most eager to overcome is corrected.

But we all have more serious and crippling faults which are harder to fight. We may recognize them, but they seem so much a part of us that we feel that it is of no use even to try to overcome them. This is the impotent man of our story. The Lord says to us, as He said to the man, "Wilt thou be made whole?" Do we really want to get rid of our evils? And when we excuse ourselves, He says: "Rise, take up thy bed, and walk." Put in other words:

"Lift up your thoughts to the Lord, remember the religious principles in which you have been brought up, and do right instead of wrong." With the Lord's help we can do this.

"And on the same day was the sabbath." The sabbath day represents the state of peace and rest which comes after a victory over temptation has been won. The Lord often healed on the sabbath day. The religious leaders had made the day one of rigid external observance and had forgotten its origin and purpose. The Lord stripped off their tradition and restored the sabbath as a day to be kept holy, a day to worship the Lord and to serve the neighbor.

We have many problems connected with Sunday keeping. In Matthew 12:12 the Lord tells us "it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days." He Himself always went to the synagogue on the sabbath and then went about doing good. We should follow His example. Young people who differ from their parents as to what should or should not be done on Sunday might remember that they do not "do well" when they disobey their parents. Sunday should be a day for worshiping the Lord, learning of Him, and doing things which help others and which advance our spiritual progress.

