
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The spiritual lesson of this miracle can be easily understood by Older Children. In connection with John 5:14, be sure to review with the children the reasons why the Lord performed miracles. These were given in the Older Children notes of the lesson on "The Miracle at Cana," John 2.

---
Through which division of the land did the Lord have to pass in going from Judea to Galilee?

Where did the Lord stop to rest?

Who came to the well for water?

Why did the Jews despise the Samaritans?

What kind of water did the Lord tell the woman He could give her? What is "living" water?

What did He tell her about herself?

Whom did He declare Himself to be?

Of what "food" did He speak to His disciples?

What did the Samaritans think of Him?

The Lord went on into Galilee and there performed a second miracle. Then He returned to Jerusalem for another of the religious feasts, and our story for today takes place there. For many years there was uncertainty among scholars as to which of several pools in Jerusalem was the pool of our story, but there seems to be no longer much doubt. Harper's Bible Dictionary says it is now believed to be "the pool found during repairs in 1888 near St. Anne's Church in the Bezetha Quarter of Jerusalem not far from the Sheep's Gate and Tower of Antonia. It is below the slippery—stepped crypt of a ruined 4th century Church of St. Mary Probatica, and has a five—arched portico with faded frescoes of the miracle of Christ's healing (John 5:2 f.)."

Again we remember that water is the symbol of truth. Any gathering together of waters, like the sea or a lake or a pool, pictures truth gathered in our memories. The pool in Jerusalem pictures truth about the Lord and about what He tells us is the right way to live. We all have some of this truth in our memories. So we all have our pool of Bethesda. Sheep picture innocence and gentleness. The Lord's truth is stored up in our memories especially at times when we are in innocent and gentle states, because then we like to hear it.

Who were gathered around the pool of Bethesda?

What were they waiting for?

Do you remember what the word angel means?

What happened to the first sick person who stepped in after the water was troubled?

Did you ever, when you were about to do something wrong, have a little voice inside of you say, "Don't do it; you know it's wrong"? That voice is an angel or messenger from the Lord stirring up the truth in your memory. If you listen to that voice and obey it at once, you are like those who were quick to step into the pool and be healed. All our faults are spiritual diseases and infirmities.

How long had one man at the pool been sick?

What did the Lord ask him?

What was his answer?

Sometimes we think our faults are too strong for us. Then we don't really try to overcome them, and no one else can do it for us.

What did the Lord tell the man to do?

What happened when he tried?

We must first really want to be good, and then if we make a sincere and active effort to correct our faults, remembering that the Lord is present to help us, the Lord can give us strength to overcome them.

On what day of the week was this miracle performed?

Why were the Jews angry?

Can you repeat the commandment about the sabbath? We can see that the work we are not to do is the kind of work we have to do all the rest of the week, the kind of work which is necessary to our life in the world. We are to keep the sabbath "holy." This means that we are to use it for worship of the Lord, for learning about Him and how He wants us to live, and for doing kind things for other people for which we do not have time during the week. Look up Luke 4:16. This teaches us that the Lord always went to the synagogue on the sabbath day. He also performed many miracles on the sabbath. And He said, "It is lawful to do well on the sabbath days." (Matthew 12:12)

What did the Lord say to the man when He met him again in the temple?

He did not heal the man just to make his body well, but to help him to do right. If a person is bad, he can do more harm in a well body than in a sick one. We do not overcome all our faults at once, but one at a time. As soon as we get rid of one, we should be on the watch for another one to fight.

