
=== Notes for Parents

The Lord had gone to Jerusalem for another of the great feasts.

About the year 1888, men making repairs in one of the ancient Christian churches in Jerusalem, a church located near what was known as the "sheep gate," found under the crypt a pool. Further excavation discovered a five—arched portico, on the walls of which were faded frescoes portraying the miracle of our chapter. So evidently this pool was known in the early Christian Church to be the pool of Bethesda. The story is told only in the Gospel of John. This is the third lesson we have had in this Gospel involving water, which we know is one of the symbols of truth. Water gathered into a pool represents truth gathered in the memory. The pool of Bethesda near the sheep gate in Jerusalem symbolizes knowledge of the Lord and of what is true and right — knowledge which is lying in our memories as a result of the teaching we received in our innocent childhood. We may perhaps think of the five porches as our five senses through which that knowledge has come to us and been impressed upon us.

Who are the sick people who lie around this pool waiting to be healed? Are we not all sick — spiritually — in various ways? We know that we all have faults and that there is always some particular fault of which we are immediately conscious. If we really want to get rid of this fault, the angel of the Lord — the spirit of the Lord working through our conscience — comes down and "troubles" the water in the pool. The truth in our memory is stirred up, and if we are quick to see and apply it, our fault can be cured.

But we all have deeper evils within us, too. We recognize and acknowledge them, but we are likely to think they are too strong for us. We say, "I can't help it; I was born that way." This is the impotent man who had had his infirmity for thirty-eight years and who was never quick enough to get into the pool when it was troubled. We need to see that the Lord is standing beside us looking into our hearts. And what does He say?

First He asks, "Wilt thou be made whole?" Do you really want to be a thoroughly good person? Then if you do, "Rise, take up your bed, and walk." Do not just lie there thinking how helpless you are. You know enough of what is right to overcome this evil if you have the will to do it. Later when the Lord met the man in the temple, He said to him: "Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee." We must never let ourselves think that because we have conquered one temptation, we are perfect. As long as we are in this world, we are to go on seeing and fighting deeper and deeper evils within ourselves. This is the way we grow spiritually. It is the purpose of our whole life and our daily challenge. But the Lord is always there to help us.

