
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Mention the second miracle to the children and then read the lesson for the day, which needs no long introduction. This is a lesson from which a spiritual meaning may be drawn even for little children. They can understand that when they are naughty, it shows that there is something wrong with their souls which needs to be cured. Stress our part in the healing of both our bodies and our souls — the necessity of really wanting to be well and of making an effort ourselves.

---
Our lesson finds the Lord again in Jerusalem. He had been back to Galilee and had performed another miracle there, healing the son of a rich nobleman. Then He returned to Jerusalem for another of the feasts.

What pool was near the sheep gate in Jerusalem?

How many porches did it have?

Who were gathered around this pool?

What happened to the pool every once in a while?

What happened to the sick person who first stepped in after the water was troubled?

You know that when you are sick, you are likely to feel very sorry for yourself. You want to be waited on all the time and you keep calling your mother from her work to do things for you - often things you do not really need at all. People who have had a long sickness sometimes enjoy the attention they get so much that they stay in bed long after they could get up and take care of themselves.

How long had one man been sick?

What did the Lord ask him?

Why did the man say he had never been healed?

What did the Lord tell him to do?

What happened?

What did the religious leaders say to him?

What did he answer?

The man to whom the Lord spoke had not been really trying. He expected someone else to do the work for him. So the Lord first asked him if he really wanted to be well, and then told him to get up and make an effort himself.

Later the Lord said to him, "Sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee." Our faults are sicknesses in our souls, and sometimes we are just as slow to make the effort to give them up as we are to help ourselves to be well. When our parents tell us we must do differently, we say, "I can't," just as the man in our story did. So the Lord is speaking to us, too, in this story, and telling us that we must first make up our minds that we really want to be good and then try hard to overcome our faults. If we do this, He is always near at hand to help us.

