
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Our will to be made whole by the Lord is the question to be placed squarely before this age group. They find excuses easily, and their own individual responsibility for their spiritual development is a thought we should keep constantly in their minds.

---
As we have learned, the Lord often went back and forth between Judea and Galilee in the years of His ministry. This is more evident in the Gospel of John than in the other three Gospels because the story of the greater part of His three years' ministry is compressed into the first half of the Gospel to make room for the fuller development of His teaching during the last week of His life. So in our chapter for today we find Him again going to Jerusalem for one of the feasts. We might note, too, that again our lesson is concerned with water — this time with water in the city of Jerusalem itself. This is an interesting development, for our lesson on the miracle at Cana concerned truth applied to the outward conduct, and the teaching at Jacob's well concerned truth in the mind, and now we have a lesson which emphasizes the application of truth to the will.

The pool of Bethesda "at Jerusalem by the sheep market" with its five porches filled with "impotent folk" waiting for the troubling of the water is a wonderful picture of the state of the church at the time of the Lord's Advent. The pool near the sheep market - or sheep's gate — stands for knowledge of the truth remaining from an earlier state of innocence and trust. "Five" signifies "a little but enough." The scribes and Pharisees had left the people very little access to the genuine truth of the Word. This is illustrated in their attitude toward the sabbath. And the body of the church was full of disease - "blind, halt, withered." Yet the people gathered around the pool at every possible approach, waiting for the occasional touch of the Lord's spirit which might bring healing to someone.

All of us who make up the church today are also like these people. We recognize that we have faults, and we know that we must try to correct them one by one. As we see and acknowledge each one, we — spiritually speaking — go to the pool of Bethesda at Jerusalem by the sheep's gate (the truths of the Word which we have learned in our innocent childhood), and the Lord stirs the pool for us and shows us just the truth to apply for the correction of that particular fault.

But our story is principally concerned with one man who had had his infirmity for thirty-eight years and did not believe he could ever get to the pool in time. We have deep-seated evils within us which seem so much a part of us that we are likely to say of them, "I was born that way; I can't be expected to change my nature." In any dark state of the world or of the individual soul the worst disease is discouragement, which paralyzes all effort to improve. This is pictured in the story by the fact that the man felt that he could not get to the pool in time because he had no one to help him. But a new day had dawned for this man with the appearance of the Lord at the pool. Swedenborg tells us that thirty pictures "something of combat" and also "a full state of remains." The man was not beyond hope of reform, and he actually possessed enough knowledge to correct his condition if he had the will to correct it. The first question the Lord asked him was, "Wilt thou be made whole?" Eight, because the eighth day is the beginning of a new week, pictures "every beginning."

So now the Lord says to him, "Rise, take up thy bed, and walk."

Rising always pictures the elevation of our thoughts above the natural level; a bed — on which we rest — pictures the doctrine we have accepted as the basis of our life; and to walk is to move forward. If we look to the Lord for strength, remember the Christian principles which we have been taught, and exert ourselves to go forward with them, there is no sin or weakness which the Lord will not give us strength to overcome. Recall how Joshua, after the defeat at Ai, "rent his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark," and said, "Alas, O Lord"; and the Lord said to him, "Get thee up; wherefore liest thou upon thy face?" All of us need at times to remind ourselves that discouragement is from hell and that to give in to it is a sin. Many of our troubles come from the weakness of our will to overcome them.

We need also to take to heart the Lord's later words to the same man in the temple: "Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come upon thee." When we have been "made whole," we need to examine our former state to see the evils in ourselves which brought it about so that we may avoid them in the future. The sabbath is the state of rest and peace after victory, but we do not remain in the sabbath state while we are in this world. There is always a new work week beginning, with new problems to solve and weaknesses to recognize and fight. The sabbath is the time to look to the Lord with gratitude for the past help, and also a time for self-examination and new resolutions.

