
=== Adult

The importance of the first chapter of Matthew to our thought about the verbal inspiration of the Word should be stressed. Discussion may center about what is involved in the dual nature of the Lord while He was on earth. It is this knowledge, revealed by the Lord in His Second Coming, which enables us to recognize and combat the fallacies inherent in the tripersonal concept of God.

Our first chapter emphasizes the virgin birth of the Lord. Doubt and denial of the virgin birth are based wholly upon unwillingness to believe. The letter of Scripture leaves us no possible excuse for questioning the fact. The Lord was born in a miraculous manner without a natural father. If we accept His later claims to divinity, we can see that His birth could not have been like that of any finite man. We are limited by our inheritance from our parents. There are some things which each of us cannot learn to do, no matter how hard we try. There are some temptations with which we have to fight all our lives inwardly, however we may learn to control their outward expression. Swedenborg explains this by telling us that we inherit the form of our internal mind from our father, the form of our external mind from our mother. Thus evil tendencies which we inherit from the mother's side may be wholly conquered and put off, but those which we inherit from the father's side may only be controlled.* If we make the effort here to control them, when we get into the other life the Lord will hold them in subjection for us so that they no longer trouble us, but they remain as our individual limitations to eternity. If the Lord had had a natural father, His soul would have been finited just as ours are. He would not have been able to overcome all temptations; He would not have had infinite possibilities of development; He could never have made His humanity divine. The angel told Joseph that the child which Mary was to bear was conceived "of the Holy Ghost." That is, it was the divine life force itself which caused in Mary the beginning of the external form which was the Holy Babe of Bethlehem. The father of the child was the infinite God. The internal mind of the child was therefore infinite in its possibilities of development; but the external mind as well as the body was from Mary, and through her contained all the accumulated evil tendencies of humanity from the beginning of the world. Each of us has an internal and an external mind; we have all had experience of the struggle between what we call our higher and our lower natures. Imagine what struggle lay before the babe in whom the internal was the expression of the divine itself and the external contained all the accumulated forces of the hells!

[*See editorial Appendix at end of this volume.]

The three names of the Lord mentioned in our lesson all express the fact of the Incarnation: Emmanuel, meaning "God with us"; Jesus, meaning "Jehovah saves"; Christ (Messiah in the Hebrew), meaning "the anointed one," the savior promised from the beginning. The more we study this first chapter of the New Testament in the light of the knowledge given the world at the Second Coming the more wonderful it seems in its testimony not only to the deity of the Lord but to the inspiration of both Old and New Testament Scripture. Matthew indeed penned it, but he did not make it up. No mere man could have composed twenty-five verses which so intricately and convincingly sum up the Old Testament and proclaim its fulfillment in the New.

Egypt, the land symbolizing natural knowledges, is familiar to us from our lessons in the Old Testament from Abram's sojourn there and from the story of Joseph and the long bondage of the Hebrews there. Now the Lord is taken there to escape the wrath of Herod. When Abram went into Egypt it was because of famine, and we saw that the famine represented lack of knowledge of the Lord's truth, and that going into Egypt pictured spending time in learning. The Lord's going into Egypt pictures a learning period in His life. Swedenborg says, "The Lord was instructed like any other man, but by virtue of His Divine He received all things more intelligently and wisely than anyone else." (@AE 654[19]). William Bruce, in his Commentary on Matthew, puts the reason for this very clearly:

"The Divine was in the human, in the person of Christ, as the soul is in the body in the person of man. The soul does not inspire the body — or rather the external man, which includes the body — with knowledge, but only gives him the faculty of acquiring it. Nor does the soul manifest its powers in and through the body till the body, or rather the external man, is prepared by growth 'in wisdom and in stature,' to become a suitable instrument for its use. Reason and liberty are faculties of the soul; but without knowledge, rationality would not be able to judge nor liberty to choose." 

So the Lord, when He was a child, had to acquire knowledge by the use of His senses just as we do. Especially He had to be taught and to store in His external memory the letter of Scripture, for this was the measure to which He was to grow up. We learn parts of Scripture, and our finite reason acting upon our knowledge enables us partially to understand their meaning, and our finite will leads us to choose partially to live up to what we understand. The Lord learned all of Scripture, His infinite wisdom enabled Him to understand all its meaning, and His infinite love chose to live up to all of that wisdom. Even the learning process was hastened and perfected by the perfect internal within the external.

There is also perhaps a suggestion for us in the fact that Joseph was directed by revelation from heaven in his care of the child. There has been much idle speculation as to the Lord's training and pursuits during the long period in Nazareth, and many questions have been raised — as indeed they were raised in His own day (John 7:15) — as to how far His education was determined by the status and condition of Joseph. But we see that in the letter itself we have the assurance that Joseph as well as Mary knew that the child was extraordinary, and that Joseph was not the one who determined what should be done with Him. So even the letter suggests to us that the Lord's education was not necessarily dependent upon Joseph's knowledge and judgment; and Swedenborg tells us that "in His childhood the Lord did not will to imbue Himself with any other knowledges than those of the Word" (@AC 1461). The Lord's stay in Egypt therefore really pictures the fact that in His childhood He learned the letter of Scripture.

Herod, king of the Jews at this point in their history, pictures selfishness as a ruling principle in the life. As soon as we really recognize the Lord as God and determine to follow Him, all the selfishness in our nature is roused to an effort to change our determination. This is pictured by Herod's wrath and his attempt to destroy the Lord. He did destroy all the children in Bethlehem under two years of age — this means all that remained of innocence and goodness in the church which might have united it to the Lord. Little children represent innocence; the number two, the conjunction of good and truth; and Bethlehem, the connecting link between heaven and earth.

The three divisions of the Holy Land in the Lord's time picture the three planes in our lives. Judea, in which were Jerusalem and the temple and in which the Lord was born and to which He returned for the closing scenes of His earthly life, pictures the celestial or will plane. Galilee, in which He spent all the early years of His life and where most of the work of His ministry was done, pictures the natural plane, the plane of act or of external conduct. Samaria, which connects the two and through which He passed again and again as He went to and fro between Judea and Galilee, pictures the spiritual or thought plane. The greater part of our life must be given to the problems of external daily conduct, but we go up to Jerusalem regularly for worship and instruction and inspiration, and between the two planes we too "must needs pass through Samaria." We must think in order to worship the Lord and to understand His Word, and we must think in order to apply what we learn of His will in our daily life.

