
=== Adult

The general place and message of the Major Prophets and of Jeremiah in particular will offer many points for discussion, as well as the meaning of his original call and visions and his prophecies concerning the nations other than Judah. This is a good lesson in which to remind the Adults of Swedenborg's characterization of the Word as like a man clothed but with his hands and face bare [@DSS 55, @AE 778[6]].

---
The people of the Most Ancient Church before the fall had open communication with the heavens and were led by a dictate in the will, but that after the will became evil, man had to receive instruction in his understanding and by obedience develop a new will there. Through the prophets, therefore, the Lord spoke to the understanding of men. All of the Ancient Word and of our Word was given through prophets. We sing in the Benedictus: "As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began."

Only a very small portion of what was spoken by the prophets is recorded in the Word. The message given to most of the prophets was for the people of their time and was not preserved. Its general character, however, must have been the same, because it came from the Lord and had one fundamental purpose: to point out the evils into which men had fallen and to give them the truth they needed to lead them out of evil into good. In the first chapter of Jeremiah, which we have chosen as the example on which to base our study today, this purpose is expressed in verse 10: "See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throw down, to build, and to plant."

All of the Word is prophecy, a divinely given message from the Lord. In the letter a distinction is made between the Law and the Prophets, but the "Law," the five books of Moses, is full of direct assertions of revelation, visions, angel appearances, the voice of the Lord speaking, and even appearances of the Lord, as well as various signs and wonders. The Hebrew canon classes the books from Joshua through 2 Kings (excepting the book of Ruth) as the "former" prophets, recognizing that these books also were given through divinely inspired prophets, though their names were not known. The Pentateuch and these books of the former prophets fell into the form of a narrative of ancient Jewish history. They had a literal meaning as well as a universal and eternal inner or spiritual meaning. But the books of the "latter" prophets, the books which we customarily think of as the prophets, have only very limited reference to the Hebrew nation. Even the book of Jeremiah, written just before the end of the kingdom of Judah, contains many cryptic statements which are hard to relate to the events of his time. The people of that day interpreted the Messianic prophecies as promises of their restoration as the leading nation of the world, but these promises in this sense have never been fulfilled and never will be. Under the figure of the Judaic people and nation Jeremiah and the others were given to speak of a spiritual kingdom of truth and righteousness, the Church which the Lord's coming was to reestablish.

The latter Prophets are divided into four "Major" and twelve "Minor" Prophets. The four Major Prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. Their historical position is clear, as it is stated in the letter. They all prophesied to the people of Judah. Isaiah was prophet in the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah. It was by heeding his warnings and advice that Judah was saved from the destruction which befell Israel at the hands of Assyria. Jeremiah, as our chapter tells us, was first called to be prophet in the thirteenth year of the reign of Josiah, the last good king of Judah. He prophesied the end of Judah and the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple, and he lived to see his prophecies literally fulfilled. Through the favor of Nebuchadnezzar, he was not himself carried to Babylon, but he was taken against his will by some of his own people to Egypt, where he is believed to have died. Some of his later prophecies (Jeremiah 43:8) and possibly the book of Lamentations were written in Egypt. Ezekiel and Daniel were both among the captives taken to Babylon and were called to prophesy to the people of Judah in captivity. To these people, upon whom the calamities had fallen which Jeremiah had prophesied, the "bad news" for which they had so hated him, the promises of restoration given through Ezekiel and Daniel were welcome comfort. So Ezekiel and Daniel, almost alone among the prophets, were popular and rose to positions of eminence.

Jeremiah was beaten, put in stocks, cast into prison, let down into a pit where he sank in the mire, left without food, and threatened with death. All these things picture what men do to the truth when it crosses their worldly and selfish desires. But the truth prevails in the end and vindicates itself. The command and promise to Jeremiah in verses 17-19 of our chapter express the Lord's unfailing provision that the truth shall be made available and His protection over it.

The two brief visions given to Jeremiah at the beginning of his work are interesting in their correspondence. We recall that the rod of Aaron (Numbers 17:1-8), the only one of the rods of the twelve tribes which blossomed and bore fruit, was an almond rod. See the passages from @AC 5622[2] and 8408[3] below. The texts referred to in both these instances are among those places in the Word where the Lord in the letter clearly indicates the internal meaning. Verse 12 gives you the meaning of the almond rod, and verse 16 that of the seething pot.

The greater part of the book of Jeremiah is taken up with the condition of Judah — symbol of the Church as to good — and prophecies of its end. But a few chapters (Jeremiah 46 to 51:58) prophesy the doom which will eventually overtake the enemies of Judah: Egypt, the Philistines, Moab and Ammon, Edom, Damascus, Kedar, Hazor, Elam, and finally the arch—enemy Babylon. We can see in these a series of enemies to our spiritual progress: Egypt, the reliance on natural memory-knowledges; the Philistines, knowing the truth without doing it; Moab and Ammon, "adulterated good and falsified truth"; Edom, turning aside from good by despising truth; Damascus, perversion of knowledges of truth; Kedar, not being in truth because not in good; Hazor, the falsity of evil; Elam, the spiritual church desolated; Babylon, the love of dominion from the love of self. This is a searching catalogue of the temptations which must be met and overcome by us as individuals and by the Church and the world. At first glance they may seem repetitious, but if we consider each one carefully, looking for examples of it in our own thought and in the thought and life of the world about us, we shall see not only differences among them but a natural progression from one to the other, leading us away from trust in the Lord and His Word to a final setting up of our own will and intelligence as the center of the universe, which everything and everybody else should serve.

