
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The interpretation of the two visions in the chapter is important for this class as well as the study of the mission of all the prophets of the Word not only to their own time but to us in our lives.

---
In our lesson on Hezekiah we made the acquaintance of the great prophet Isaiah. The Lord had always sent prophets to carry His messages to mankind. A prophet is one who "speaks for" someone, especially for God. And because many of God's messages have concerned the things which would happen in the future as a result of what men were doing, we have come to think of a prophet at one who foretells the future.

Verse 10 of our chapter for today, in which the Lord gives Jeremiah his commission, expresses the true work of a prophet. It has two sides: "to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy and to throw down" evil, and "to build, and to plant" good. The rooting out and throwing down must come before the building and planting, because we all have so many selfish feelings and wrong thoughts which stand in the way of the growth of the heavenly character which the Lord wants us to have.

There were four "Major" Prophets, so called only because more of their prophecies were preserved in the Word than of any of the twelve "Minor" Prophets. All four prophesied within a period of about two hundred and fifty years and to the people of the kingdom of Judah, but the last two, Ezekiel and Daniel, prophesied from captivity in Babylon. The books of these last two, as well as that of Isaiah, are full of prophecies of the coming of the Messiah and the restoration of true worship of the Lord. These prophecies brought comfort and hope to the few good people who remained faithful to the Lord through the dark days of the fall and captivity of Judah.

The book of Jeremiah is almost entirely given to condemnation and warning, although he, too, has a few prophecies of the restoration, such as we find in Jeremiah 23:3-8, 30:1-3, and 33:6-18. Jeremiah, as we learn from our chapter for today, was first called by the Lord in the reign of king Josiah, who was the last king of Judah to attempt reforms. During the reigns of the four kings who succeeded Josiah, a period of less than twenty-five years, conditions became rapidly worse, until Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon finally destroyed Jerusalem and the temple and carried most of the Jews away to Babylon. Jeremiah lived through this period. By the favor of Nebuchadnezzar he was allowed to remain in his home along with the "poor" of the land who were left to take care of the fields and vineyards. He counseled them to stay at home and be patient, but a large number of them were afraid and insisted on fleeing to Egypt, taking Jeremiah with them against his will. Chapters 43 and 44 and probably others of his later prophecies were written in Egypt. The book of Lamentations, which in the Hebrew consists of five remarkable poems, was also written through Jeremiah to express the mourning over the loss of goodness which is pictured by the captivity of Judah. Jeremiah is believed to have died in Egypt.

In our chapter two visions are given to Jeremiah, the vision of "a rod of an almond tree" and the vision of "a seething pot" with its face toward the north. These are both explained to Jeremiah by the Lord. Of the almond rod the Lord says, "for I will hasten my word to perform it." The almond tree represents truth from the Lord and its fruit the good which comes from obeying that truth. (Read Numbers 17:1-8.) A rod always is the symbol of power - you remember the power Moses exercised through his rod. So the vision of the almond rod is a picture of the wonderful possibilities which the Lord gives to everyone of us in His revealed truth. The other vision is a picture of what happens when we look to our natural, worldly ideas for guidance instead of to the Lord's truth. The pot was turned toward the north. The cold north pictures the state of mind furthest from the Lord because, you remember, the Lord is the sun of our souls. When we turn away from the Lord, our minds become full of all sorts of conflicting ideas like the water boiling in the pot. We have no steady purpose and no peace of mind. And these false ideas finally take away our goodness, as the evil "out of the north" overcame Judah. This is one of the places in the Word where the spiritual meaning is explained in the letter.

In the letter the prophecies of Jeremiah of course concerned the state of the Jewish nation in its last days and the inevitable results of its evils. But all the prophecies in the Word in their internal sense apply to the states of people of all times and nations. They go deep into our hearts and minds and point out what is wrong with us, and they tell us what must happen to us if we insist on going our own selfish way, and what wonderful things we may have if only we will obey the Lord. Jeremiah was the only prophet who lived to see his prophecies literally fulfilled.


