
=== Junior

The Juniors should learn the names of the four Major Prophets and be able to find them quickly in the Bible. Have them look up the Bible references given in their notes and study a map to find the geographical location of various enemies mentioned in the book of Jeremiah. The story of Jeremiah's call and its consequences to him will interest the class.

What is a prophet?

What great Judge was also a prophet?

What prophet was sent to Ahab?

What prophet followed him?

Who are the four Major Prophets?

Where have we learned about Isaiah?

Jeremiah was also a prophet in Judah. He lived about a century after Isaiah in the last days of the kingdom of Judah.

In whose reign did Jeremiah begin to prophesy?

What did he say when the Lord called him?

What did the Lord tell him?

In verse 10 what opposite things is Jeremiah called to do?

This expresses the work of a prophet. The prophet speaks for the Lord, and the Lord's desire is to help each one of us to build a heavenly character, but this cannot be done except as the bad, selfish things in us are rooted out and destroyed. All the prophets had a message from the Lord for the people of their time, but what they were commanded to write down was also for all people in all times.

What was the first vision Jeremiah had?

Read Numbers 17:1-8. This incident happened during the wilderness journey. You remember that Aaron was the first high priest of the Jews. The people had been rebelling against Moses and Aaron, and the Lord gave them this sign to show that Aaron was really His minister. The almond was a symbol of goodness from the Lord, and the almond rod the symbol of truth from the Lord which leads to that goodness. So now the Lord shows Jeremiah a "rod of an almond tree" and tells him that it means that His Word will accomplish His purposes. Read Isaiah 55:11.

What was Jeremiah's second vision? What did the Lord tell him it meant? What did the Lord promise Jeremiah?

The Lord kept His promise. Jeremiah was faithful to his task all his life, and because the people of Judah had become so evil, they did not want to listen and they hated Jeremiah and tried in every way to get rid of him. They beat him, and put him in the stocks and in prison, and kept him in a muddy pit with nothing to eat. But the Lord kept him alive and saved him each time. Jeremiah was the only one of the prophets who lived to see his prophecies fulfilled. Judah was taken captive by Babylon, and Jerusalem and the temples were destroyed. The book of Lamentations, which consists in the Hebrew of five poems of mourning, was written through Jeremiah to express the tragedy of such a fall. All the great men of Judah as well as many of the others were carried away captive to Babylon. Only the "poor" of the land were left to care for the fields and vineyards. Jeremiah told them to stay in the land and be patient, but many were afraid to stay and fled to Egypt, and they took Jeremiah with them against his will. Chapters 43 and 44 and probably some of the other later chapters of the book were written in Egypt. It is believed that Jeremiah died in Egypt. Chapters 46 to 51 are largely devoted to prophecies of the destruction of the enemies which had overcome Judah: Babylon, Egypt, the Philistines, Moab, Ammon, Edom, Kedar, and Elam, and the cities of Damascus and Hazor. Babylon, of course, was the great conqueror, but the constant harrying by the others had weakened Judah. If we think of the land of Canaan as the "promised land," heaven or a heavenly character, we can see that all these enemies are pictures of the bad things in us which destroy heavenly character. The two great enemies are Assyria — which conquered Israel — and Babylon. Assyria as an enemy pictures our reasoning power when it is used to defend our own desires, and Babylon pictures the selfish love of getting our own way. The other enemies are all lesser evils which attack us from time to time and undermine our resistance.

The other two Major Prophets, Ezekiel and Daniel, prophesied from their captivity in Babylon. The four Prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel are called "Major" because more of their prophecies are preserved in the Word than of any of the twelve "Minor" Prophets. The books of the Minor Prophets are equally inspired.

