
=== Primary

The chapter from Jeremiah contains enough "story" to interest the children. Be sure they understand what a prophet is. The teacher will probably not want to read the whole chapter in class. He should look it over beforehand and mark the sections he wants to read. Follow the outline given in the notes. Stress the fact that there were many prophets but that the Lord chose only a few of them for the writing of the Word.

Long ago, in the days when the Bible was being written, the Lord used to choose certain men to speak for Him to the people. Sometimes He appeared to them in dreams and told them what to say. Sometimes He spoke from inside their minds and they heard His voice although they did not see Him. But they knew that they must speak just the words He told them to speak. It was His message they were to give, and not anything they made up themselves. These men were called prophets.

You remember that Samuel was a prophet as well as a Judge.

Do you remember the names of the two great prophets who tried to save the kingdom of Israel?

Who was the prophet who was sent to Hezekiah?

Sometimes the prophets were told also to write the Lord's words in books so that people could always have them to read, and that is the way the Word was given to us. Everyone who wrote part of the Word was a prophet, but we do not know the names of all of them. However, we do know some of them. There were four great prophets who wrote quite long books. They were Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel, and because their books were long they were called the "Major" Prophets.

Jeremiah was a prophet in Judah about a hundred years after Isaiah. In whose reign did he begin to prophesy?

What did Jeremiah say when the Lord first called him?

What did the Lord tell him?

What two visions did the Lord then give him?

Judah was near its end.

The people had become so bad that almost all of Jeremiah's prophecies were reproofs and warnings.

The people hated Jeremiah because all he had to tell them was bad news. But he was the only prophet who lived to see his prophecies fulfilled.

He saw Judah taken captive by Babylon, and Jerusalem and the temple destroyed.

After that he wrote the book of Lamentations, which consists of five poems of mourning.

Some of the poorer people, whom the king of Babylon had left in the land, fled to Egypt.

They took Jeremiah with them against his will.

Some of the last chapters of the book of Jeremiah were written in Egypt. The other two Major Prophets were Ezekiel and Daniel.

They were both among those carried away to Babylon, and they prophesied in captivity.

