
=== Senior

With this class take up more of the history of the prophets and the meaning of their office as it is made evident in the letter of the Word. Also discuss the difference between the written Word and the prophetic utterances which were not divinely preserved.

---
In the Benedictus (Luke 1:68-79), part of which we sometimes sing in church, are the familiar words, "As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began." The Lord has never left men without sufficient knowledge of the truth to guide them if they chose to be led by Him. The Israelites call the books of the Bible from Joshua through 2 Kings (excepting the book of Ruth) "the Former Prophets." Samuel, we recall, was recognized throughout the land as a prophet, and we all know the stories of the great prophets Elijah and Elisha. But there were many other prophets all through the history of the Old Testament. In the time of Samuel they lived together in companies under the instruction and direction of Samuel (1 Samuel 19:18-24). In 1 Kings 18:4 we read that Jezebel "cut off the prophets of the Lord," and that Obadiah saved a hundred of them and "hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water." That those called prophets did not always speak from divine inspiration we learn in several places, notably in Isaiah 30:9-10, Jeremiah 14:13-16, and Matthew 7:22-23. We also learn from Amos 7:14 that the Lord did not always choose His prophets from among the companies of the prophets. But except for a period of a century or two before the call of Samuel when "there was no open vision" (1 Samuel 3:1), there were always prophets of the Lord in the land who pointed out the wrongdoings of the people, predicted what would happen if they continued, and promised them blessing if they would return to the service of the Lord.

Every true prophet of the Lord had a message for the people of his time. The Lord alone sees the hearts of all men and knows what each will choose to do with the opportunities that are given him. So He is able to make provision for the salvation of all who wish to be good. His providence is over every individual life and over all history, insuring to everyone from day to day the opportunity to choose freely what he wants to be. But not all the prophets were given a message of universal import. Of the multitude of prophecies which must have been spoken through the ages, only a few were chosen by the Lord to be written down and preserved as part of the Word. The books of Moses are of course prophecy throughout. Moses and after him the "former" prophets wrote their message in the form of an account of the history of the nation, which could be directed by the Lord for that purpose. We do not know the names of these former prophets, who wrote the books of the Word from Joshua through 2 Kings.

The "latter prophets" are the sixteen whose books conclude the Old Testament. These books are not consecutive history, although they contain many references to circumstances and conditions of the times in which they were written. Some chapters thus had in the letter an obvious meaning for the people of that time, but the greater part of them were "dark" sayings. The fact is that it is the internal states of people which are described through the prophets.

During the history of the first Christian Church many attempts at interpretation were made, but without a knowledge of correspondence no consistent interpretation could be formulated. There are many verses indeed in which the inner meaning shines through the letter so clearly that they have become popular sermon texts and thus familiar to churchgoing people, but the study of the books of the prophets as a whole has in modern times largely deteriorated into textual study with a view to finding out just when the books were written and by whom, and whether or not, for example, the whole of the book of Isaiah could have been the work of one man. Study of the text is always interesting, but it is really fruitful only when it can be divorced from the premise that the human penmen were the real authors of the books.

The prophets all claimed divine inspiration. "The word of the Lord came ... " is a common expression in all of them. They saw visions and heard the voice of the Lord speaking to them either from within or from without. Consider the call of Jeremiah, which we take as the basis of our lesson today. Jeremiah 1:2, 3 tell us that the word of the Lord came to him first in the days of Josiah king of Judah, and then throughout the remaining years of the kingdom. The rest of the chapter is the record of a conversation with the Lord in which Jeremiah was reluctant to assume a task which called for addressing the people, and the Lord promised to put the words in his mouth and also to protect him against the wrath of the people, who would not want to hear the truth he would speak. We sometimes lose opportunities for doing good because we are afraid to "speak out" against things we know to be wrong. It will help us to remember that, if we can forget ourselves, the Lord is always present to help us say the right thing. Jeremiah was given two visions — of the "rod of an almond tree" and of "a seething pot" whose face was toward the north — and the Lord explained to him the meaning of both visions. The whole chapter is the account of a direct communication from the Lord and a compelling commission to go out and speak the message of the Lord. The expression "the word of the Lord" occurs more than fifty times in the book of Jeremiah.

The four Major Prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. Isaiah, as we have seen, lived in the time of Hezekiah. Jeremiah lived to see some of his prophecies literally fulfilled, for he saw Jerusalem and the temple destroyed and the greater part of the people of Judah carried away to Babylon. The latter part of the book of Jeremiah and the book of Lamentations were written after this took place. Ezekiel and Daniel were among the young men carried away, and they prophesied to the captives in Babylon.

