
=== Junior

This is the age at which the historical sequence of events is important. As the remaining Old Testament lessons are concerned with the Psalms and the Prophets, it has been thought best to touch on the completion of the story of the divided kingdom in this lesson, although it goes a little beyond the actual assignment.

Israel did not listen to the warnings of Elijah and Elisha. Its kings and its people turned more and more from the Lord until He could no longer reach and save them. So, in the time when Hezekiah was on the throne of Judah, Israel was taken captive by the Assyrians. All the people were carried away into the lands of the east, and they never came back. You may sometimes hear them referred to as the "lost tribes." There is no record of their later history. They were absorbed by the nations among whom they were settled. They had given up their worship of the Lord, for which their nation had been set apart, and so they had nothing left to keep them from forgetting their nationality. The Assyrians brought foreigners into the land of Israel to settle in their places. There is an interesting story about these people in 2 Kings 17:24-29, 41. Their descendants were the Samaritans of the Gospel story, who even after hundreds of years were still despised as foreigners by the Jews.

The kings of Judah were not all evil like those of Israel. Idolatry flourished in Judah, too, but they still had the temple at Jerusalem to remind them of their true worship, and every now and then a good king would appear, who would restore the temple worship, destroy the idols, and for a time bring the people back into order. Hezekiah was one of these good kings, and so the Lord was able to save Judah when Israel was conquered. But Manasseh, Hezekiah's son, was the opposite of his father. After Hezekiah's death he immediately swung the country back into idol worship, including the worship of Baal. Hezekiah had destroyed the "high places" which were mounds built for pagan religious rites. The first thing that is said about Manasseh is that "he built up again the high places." He was the worst king Judah had had. He even set up idols in the temple itself. His son Amon followed in his footsteps, but Amon's son was Josiah, the best king Judah ever had.

How old was Josiah when he began to reign?

What was the first good work he undertook?

What did the high priest find when the temple was being repaired?

Read Deuteronomy 31:24-26. This tells us what the book of the law was. The books of Moses are full of warnings of what would happen to the people if they failed to keep the law. You can imagine how a good, conscientious king would feel on hearing these read when his land was in the condition in which Manasseh and Amon left it.

To whom did Josiah send to inquire of the Lord?

What did Huldah say about the punishment of the people?

What did she say about Josiah?

Hezekiah had also been promised peace in his own time. Each of us who does right really helps the world, no matter what other people do.

Josiah remained faithful to the Lord to the end of his life. He destroyed all the idols, including the altar to the golden calf which Jeroboam had set up in Bethel. Even Hezekiah had not done this. Each one of us has special good things that he can do. This is something we need to remember when we are working or playing with others. Everyone is not able to do just the same things, but if each does what he can and notices and acknowledges the good that others do, the whole group will be happy and useful.

For Josiah's sake the destruction of Judah was delayed. Josiah himself was finally killed in battle with the king of Egypt. His sons were not like their father, and it was only a few years before Judah was taken captive by Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. All but the poorest of the people were carried away into Babylon. But there were good people among them who did not forget the Lord. And they had the prophets Ezekiel and Daniel to remind them. So after seventy years of captivity all who wished were allowed to return. They rebuilt Jerusalem and the temple, and it was their descendants who were the Jews of the Lord's time.

