
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In many of the other Christian churches there is a strong tendency to relegate the Old Testament to the past and to feel that the New Testament is the only part of the Word we really need to study. This lesson is a good one in which to bring out the inseparable nature of the two and the fact that no one can understand the New Testament without knowing the Old. The meaning of John's message in our own lives is also important for Adults.

---
Concerning the state of the church at the time of the Advent Swedenborg says: "The church was then altogether vastated, so that there was no longer any good, or any truth" (@AC 2708). The Roman Empire, whose doctrine was "might is right," controlled the world. The Jews had the Word but had made it "of none effect" through their traditions. The Scriptures were read, and worship was carried on in the temple with all the traditional ceremonies; but the aim of the church was temporal power, and the temple was in reality no longer a house of prayer, but a den of thieves. Yet even in this bleak situation there were a few simple pious people who cherished the prophecies of salvation and longed for their fulfillment. Examples of such people were Zacharias and Elisabeth, who "were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless"; Joseph and Mary; Simeon (Luke 2:25-35) and Anna (Luke 2:36-38); the shepherds and the apostles. And outside the church among the Gentile nations were multitudes who knew that they walked in darkness and longed for light. The song of Zacharias (Luke 1:68-79) is a glorification of the Lord for His mercy in fulfilling the prophecies and visiting His people, "To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death." Swedenborg tells us that visitation is predicated of the exploration of both the good and the evil as to their real quality, preceding a judgment, and that darkness may be the darkness either of falsity from evil or of falsity from ignorance. The death in whose shadow they were was spiritual death, which must have overtaken the whole world if the Lord had not come to restore the light of truth; for those who had the truth had perverted it so that those who came seeking it found only falsity. The Lord said of the scribes and Pharisees, "Ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves." (Matthew 23:15) The whole of the twenty-third chapter of Matthew, as also most of Luke 11, is a vivid description of the conditions existing in the church.

Zacharias and Elisabeth were both descendants of Aaron. Zacharias was of the "course" or division of Abia, or Abijah. The house of Aaron was divided into twenty-four "courses" or groups of priests, who took turns in administering the worship of the temple (1 Chronicles 24:1-19). When a course finished its period of ministry, its members returned to their homes until their turn came again (Luke 1:23). The duty of Zacharias on this particular day was to burn incense on the altar of incense. @AE 298 explains that the angel appeared to Zacharias standing on the right side of the altar because the "right hand" in reference to angels and men means "the wisdom and intelligence that they have from the Divine good through the Divine truth proceeding from the Lord." Swedenborg also tells us that Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael in the Word are not the names of individual angels but of angelic societies, named from particular functions, and that by Gabriel is meant "the ministry of those who teach from the Word, that Jehovah came into the world, and that the Human He there assumed is the Son of God, and Divine" (@AR 548). Study also the messages which the angel Gabriel brought to Daniel (Daniel 8:16, 9:21 ff.).

The Gospel of Luke gives the most complete, although not the most detailed, account of the life of the Lord. It begins with the annunciation concerning John the Baptist, and it is the only Gospel which describes the ascension. Miracles attending John's birth link the New Testament directly with the Old, bridging a period of four hundred years, for the last verses of the last chapter of Malachi are a prophecy of the coming of Elijah to prepare the way of the Lord.

Swedenborg tells us what is meant by these last words of Malachi: "John the Baptist was sent before to prepare the people for the reception of the Lord by baptism, because baptism represented and signified purification from evils and falsities, and also regeneration by the Lord by means of the Word. Unless this representation had preceded, the Lord could not have manifested Himself and have taught and lived in Judea and in Jerusalem, since the Lord was the God of heaven and earth under a human form, and He could not have been present with a nation that was in mere falsities in respect to doctrine and in mere evils in respect to life; consequently, unless that nation had been prepared for the reception of the Lord by a representation of purification from falsities and evils by baptism, it would have been destroyed by diseases of every kind by the presence of the Divine Itself; therefore, this is what is signified by 'lest I come and smite the earth with a curse'" (@AE 724). The Lord says of John, "And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come." (Matthew 11:14) The angel says that John will come "in the spirit and power of Elias." John himself says that he is the fulfillment of the prophecies in Isaiah 40:3 and Malachi 3:1. And after the transfiguration the Lord revealed to Peter, James, and John that John the Baptist had been the promised Elijah (Matthew 17:10-13). Elias [KJV] is the Greek form of Elijah. We are thus made to realize how close is the relation between the two testaments, the whole of the Old Testament being in reality a prophecy of the life of the Lord. The Lord said that He came to fulfill the Law and the Prophets, and He later expounded to the disciples in all the Scriptures the things concerning Himself "beginning at Moses and all the Prophets."

The dumbness of Zacharias offers an interesting correspondence, for the slang expression "dumb" may be thought of as one of the natural outgrowths of correspondence. "Dumb" of course means unable to speak; yet we use it to mean "ignorant" or "stupid."

Ignorance or lack of intelligence with regard to any subject makes it impossible for us to speak effectively on that subject. Dumbness is thus the direct result of lack of knowledge, understanding, and consequent convictions. The angel said to Zacharias, "And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season." Swedenborg says that in the internal sense by the dumb are signified "they who cannot confess the Lord, thus cannot profess faith in Him, by reason of ignorance, in which state are the nations outside the church, and also the simple within the church" (@AC 6988). In the same number he says that the miracles wrought by the Lord all signify the state of the church and of the human race saved by His coming into the world. The healing of the dumb man by the Lord thus pictured the deliverance of men from falsities which prevented their acknowledging Him. Of the idols that men make it is said, "They have mouths, but they speak not" (Psalm 135:16). Of the coming of the Lord's kingdom Isaiah prophesies: "Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing; for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert." (Isaiah 35:6) The wilderness and the desert picture the state of the church at the time of the Advent — for this reason, of course, John was in the desert — and the waters and streams breaking out picture the truth which the Lord came to restore. When John was born according to the angel's prophecy, and Zacharias had signified that his name was to be John — the name means "the Lord is gracious" - it is reported, "And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he spake, and praised God." Ignorance in regard to the Lord, lack of understanding of Him and of His purposes make it impossible for one to confess Him in such a way as to convey any impression to anyone else. If we do not wish to be spiritually "dumb," we must learn all we can about the Lord as He reveals Himself in His Word, and by living according to what we learn acquire that spiritual wisdom which will also enable us to show forth the Lord's praise "not only with our lips, but in our lives."

The good people of that time recognized in John a power which cut through all the superficialities with which the scribes and Pharisees had obscured the Scriptures, and revealed to them anew the fundamental principles of right and wrong which the Scriptures laid down for their own daily lives. Once they were able to recognize their evils and falsities and to make the effort to overcome them, they were prepared to recognize the Lord, to welcome Him, and to listen to the deeper truths He preached. This is equally true for us. The Lord's spirit cannot enter except where the way is prepared by humility and obedience to truth from the Word. We recall that in the Old Testament the period of the wilderness wanderings represented a similar period of reformation, a setting in order of the external life by obedience to the commandments, and that this had to precede entrance into the Holy Land, which pictures a state of inner achievement and happiness. John's whole appeal was to reformation of the external life. He wore a garment of camel's hair, which represents the truths of the literal sense of the Word as to good (@AE 5620[12]).

John's message, "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand," is eternally valid. The kingdom of heaven is always at hand. The Lord stands at the door, always ready to enter. Our part is to open the door, to clear the way for the Lord's spirit by rejecting the things in us which stand in His way.

Our chapter weaves together the fulfillment of two prophecies in Malachi. The angel Gabriel appeared first to Zacharias and then to Mary. Mary was told that her cousin Elisabeth was to have a child, and was moved to visit her. And even before he was born John bore witness — the child leaped in the womb — and Elisabeth and Mary were given divine confirmation of the promises which had been made to them. So we have given us in this same chapter both the Benedictus spoken by Zacharias and the Magnificat spoken by Mary. John was born first; he entered upon his public mission first; and at the time of his baptism of the Lord he made the first public proclamation of the Lord's identity, which was immediately confirmed by the voice and sign from heaven. Then, as the Lord's ministry became established, John's came to its end, as he himself prophesied: "He must increase, but I must decrease." (John 3:30) He was imprisoned during the second year of the Lord's ministry and put to death early in the third year. So the Lord takes fuller and fuller possession of the prepared heart and mind, and the ordering of the external life becomes a matter of course as the expression of the spirit within.

