
=== Intermediate

The meaning of the mission of John the Baptist for our own lives is the important lesson for this class, but the fulfillment of prophecies in this chapter should also be studied and explained. Be sure the pupils know the meaning of baptism.

---
We turn now to the account of the life of the Lord as it is recorded in the Gospel of Luke. Some four hundred years had passed since the Lord last sent a prophet, and in that time the Scriptures, which had been given for their instruction, had been so overlaid by the priests and scribes with man-made laws and traditions that the people no longer knew what the law of the Lord was. Most of the people were satisfied to perform the various ceremonies required of them and then to feel free to be as worldly and selfish as they pleased. But a few cherished in their hearts the longing for a really good life. We see this pictured in the last chapter of the Old Testament. The prophecies contained in that chapter were fulfilled in the birth of John the Baptist, followed by the birth of the Lord. In verse 17 of our chapter for today the angel gives us the reason why it was prophesied that Elijah would come. Elias [KJV] is the Greek form of Elijah. Look up also Matthew 11:13-14 and 17:10-13.

The story of the appearance of the angel Gabriel to Zacharias is a striking one. The same angel had appeared to Daniel to prophesy the coming of the Messiah (Daniel 8:16 and 9:21). Gabriel means "God is mighty." Swedenborg tells us that by Gabriel are meant all in the heavens who especially love to know and to teach the great truth that the Lord Jesus Christ is God Himself. It was really a whole angelic society which appeared to Daniel and to Zacharias, although in the form of one man. The dumbness of Zacharias pictures his inability, in the state in which he then was, to understand the great promise well enough to believe and talk about it. You see, even in slang we sometimes speak in correspondences, for we call a person "dumb" when we mean that he is too ignorant to understand what we are trying to tell him and discuss it with us. When John was born, Zacharias could speak again, because then he could believe. Notice that the first words he spoke were the Benedictus, which is sung from time to time in church.

Mary, as well as Zacharias and Elisabeth, was of those who remained devout and faithful. It was the angel Gabriel who was sent to her also with the wonderful announcement that she was to be the mother of the Lord. The Old Testament is full of prophecies of the Lord's birth. The most direct, perhaps, is that in Isaiah 7:14, which is cited in Matthew 1:22-23. The good Jews of that day were acutely conscious of the condition of their people, and clung to these prophecies as their only hope and comfort. See what is said of the prophetess Anna in Luke 2:36-38. It is evident in the letter of our lesson that Mary had no doubt of the meaning of the angel's words, and that Elisabeth also received divine confirmation of the function Mary was to serve.

John had to be sent to prepare the way of the Lord because only the humble mind, conscious of its evils and need of the Lord, is open to receive Him. John's message was "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." The kingdom of heaven is always at hand, but repentance must come before salvation. We must recognize and put away our evil thoughts and feelings before the Lord's spirit can enter our hearts. This is something we need to think about. We take it for granted sometimes that we are Christians because we have been baptized and brought up in the Christian Church. And indeed baptism is the sign of Christianity. But it is only a sign that we have the great privilege of knowing that Jesus Christ came into the world to be our savior, and of knowing that we ought to live according to the example He gave us. We are not really Christians unless we do follow His example. We receive Him when we get rid of our selfish ways and allow His unselfish love to enter our hearts and work through us in the world. He says in John 13:35, "By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another."

So John's work was to show the people their selfishness and lead them to struggle against it, and it was the people who had listened to John and obeyed his injunction to repentance who were ready to listen to the Lord and follow Him. In Malachi the Lord's coming was likened to the rising of the sun. When we turn away from the sun, the thing we see nearest to us is our own shadow. When we turn away from the Lord, the shadow of our own self is between us and everyone else.

Those who did repent were baptized by John in the Jordan. That is why, of course, he is called John the Baptist. Baptism with water is a symbol of the intention to cleanse our lives by means of obedience to the truths of the Word.

