
=== Junior

Both stories in this chapter should be given to the Juniors with the emphasis on their factual content and on the connection with the Old Testament. Be sure they look up all the references. At the end they should be taught what repentance is and why it is necessary.

What is the last book in the Old Testament?

What does the name Malachi mean?

What great event was foretold through Malachi?

Who did Malachi say would be sent to prepare the way of the Lord?

What is the general theme of all the Gospels?

Now we are studying the Gospel of Luke. We shall not take up the story of the Lord's birth because we have that story on Christmas Sunday.

Our chapter for today contains two stories, one concerning John the Baptist and one concerning the Lord. You remember that in the first verse of the third chapter of Malachi, which was part of our lesson for last Sunday, two messengers were promised. One was the messenger to prepare the way, and the other was "the messenger of the covenant" or the Lord Himself. So our chapter today tells about the fulfillment of both these promises. The prophecy said that there would be wicked people to whom the coming of the Lord would be like a destroying fire, and good people to whom it would be like the rising sun. Two of these good people were Zacharias and his wife Elisabeth.

What was Zacharias's profession?

Who is named as the ancestor of Elisabeth?

You remember that Aaron, the brother of Moses, was the first high priest, that the tribe of Levi and especially the descendants of Aaron were set aside from the other tribes to be the priests, and that instead of a single lot in the land they were given cities throughout the territories of all the tribes to live in. After the people established their worship in the Holy Land, the priests were divided into groups called "courses" (divisions or groups), and each course served in the tabernacle and later in the temple at Jerusalem for one month out of each year. You remember that the altar of incense stood in the Holy Place in front of the entrance to the Holy of Holies, and that incense was burnt upon it regularly as part of the worship.

What was Zacharias doing when the angel appeared to him?

What was the angel's message to him?

What sign did he give him?

The last part of our chapter tells about the fulfillment of the angel's promise, which was also the fulfillment of the last prophecy of Malachi. After John was born and Zacharias was able to speak again, he spoke words which are probably familiar to us all because we sometimes sing them as part of our morning service. They are called the Benedictus from the first word in the Latin version. Benedictus means "blessed."

Who else in our chapter saw an angel?

What did the angel tell Mary?

Where was Mary's home?

In the time of the Lord the Holy Land had come to be marked off in three divisions: Galilee on the north, Judea on the south, and Samaria between them. The Samaritans were descendants of the foreigners who had been brought in from Assyria when the people of Israel were carried away. Most of the Jews lived in Judea where Jerusalem was, although there were some in the other divisions of the land. Galilee was called "Galilee of the Gentiles" because there were so many foreigners there — people from many other nations.

Mary was another of the good people who believed the prophecies of the Old Testament and hoped for the coming of the Lord. There was one particular prophecy which must have come to her when the angel spoke to her. Read it in Isaiah 7:14. It must have been hard for her to believe that she was really the one chosen after all those years to be the mother of the Lord.

What was the child to be named?

What name is commanded in Isaiah 7:14?

Look up Matthew 1:21-23. Both names expressed the character of the Lord. Immanuel means "God with us" and Jesus means "Jehovah is salvation." By these two names it was made clear that the child to be born was Jehovah Himself come into the world to save mankind.

The angel Gabriel is mentioned four times in the Word: Luke 1:19, 26 and in Daniel 8:16, and 9:21. Swedenborg tells us that there is no one angel who is called Gabriel but that this is the name of a whole society of angels, those who particularly love the teaching of the Word that Jehovah Himself came into the world as the savior.

The angel spoke to Mary of her cousin Elisabeth and so Mary went to see Elisabeth, and as soon as Elisabeth saw Mary the Lord showed her that Mary was to be the mother of the promised Messiah. Messiah from the Hebrew language and Christ from the Greek both mean "the anointed one." The words which Mary spoke (verses 46-55) after Elisabeth confirmed the angel's message are called the Magnificat, from the word with which the Latin version of them begins. They are also set to music to be sung in church, especially at Christmas time.

The angel had told Zacharias that the son who was to be born to him would go before the Lord "in the spirit and power of Elias." Elias [KJV] is the Greek form of Elijah. Elijah had gone about the country telling people of their sins and warning them to change their ways or disaster would fall on them. The message of John was the same: "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." John dressed just as the old prophets had dressed (Mark 1:6), and there was a power in his words which made all the people recognize him as a prophet. Those who were looking for someone to tell them the right way to live welcomed him and believed him and were baptized by Him in the Jordan. That is why he is called John the Baptist.

No one can really receive the Lord into his heart and mind as long as he is satisfied with himself and bent on having his own way. He has to recognize his faults and overcome them. This is repentance. But the Lord is always "at hand" to help us and to fill our hearts with His unselfish love as fast as we make room for Him there.

