
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
If this lesson is used following lessons from the Prophets, first see if the children can name the two parts of the Bible. Then introduce the New Testament by reminding them of the meaning of Christmas. Then see if they remember the prophecy about Elijah in Malachi and go on from there with today's story. With the older ones, more should be done, if possible, with the message of John and its effect, and possibly with baptism as a sign of repentance.

---
You have learned that there are two divisions in the Bible, the Old Testament and the New Testament. Our lesson today is our first one in the Gospel of Luke. Christmas marks the birthday of the Lord, and the New Testament is about the life of the Lord when He came into the world.

I wonder if you remember a prophecy from the book of Malachi that someone would be sent to prepare people to receive the Lord when He came into the world. Do you remember who it was to be? It was the prophet Elijah.

Today we read about the fulfillment of that prophecy. Read verse 17 of our lesson.

The Old Testament was written in Hebrew, but the New Testament was written in Greek.

Elias is the form which Elijah takes in the Greek.

So you see the angel told Zacharias that his son was to be the promised Elijah. What was Zacharias doing when the angel appeared to him?

Read what is said about Zacharias and his wife Elisabeth in verse 6.

You see they were among the good people we spoke about last Sunday.

The angel also gave Zacharias a sign so that he would be sure the promise was true.

Zacharias was made dumb and could not speak again until after John was born.

The first words he spoke were the Benedictus, which is sometimes sung in church.

When John grew up, he lived in the wilderness, and the people came out to hear him preach. He dressed just like Elijah and everyone recognized that he was a prophet of the Lord, and once the Lord Himself told the people that John was the messenger promised by Malachi. John showed the people the bad things they were doing and told them: "Repent ye; for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." So they knew that the Lord was about to come, and all those who wanted to be good and welcomed the Lord's coming did repent, and John baptized them in the River Jordan.

That is why he is usually called John the Baptist.

