
=== Senior

The immediate connection between the Old and the New Testaments through the fulfillment of prophecy should be stressed, as well as the early connection between John the Baptist and the Lord. Then discuss the mission of John the Baptist — what it did for the good in the Lord's day and what it means in our lives.

Not only Malachi but many other books of the Old Testament contain wonderful prophecies of the Lord's Advent. In the four hundred years which elapsed between Malachi and the Advent these prophecies were the subject of much study, as we know by the prompt reply given by the chief priests and scribes when Herod asked them where Christ should be born. Some of this study was prompted by fear of a judgment, and some by unhappiness under existing evil conditions. The Jews of that day — like people in all places and at all times — were divided into two groups, those who longed for the coming of a time of righteousness and those who preferred not to change their lives.

The first chapter of Luke gives us more clearly than either Matthew or John the relationship between the Lord and John the Baptist. We can know from the prophecies in the Old Testament that a part of the divine plan was that when the appointed time came, the way of the Lord should be prepared by a forerunner. Malachi calls him Elijah the prophet. That such a forerunner was expected we know from Matthew 11:10-14. Yet, in spite of his own denials, many of his followers wished to believe him the Christ.

The angel Gabriel — Swedenborg tells us that this is the name of a whole angelic society — was sent to announce the birth of John and also that of the Lord. His words to Zacharias concerning John's mission should be carefully compared with those to Mary concerning the Lord. John's mission was "to make ready a people prepared for the Lord," whereas the Lord's was "to reign over the house of Jacob forever."

Even those good people who looked and longed for the coming of the Messiah were in gross darkness and in deep evils. The teachings of the Law and the Prophets had been so confused with the traditions of the elders and so buried under selfishness and worldliness that without preparation no one could have received the Lord. The Lord's truth comes as a destroyer if we have nothing but evil and falsity in our hearts and minds. Humility and repentance are the only ground of salvation.

The angel Gabriel told Zacharias that the child to be born to his wife Elisabeth and to be called John would go before the Lord "in the spirit and power of Elias," Elias [KJV] being the Greek form of Elijah. John himself later (Luke 3:4) claimed to be the promised forerunner of the Lord, and the Lord Himself revealed the same truth to Peter, James, and John after the transfiguration (Matthew 17:10-13). John also dressed like Elijah and, like him, lived in the wilderness.

John's message was "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." The burden of Elijah's message was likewise the need for repentance. The wilderness pictures the barren nature of all of the merely external life, the rough clothing the harshness with which the thought of repentance comes to us, the locusts and wild honey which John ate the scanty satisfaction we derive from the act of repentance.

Although we are told that Zacharias and his wife Elisabeth "were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless," yet even Zacharias was slow to believe the promise of the angel, because from a worldly point of view it seemed impossible of fulfillment. This unwillingness to believe resulted in his dumbness. Swedenborg says that in the internal sense of the Word "dumb" means "those who are not able to confess the Lord, thus neither to preach faith in Him, from ignorance; in which state are the Gentiles outside the Church, and also the simple within the church." It took the actual birth of John to open the mouth of Zacharias, and his first words were the beautiful confession of the Lord which we call the Benedictus.

John preceded the Lord even as to his natural birth, and even before his birth his mother Elisabeth was enabled to recognize that the promise of the Messiah was to be fulfilled in the child of her cousin Mary.

The Lord can come to us only after the work of John is performed in us — only after we open the way for Him by recognizing and fighting our evils. We see people sometimes claiming to be instruments of the Lord, but actually inflated by self-love and proclaiming falsity. This is the effect which religious zeal has in the mind of one who has not first seen and fought his own evils. We need always to pass judgment on ourselves rather than on others. It is a popular fallacy to imagine that man of himself is good; this is contrary to the teaching of the Word and of the church. By nature we incline to evil, and this must be acknowledged before our hearts and minds are open to receive the Lord. Repentance is absolutely necessary to any degree of regeneration and salvation.

Unless we are willing to face honestly our own specific weaknesses and shortcomings, we must remain filled up with self-satisfaction and with the pride of our own intelligence. The Lord's loving, unselfish spirit cannot enter the proud heart.

