
=== Adult

Take up first the New Church doctrine of salvation and the nature of the Lord's temptation on the cross. Then be guided by the interest of the class as to which details of the story you discuss. They may have questions as to one or another incident in the chapter.

---
In the New Church we are familiar with the thought that the passion of the cross was not a matter of physical suffering voluntarily endured by the Lord as a vicarious atonement for the sins of the world. But even today this idea is still frequently expressed, especially by revivalists, and converts are actually solicited through pity for the Lord's physical suffering. Crucifixion was indeed a painful form of death, a true expression of the cruelty in men's hearts at the end of that dispensation. But many others besides the Lord underwent crucifixion, some of them — probably including the apostle Peter — voluntarily. And we know that when the soul is under stress of emotion, men can suffer severe injuries without being conscious of the physical pain. The Lord on the cross was not thinking of His physical body.

The passion of the cross was the last and most severe of the Lord's temptations. See the passage from @AC 1690 below. The Lord, from His earliest childhood up to the last hour of His life in the world, was assaulted by all the hells, against which He continually fought, and subjugated and overcame them, and this solely from love toward the whole human race. @AC 1787 says: "Every temptation is attended with some kind of despair (otherwise it is not a temptation) ... He who is tempted is brought into anxieties, which induce a state of despair as to what the end is to be ... The Lord also, as He endured the most dire and cruel temptations of all, could not but be driven into states of despair." Since the Lord's love was the love of the whole human race, His deepest temptation was despair because they would not be saved. He might have performed a miracle and come down from the cross and so convinced their minds. That this was at least a part of His last temptation we know from verses 29 to 32 of our chapter, for the cry of His enemies was certainly inspired from hell. But such a miracle would not have changed their hearts. He could not interfere with their free choice without destroying them. Read Matthew 23:37.

We recently thought of what betrayal of the Lord means in our own lives. The first part of our chapter today shows us just how that betrayal leads us to crucify Him. The chief priests, we recall, condemned the Lord as a blasphemer because He said He was the Christ. The chief priests represent self-love in the heart. Self-love refuses to acknowledge that the Lord is divine and that the Word is divine truth, because it wishes to determine all things in the interests of self. But our will has to have the cooperation of our understanding. Pilate represents falsity ruling in the mind, and the mind has to consent before truth can be utterly rejected. Pilate could find no actual fault in the Lord — the reason has to admit that His teaching is harmless — but Pilate was "willing to content the people." The people in this case represent all the considerations of self-interest which are stirred up by self-love. So Pilate condemned the Lord and released Barabbas, a rebel and murderer. Is not this a clear picture of the course we take when we are determined to have our own selfish way? We force our minds to justify what we wish to do and so we reject truth altogether and let loose in our souls the willful and evil things which we should be destroying. And we thus mock at the truth, as the Roman soldiers mocked the Lord, pretending to reverence it, but actually falsifying it at its very fountainhead. This falsification of divine truth is pictured by the crown of thorns.

We recognize that the parting of the Lord's garments pictures the way in which the Christian Church was to treat the letter of the Word, each sect taking certain passages as the basis for its separate existence and discarding the rest.

In @AE 519[2] Swedenborg gives us an interesting interpretation - based on Matthew 27:34, 48 rather than on Mark — of the two drinks offered to the Lord at the crucifixion: "Their giving the Lord 'vinegar mingled with gall,' which was also called 'wine mingled with myrrh,' signified the quality of the divine truth from the Word with the Jewish nation, namely, that it was mingled with the falsity from evil, and thus altogether falsified and adulterated, therefore He would not drink it. But that afterwards 'they gave the Lord vinegar in a sponge and placed it upon hyssop' signified the kind of falsity there was among the upright Gentiles, which was falsity from ignorance of the truth, in which there was something good and useful; because this falsity is accepted by the Lord He drank this vinegar. The 'hyssop' upon which they placed it signifies the purification of the falsity." The hyssop is mentioned in this incident as given in John 19:29-30.

When the Lord "gave up the ghost," He finally wholly separated Himself from the finite humanity. @AE 220[5] says: "That 'the veil of the temple was rent in two parts from the top to the bottom' ... signified the union of the Lord's Divine Human with the Divine itself." The veil was the curtain which hid the Holy of Holies from the view even of the priests who ministered in the Holy Place. The Holy of Holies represented the Divine itself, which after the crucifixion was one with the divine human.

That the Scripture (Isaiah 53:9) might be fulfilled and the scene laid for the resurrection story, another person is active in our chapter. It was not the custom to bury the bodies of those who were crucified. In Europe and in England even up to a century or so ago criminals were hanged on gibbets set up to public view at crossroads, and their bodies were left hanging indefinitely as a warning to other would—be malefactors. So it was with the crucified in the Lord's day. Presumably the two thieves who were crucified with the Lord were left in this way. But the Lord had two disciples who were members of the Sanhedrin, the high court of Judaism, and one of them obtained permission from Pilate to bury Jesus' body. Only Joseph of Arimathea is mentioned in Mark, but John (19:39) tells us that Nicodemus came to assist him with the burial. Nicodemus was the one who came to the Lord by night (John 3:1-21), and John tells us (19:38) that Joseph also was the Lord's disciple "secretly for fear of the Jews." But both of them were brave enough to show their reverence for Him openly when their associates had put Him to a shameful death.

The women who watched with the Lord after the disciples had left Him, and who waited to see where His body was laid, represent the simple affection for the Lord which cannot be alienated by adversity. It was to these women that the resurrection was first made known. The sepulcher or tomb in the rock with the great stone rolled in front of the entrance represents the Word as it appears to those who know only the letter, and especially to those who believe that letter to be the product of the minds of men only, and not divine wisdom.

