
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the chief priests and of Pilate and how this story applies to our everyday lives is important for this class. Emphasize what it means to condemn the Lord and free Barabbas. Be sure the young people understand what the temptation on the cross really was and how the Lord, by His victories over temptation, made salvation possible for us.

---
In the time of the Lord the chief priests did not have the power to pronounce a death sentence on anyone. That had to be done by the Roman governor. So the chief priests sent the Lord to Pilate, asking him to sentence the Lord to death. Pilate could find no fault in the Lord, but he soon gave in to the urging of the priests and agreed to sentence Him to be crucified. Let us see if we can understand what this means in our lives. We all know something of the Lord's truth in the Word. If we are selfish, we want to put that truth away where it will not bother us. The high priests represent this selfishness in our hearts. But we are made in such a way that our thinking does not have to agree with our will. Our minds can tell us that we ought to do right even when we want to do wrong. Our minds, like Pilate, can see that the Lord is right. So we often, like the priests, try hard to make our thinking agree to what we want to do. And very often our minds give in just as Pilate did. Remember this when you find yourself trying to make up excuses for doing what you want instead of what you really know is right. Pilate could have released the Lord, but instead he was persuaded to release Barabbas, a rebel and murderer. When our reasoning ability gives in to our selfishness, evil things instead of good ones are given their freedom in our minds and hearts.

Crucifixion was considered the worst form in which death could be inflicted on anyone. The physical suffering was severe and prolonged, and the exposure to the ridicule of the crowd was an added torment. We can understand this latter suffering if we read verses 29 to 32 of our chapter. People have always talked a great deal about these aspects of the Lord's death on the cross, but they were actually the least of His suffering. The Lord, we know, could have saved Himself from the cross. Read Luke 4:28-30, John 8:59, John 10:17-18, 39, and John 19:10-11. He was afraid neither of the physical suffering nor of the ridicule of the people. But because He loved all men — even His enemies — He was tempted to use His divine power to keep them from committing so great a crime. If He had come down from the cross as His enemies dared Him to, they would have had to acknowledge Him as God, but it would not have changed their hearts. The Lord wants us to love Him, not fear Him. Love has to be given freely.

Now read verse 38. To know what the veil of the temple was, read Exodus 26:31-33. It hid the Holy of Holies, where the ark was kept, in an earlier day, from the sight even of the priests who ministered in the Holy Place. In the Word a veil always pictures the covering over the Divine itself which the Lord provides in order that men can bear to look toward Him, just as we put on dark glasses when we need to look toward the sun. While the Lord was in the world, the human nature which He had taken on from Mary was such a "veil." On the cross, when He overcame the last human temptation, He finally put off this veil. That was why, because of its correspondence, the veil of the temple was rent (torn) at that time, and you notice that immediately the centurion who was on guard at the cross — although he could not have known of the rending of the veil in the temple — was given to see that this was indeed God.

The last part of our chapter tells us how Joseph of Arimathea, "an honourable counsellor," asked Pilate for the body of the Lord and placed it in a tomb hewn out of a rock, and rolled a stone in front of the door. The ruling body of Judaism was the Sanhedrin, a council of about seventy of the leading men, including the high priests. Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus (John 3:1-13) were, so far as we know, the only members of the Sanhedrin who believed in the Lord. We learn from John 19:39 that Nicodemus assisted Joseph with the burial. As prominent men they could get the ear of Pilate as the other disciples could not. Joseph had bought fine linen in which to wrap the body and Nicodemus brought the spices used in burials. The linen and the spices correspond to different kinds of truth. Both of these leaders had recognized that the Lord's teachings were the truth, and they wished to honor Him and to preserve the truth which they had found in Him even after the life had left His earthly body. Linen pictures truth from the divine and spices truth from love. These two men and the three women (verse 40) were the only ones of all His followers who did not desert the Lord when He seemed dead. They represent true faith and true love which serve the Lord for the sake of the truth and goodness which they have found in Him and not from any thought of their own future honor or gain.

