
=== Junior

Bring out the position of the Roman governor and his relation to the high priests. The children may like to discuss how far each was to blame for the Lord's death. They are also old enough to understand why the Lord did not save Himself. They should learn the details of the whole story.

For what feast did the Lord come to Jerusalem on Palm Sunday?

On what day did He celebrate it?

What new feast did He institute at that time?

Which of the apostles betrayed the Lord?

How did he show the high priest's servants which person to seize?

Before whom was the Lord first tried?

Of what did the high priest find Him guilty?

Why?

What did Peter do that he was sure he could not do?

At this time the Hebrew nation was under the rule of the Roman empire. The Romans had conquered most of the world. They kept each nation subject by sending out to it a Roman governor with trained troops to take control. The Hebrew priests could not condemn anyone to death. So the high priest sent the Lord to the Roman governor, whose name was Pontius Pilate, and asked him to have the Lord put to death.

What did Pilate ask the Lord?

What did the Lord say?

As we learn from verse 6, it was the custom for the Roman governor at the time of the Passover to free one prisoner — anyone the people chose.

What other prisoner did Pilate have at this time?

What crimes had he committed?

What did Pilate ask the people?

Which prisoner did they ask to have released?

What did they ask Pilate to do with the Lord?

Where was the Lord crucified?

What was written above the cross?

Who were crucified with the Lord?

What did His enemies who were watching tell the Lord to do?

The Lord could have saved Himself from the cross as He had saved Himself at other times. Read Luke 4:28-30, John 8:59, John 10:17-18, 39, and John 19:10-11. No doubt Judas expected Him to save Himself, for when he saw that the Lord was actually taken prisoner, he went to the high priest and tried to save Him by giving back the thirty pieces of silver which had been paid him, and when the high priest refused, Judas threw the money on the floor and went out and hanged himself (Matthew 27:3-5). But the Lord had come into the world to show us the whole way of life, and the life of everyone of us in this world reaches its end in what we call death. The Lord had to die and rise again to show us that death is only one of the necessary steps in our life and that we need not be at all afraid of it. And He wanted to show us that if we are good, nothing that anyone can do to us will really hurt our souls. So He let His enemies do the very worst they possibly could to His body.

What happened in the temple when the Lord died?

What did the centurion (the soldier in charge of the Roman guard) say?

Who asked permission of Pilate to bury the Lord's body?

Where did he place it?

Who watched to see where it was laid?

You remember from the Easter account that it was these two Marys who came to the sepulcher early on Sunday morning with spices, hoping to be able to anoint the body of the Lord, as was the custom, and so were the first to know that the Lord had risen.

The story of the crucifixion seems to all of us a very terrible story, but it is one we need to read and think about because it teaches us especially two things. One is that human beings — all men and women — are selfish by nature, and that if this selfishness in each of us is not recognized and checked, it can lead us to do very cruel and wicked things. The crimes that we read about in the newspapers today can for the most part be traced back to unchecked selfishness. Most of them no doubt began in little acts of dishonesty and cruelty in childhood. We must begin while we are young to hate such things in ourselves as well as in others, and to be honest and kind every day with everyone.

The other lesson is one of gratitude to the Lord for being willing to come into the world and live in a body like ours and suffer not only the physical pain which all material bodies are subject to but the hatred and scorn of the very people whom He was trying to save. Remember always that He could have saved Himself but that if He had, He would not have been able to save us. He won a great victory over all the power of evil by choosing as He did.

