
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the reason why the Lord did not save Himself from death on the cross. Tell the children very simply what crucifixion was, as they will be sure to see pictures of it, but do not let them think that the physical suffering was too important. The older children will also be interested in the other details of the story.

---
You remember that the Lord ate the Passover feast with His disciples, and after the feast He blessed the bread and wine and shared them among the disciples and told them to observe the new feast afterward in memory of Him. That is why we have the Holy Supper in the Christian Church instead of the Passover.

What did He tell them one of them would do?

What did they all say?

It was Judas Iscariot who betrayed the Lord. He took money from the high priests for leading their servants to the Lord. He told them that the one he would kiss would be the one for them to take. Judas was the apostle who had charge of the money from which all their expenses were paid. He had become more interested in adding money to the bag than in serving the Lord. But he probably thought that the Lord would save Himself, as He had at other times.

After the Passover supper Judas led a company of people from the high priest out to the Garden of Gethsemane where the Lord had gone to pray. In order to show them the right person to capture, he went up to the Lord, as he had agreed to do, and kissed Him. Then they took the Lord prisoner, and the chief priests condemned Him and sent Him to Pilate, the Roman governor, to be put to death.

Pilate, the governor, could find no fault in the Lord. Read verses 6 and 7 of our chapter. Pilate wanted to release the Lord. What did the Jews say?

How was the Lord put to death?

Who carried His cross to Golgotha? [Cf., however, John 19:17.]

What was written over the cross?

Who were crucified with Him?

What do we call the day on which this happened? ["Good" in this context means "holy."]

What happened the next Sunday?

What do we call that day?

