
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The difference between the New Church doctrine of salvation and that of other churches should be stressed. The nature of the Lord's temptation on the cross is important, and the reason why He did not save Himself. Show how every detail of the story has an application to our own temptations.

---
The symbol of the Christian Church is the cross, and the cross reminds all Christians that the Lord laid down His life to save mankind. But there is a wide difference of belief among Christians as to just why the Lord allowed Himself to be crucified and as to the nature of the salvation thus accomplished. Some churches believe that by His physical suffering on the cross the Lord paid the penalty for all the sins of man and so purchased from His Father forgiveness for all who would claim forgiveness in His name. The New Church does not believe this.

The Lord did voluntarily die on the cross to save mankind. That He could have saved Himself we know from several other incidents recorded in the Gospels. (See Luke 4:28-30, John 8:59, John 10:17-18, 39, and John 19:10-11.) But if He had, the work for which He came into the world would not have been completed. We believe that although the Lord, as He appeared during His life on earth, was called the Son of God, He was in Himself no other than our heavenly Father. He took on for a time a body and mind like ours on purpose to meet and conquer the power of the hells which were becoming too strong for any finite human being to resist, and with which He Himself could come in contact in no other way. In the body and mind which He assumed He felt all the weakness and temptation we feel, and from the power of the divine love within He was able to overcome them. The temptation on the cross was merely the last and deepest of the whole series of temptations He had been meeting and conquering throughout His life.

It was not the temptation to save Himself from physical suffering — this is a comparatively light temptation which brave men are constantly overcoming. The Lord on the cross was tempted to perform a miracle so great that all men would be forced to acknowledge Him to be God, not for the sake of His own glory, but in the hope that through fear of Him they might be led to amend their lives and be saved. The thought of this possibility was the last remnant of His assumed human nature, for it was contrary to His divine wisdom which knew that salvation must be the result of the free choice of good. Love to the Lord is salvation, and love cannot be forced. So the Lord conquered this last temptation. He let His enemies do their worst and died on the cross. Then on the third day He rose again and in this way showed His followers — those who wanted to believe — that He had told them the truth when He said, "Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do." (Luke 12:4) The Lord saved us by making the hells subject to Him and by showing us that with His help it is possible to overcome every temptation we may meet from the cradle to the grave. This is the salvation of which the cross is the final symbol.

In addition to these general thoughts about the crucifixion, there are many interesting points in our chapter. One is in the correspondence of the chief priests and Pilate. At this time Rome ruled the world, sending out governors with Roman troops to keep the conquered nations in subjection. So, although Roman policy did not interfere with the religion of any nation, the chief priests had only religious power. They could not condemn the Lord to death but could only urge Pilate to pronounce that sentence. The chief priests represent evil in the heart and Pilate falsity in the understanding. Pilate could find no fault in the Lord, but he allowed himself to be persuaded. When we are selfishly bent on having our own way, we always manage to justify ourselves for going ahead with it, even when our arguments are contrary to reason. Then we are apt to bolster up our position by ridiculing the standards of right which we are transgressing, as the soldiers of Pilate mocked the Lord. The freeing of Barabbas instead of the Lord pictures the fact that when we reject the truth which the Lord shows us, we let loose in our minds and hearts the falsity and evil which we should be trying to destroy.

The parting of the Lord's garments among the soldiers pictures the way in which people treat the letter of the Word, taking what they like of it and leaving the rest. This action prefigured the origin of the many Christian sects today, each based on a particular interpretation of a few chosen statements in the Word.

The fact that the Lord was crucified between two thieves represents that His teachings were rated by the leaders as falsities, for thieves correspond to falsities. We shall take up this incident in more detail when we study the Gospel of Luke.

The rending of the veil of the temple — the curtain which hid the Holy of Holies — at the time of the Lord's death is a symbol of the removal of the final separation, thus the final complete union of the Lord's divine human with the Divine itself when the last of the finite humanity was put off. When this takes place in our thought about the Lord, the rational principle in our minds — represented by the centurion — immediately recognizes that Jesus is God.

In the Word burial corresponds to resurrection. We should note that it was not the apostles who buried the Lord's body. Although they had been His closest followers, they all deserted Him when He was taken prisoner. Their hopes were bound up in the person of Jesus. When He died, they felt that the end had come. But there were two men of a different position from the apostles, Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus (John 19:39). They were both "counsellors," members of the Sanhedrin, the high court of Judaism, and they had reached their conclusions about the Lord on the basis of rational consideration of what He said and did rather than through the influence of personal association with Him. They gave the Lord's body the burial necessary for the fulfillment of the spiritual requirements of the Word. And the women, who picture simple unselfish affection, remained with the Lord to the last and watched where He was laid. These women were the first to learn of the resurrection on Sunday morning.

