
=== Intermediate

This class can understand the meaning of Joseph as distinct from his brothers. They all have Joseph in them and if they can see what is meant by trying to get rid of him and by putting him in prison, it may help them to meet some of the temptations to selfishness and worldliness which come with the modern environment.

---
Jacob's twelve sons picture all of our faculties and affections through which we may serve the Lord. The highest of these faculties develop last, because we have to learn to live in this world before our minds are free to think deeply of spiritual things. This does not mean that we do not need to know what is right and try to do it all along, but it is easier to do right in our outward life than it is to think and to feel right.

Joseph was different from his brothers and had dreams which told him that he was to be greater than they; this caused his older brothers to be jealous of him and to try to kill him. Joseph pictures a desire to be truly good in the Lord's sight. It does not come to us until we have had a good deal of experience in trying to lead successful lives. When it does come, we are ready to go back to the Holy Land; but all the faculties and affections which we have developed before it, which are centered on the things of this world, resist being governed by it. The Lord protects our "Joseph" as He protected the Joseph of the Bible story, and does not let it be killed. But for a long time we may put it away in the back of our minds and go on living as if it were dead. This is the time in our lives when Joseph is in prison in Egypt. Egypt in the Word is the land of "memory-knowledge": that is, all the body of facts stored up in our memories.

Even in this land of memory-knowledge, Joseph easily became a great man. I wonder if we can see how this is. When once we have felt the desire to be truly good, we can never again think of the world around us as something just created for our benefit. We know that there are higher things than having good food and clothes and money to spend, and even though we don't yet really want to be unselfish, we know that unselfishness is best and we can see and appreciate it in other people. We can see the use which trouble and temptation and hard work and disappointments serve, and things in life fall into their true order in our minds. So Joseph was able, even while he was a servant in Egypt, to rise to a position of control over the household of the master. Then came the effort of Potiphar's wife to make him do what he knew to be wrong. The desire to be good cannot be used in this way, and our selfish desires try to shut it up so that it won't bother us. Joseph is cast into prison.

The butler and the baker were servants of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. They represent our senses, which serve us while we are in this world. The Lord, when He instituted the Holy Supper, said that the bread was His body and the wine His blood. Bread pictures goodness and wine truth, and the Lord's body and blood are the divine goodness and truth which nourish us if we accept them from Him. When the butler and the baker came to Joseph for the interpretation of their dreams, he told them that interpretations belonged to God; that is, that only a knowledge of the Lord's truth could show them the meaning of what happened to them. In the butler's dream he was making the wine perform its proper use, pouring it into his master's cup; but in the baker's dream the birds were carrying off the bread from his basket before it reached his master's table. So the dreams meant that the butler would be restored to his proper place but the baker would have to die. This is a very important lesson for us. When our senses perform their true use of bringing truth into our minds so that we can serve the Lord more intelligently, all will be well with us. But when we let false ideas, like the thieving birds, take away our goodness, our senses are no longer true servants and what they tell us is destructive to our spiritual life. An example of this is found in the kind of books we choose to read. If we choose good, wholesome books which give us a picture of life as it ought to be, our minds remain clean and healthy; but when we read bad books, we take into our minds ideas which steal away our good affections and destroy our souls. Our Joseph — our honest desire to be good in the Lord's sight — tells us truly what will happen to us. This is proved many times in our experience. Sometimes, when everything is going well with us, we — like the butler after he had been restored to favor — forget all about Joseph down in his prison. But the time comes again, as it did later in the Bible story, when something reminds us, and then we are sorry for our forgetfulness, and Joseph is brought out of prison and set over our whole life.

The story of Joseph is a beautiful story and one which will mean more and more to you as your experience grows. You need to know it well and to read it often. You will find also that it is a picture of the Lord's life when He was on earth, and that many of the things that happened to Joseph are very similar to things that happened to the Lord. Joseph is one of the people in the Bible who most clearly picture the Lord.

