
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Discuss especially the reasons why Joseph was disliked by his brothers and point out how liable we are to belittle people who seem to be different from ourselves. Joseph's uprightness and desire to serve the Lord should be cited as the reason why the Lord could take care of him and why he always rose to positions of trust and authority. Try to cover the whole story of Joseph, getting as much as possible from what the class themselves remember from former years.

---
Of all his sons Jacob loved Joseph best and this made the older sons jealous. Also Joseph was different from the others. The Lord was with him especially and he had dreams which showed him that he was to be greater than his brothers or even his father and mother. The brothers hated him for this, also. They stripped him, threw him in a pit and plotted to kill him, but finally decided to sell him instead. While they were making their plans, caravans of Ishmaelites and Midianites, on their way to Egypt, came to the pit and drew Joseph up out of the pit, and took him to Egypt with them. Our lesson today begins with the selling of Joseph to Potiphar, captain of the king's guard in Egypt.

The Lord was with Joseph. Read Genesis 45:4-8, which tells of his reunion with his brothers many years later and his forgiveness of them. Wherever Joseph went, the Lord was with him no matter how hard his outward condition might be. We can see this in our story today. Joseph's ability and honesty at first led Potiphar to advance him until he was ruler over all Potiphar's household. But again someone plotted against him.

Who was it this time?

Potiphar believed his wife's story. What did he do with Joseph?

Yet you see that even in the prison Joseph's ability and honesty attracted attention and led the keeper of the prison to put him over the other prisoners. Even today men who have really committed crimes, if they show a disposition to obey the prison authorities and to improve, are made "trusties" and given certain privileges. Joseph had done no wrong.

Which servants of Pharaoh were in the prison at the same time?

Pharaoh is the name by which all the kings of Egypt were called, just as we call the head of our government President, no matter what his own name is.

What led the chief butler and the chief baker to come to Joseph for help?

What did Joseph tell them about the interpretation of dreams?

You see the real difference between Joseph and other people was that Joseph knew that all goodness and wisdom and power were in the Lord and not in himself, and he looked to the Lord for guidance and tried to serve Him. So the Lord could show Joseph what was true and right.

What was the chief butler's dream about? What did Joseph tell him it meant?

What was the chief baker's dream about? What did Joseph tell him?

Did the dreams come true?

There is something in the literal story which may show us the difference between these two men. The butler was willing to tell Joseph his dream as soon as Joseph said that interpretations belonged to God, but the baker waited until he found that the interpretation of the butler's dream was good before he told his dream. That is, the baker was willing to let God into the picture only when he thought it would be profitable to him. We are sometimes like the baker: we like to hear good things about ourselves, but we don't want to be told when we have not been good.

What did Joseph ask of the butler?

Did the butler remember?

Sometimes we promise things when we are in trouble and want help, and then forget all about our promises after the trouble is over.

But the butler did remember later. Pharaoh had a dream which no one could interpret, and that reminded the butler; and, because he was really a good man, he was sorry he had forgotten his promise. Read Genesis 41:9-13. Pharaoh sent for Joseph, and because Joseph could interpret his dream, he made him ruler under himself over the whole land of Egypt. Later, when famine came, Joseph was able to invite his father and his brothers and all their families to come and live in Egypt until the famine was over. So he saved their lives, and helped them to settle in the best part of Egypt - the land of Goshen. The hard things which had happened to Joseph enabled him to be of great service to the others. But this would not have been true if Joseph had not wanted to serve the Lord and the neighbor. If we have this good desire, everything that happens to us can be turned by the Lord into a means of making us better and stronger men and women, and more useful to the world.

