
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Primary class needs to know that Joseph was Jacob's favorite son and the reason why his brothers were jealous of him. Then read them verses 8 through 23 of chapter 40. You will probably have to explain what a butler is. More of the beginning of the Joseph story should then be given. Stress the fact that the Lord was with Joseph so that he prospered in spite of everything that was done by his enemies. Tell the class also the end of his story and how he forgave his brothers and took care of his whole family.

---
Today we have a story about Joseph, Jacob's favorite son. Joseph had ten older brothers and they hated him, partly because his father loved him best and partly because he was brighter and more unselfish than they were, and the Lord gave him some wonderful dreams which showed that he was to be greater than his brothers and even greater than his father and mother. The Lord also gave him power to interpret dreams — that is, to tell what dreams meant.

One day, when his brothers were all tending their flocks away from home, the older brothers decided to get rid of Joseph. First they thought they would kill him, but then they decided it would be better to sell him. They sold him to a caravan of Ishmaelites, who were on their way to Egypt. In Egypt Joseph was sold to a man named Potiphar, who was captain of the king's guard. The king of Egypt was always called Pharaoh.

Joseph was always faithful to the Lord and honest in everything he did, and the Lord always took care of him. Potiphar made him ruler over his household, but Potiphar's wife became angry with Joseph and told her husband lies about him, and Potiphar believed his wife and put Joseph in prison.

Even in prison Joseph made such a good impression on his keepers that they put him in charge of all the other prisoners.

Two of Pharaoh's servants were in prison at the same time.

Who were these two servants?

Why did they come to Joseph one day?

What did Joseph tell them about the interpretation of dreams?

What was the chief butler's dream?

What did Joseph tell him it meant?

What was the chief baker's dream?

What was Joseph's interpretation of it?

How did the interpretations come true?

What did Joseph ask the butler to do for him?

Did the butler remember?

Although the butler forgot Joseph as soon as he was free, later - when Pharaoh himself had a strange dream which none of his wise men could interpret — the butler remembered Joseph and told Pharaoh about him. Joseph was taken out of prison and was able to interpret Pharaoh's dream; so Pharaoh decided this was a very wise man, and he made him ruler — under himself — of all Egypt. So some time afterward, when there was a great famine in the Holy Land, Joseph was able to save his father and his brothers and their families, and Pharaoh invited them to come to Egypt to live during the famine, and gave them the best part of the land to live in.

