
=== Senior

A good lesson for the Seniors is found in the power of Joseph to interpret dreams. Only our recognition of the Lord and of His power in the life can give us an understanding of the experiences we have and enable us to be of real help to other people. People who persist in keeping Joseph shut up in the back of their minds are left to their own imaginations, and one man's guess is then as good as another's as to the meaning and purpose of life. Young people should be led to feel that it is a sad thing for people to be in spiritual darkness.

---
Swedenborg explains the meaning of Joseph in various ways.

Perhaps the simplest is in @AC 3969, where he says that Joseph represents "the good from which is truth." We may think of this as the deep desire to be good in the Lord's sight rather than merely in the sight of men. It is this desire which leads us to read and study the Word and to accept correction from it in our own feelings and thoughts as well as in our outward lives. You remember that when Joseph's older brothers saw him coming, they said, "Behold, this dreamer cometh." (Genesis 37:19) This was because Joseph had had dreams which showed him that he was to be greater than any of his brothers and even than his father and mother. Our spiritual affections are greater than our natural affections, but the natural affections resist the thought and try to put it out of sight "in the back of the mind." The brothers first put Joseph in a pit and then he was sold into Egypt. Egypt is the land of "memory-knowledges," as we remember from the story of Abram. We need memory—knowledges, but we should not be bound by our knowledge of natural science so that we reject spiritual truths.

Joseph had the power to interpret dreams; that is, to see the true meaning and effect of the experiences that come to us. This power comes to us from the genuine desire to do right in the Lord's sight. Sometimes, perhaps for a long time, it makes us uncomfortable and we try to shut it up. It is so much easier and more pleasant to forget about right and wrong and go on getting what we can of fun and satisfaction for ourselves without looking at our spiritual future at all. But the Lord protected Joseph in Egypt. First he rose to favor in the house of Potiphar, captain of the king's guard. Even in our time of most complete devotion to worldly pursuits we can see that it is to our advantage to go to church and to associate ourselves with churchgoing people. Eventually, however, this association with religion comes into conflict with our selfish affection — pictured by Potiphar's wife — which is trying to use religion selfishly and wants to control our higher impulses. Then we put away our religious feeling still more deeply. Joseph is cast into prison.

Pharaoh's chief butler and chief baker were also in prison. Pharaoh represents the principle which is at the moment ruling over the things in our memories — sometimes the Pharaoh is a good ruler and sometimes an evil one. His servants are the bodily senses which bring into the mind facts necessary to maintain it. In the Holy Supper the bread represents goodness and the wine truth. The butler represents those senses which bring in things which affect the intellect, while the baker represents those senses which primarily move the will. Our senses are orderly servants when their ministrations lead us to truth and good, disorderly when they deceive us and lead us to evil. It is significant that when Joseph said, "Do not interpretations belong to God?" the butler did not hesitate to tell his dream, but the baker waited until he found that the interpretation of the butler's dream was good. The butler in his dream was pouring wine into Pharaoh's cup, performing his proper use; but in the baker's dream birds were stealing the bread before it reached Pharaoh. We may think here of the parable of the Sower and the wayside, or hard—trodden path, which offered no soil for the seeds so that the birds of the air carried them off. These are birds in a bad sense, or falsities which destroy goodness before it is taken into the life.

The whole story of Joseph is especially important for young people just starting out in life. The temptation is to become so absorbed in the life of the world, in the occupation or studies chosen, that the thought of religion is put away into the memory instead of being kept in the forefront of the daily life. But Joseph was to be the savior of his people; in time of famine they were to come to him for food and protection. Sooner or later in life come troubles which cannot be met except in the light and strength of faith in the Lord. The Lord preserves our "Joseph," however we may try to get rid of him, until the time when we seek him out and put ourselves under his protection.

