
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What was the book sealed with seven seals? the Word

Junior: Who opened it? the Lord

Primary: What did John see when the first seal was opened? white horse

Primary: What were the colors of the other three horses? red, black, pale

Junior: What was the rider on the pale horse called? Death

Junior: Who were seen when the fifth seal was opened? the good under the altar

Junior: Who were seen when the sixth seal was opened? the evil

Junior: What did these last people ask? let the rocks hide us

Junior: What happened immediately after the seventh seal was opened? silence

Primary: How many angels did John see standing before God? seven

Primary: What were given them? trumpets

Primary: What did an eighth angel have? gold censer

Junior: What did he first do with his censer? put incense on it

Junior: What did he then fill it with? fire

Primary: What happened when he cast it to the earth? thunder, lightning, earthquake

Junior: In the two chapters of our lesson how many trumpets were sounded? six

Junior: Can you tell some of the things that happened? hail, fire, mountains into sea, star fell, third of sun darkened

Junior: What was the name of the star that fell from heaven? Wormwood

Junior: What two names are given for the angel of the bottomless pit? Abaddon, Apollyon (destroyer)

Primary: Did the people to whom all these things happened repent? no

Intermediate: What do these two chapters treat of in their internal sense? the gradual destruction of truth and goodness in first Christian era

Senior: What is it which determines whether we go to heaven or to hell? whether we follow or reject the Lord's guidance

== THE WOMAN AND THE DRAGON — Revelation 12

The powerful picture presented in this chapter contains very important lessons for our young people as well as for adults. To the younger children it may be given as one of the visions of John, the meaning of which they will study when they are older. They should be impressed with the details of the figure of the woman and of that of the dragon and led to look forward to the time when they can understand their meaning. The identity of the dragon with the serpent in the Garden of Eden should be stressed.

