
=== Junior

We have seen what repentance is and the necessity for it. This lesson should give the children a technique for overcoming their faults. It may even be reduced to a set of rules: (1) Recognize the particular fault. (2) Find and commit to memory a passage of Scripture which forbids this fault or strongly recommends the opposite conduct. (3) When you catch yourself indulging in your fault, say to yourself, "The evil spirits are trying to stir me up to do wrong." (4) Repeat your passage of Scripture to yourself — or even aloud, if that helps — and keep repeating it more and more thoughtfully until the temptation is passed. (5) Thank the Lord for helping you, and remember that the angels are now near you. (6) Turn immediately to some good and useful activity which will occupy your attention and keep you from slipping back into your former state. As usual, have the children look up all the references suggested in their notes.

Who was John the Baptist?

What was his message?

Why was the Lord baptized by John?

What sign was given from heaven? 

What did the voice from heaven say?

When the Lord was on earth, He was tempted to do wrong just as we are. Our lesson today is about His temptations. It is the only story in the Bible which tells directly that He was tempted, but we must understand that it is a parable describing the different kinds of temptations which He was meeting and overcoming all through His life from His infancy to His death on the cross.

The devil is not one "super—evil" person. In the other life all who have chosen to love evil rather than good and therefore are in the hells are called devils. "The devil" means the whole power of evil. "Satan" in the Bible means the whole power of falsity.

After His baptism the Lord went into the wilderness and fasted for forty days and forty nights. Did you ever make up your mind that you would be good — better than you had ever been before — and find it pretty hard, dry work? This is like the Lord's fasting in the wilderness. And then, just as you are feeling as if you would die if you couldn't do some of the old naughty things, someone comes along and tries to get you to do one. If you have ever had this experience, you can understand why in the Bible this story of the Lord's temptations comes just where it does.

What are the three temptations in the story?

Now look at the Lord's answers to the tempter in verses 4, 7, and 10. What series of three words occurs in each of them?

Where are all these answers "written"?

Look up Deuteronomy 8:3, 6:16, and 6:13.

The Lord answered the devil with quotations from the Scriptures. This is just what we ought to do when we are tempted, first because thinking what the Bible says helps us to realize how wrong the thing is, and second because the Lord is in His Word and His power can come into our hearts through it and help us to have courage to do right. If you have a particular fault which you are trying to overcome, the best thing to do is to learn a verse from the Word which either speaks against that fault or commands its opposite, and say this verse to yourself every time you are tempted. Say it over and over again, if necessary, until you no longer feel like doing wrong. The effort to remember it and say it will help to take your mind off of the wrong thing on which it was bent. And when the temptation has been overcome, you will be happy in doing right. Read verse 11. When we have won a victory over temptation, we feel a special kind of satisfaction and happiness. Then we may know that the angels are close to us and that it is their happiness which we are feeling. Whenever you are tempted, try to remember that if you decide to do something wrong, you are choosing the company of devils, but if you decide to do what is right, you are choosing the company of the angels.

