
=== Notes for Parents

You remember that the Lord's stay in Egypt when He was an infant pictured the fact that in His assumed humanity He began in ignorance just as we do and had to acquire knowledge in His memory by learning it, and that the knowledge He particularly chose to acquire was the letter of the Old Testament Scriptures. Our lesson for today shows how He made use of some of this knowledge. We all know from experience that when we make a good resolution, we are almost immediately tempted to break it. This is why in the Scripture story the Lord's baptism is immediately followed by His forty days of temptation in the wilderness. Although no doubt the Lord did spend these forty days in the wilderness wrestling with temptation in preparation for His public ministry, the account as it is given us in the Bible is symbolic. The three temptations represent all the Lord's temptations — which He had been undergoing from infancy and continued to undergo to the last one on the cross — and all our temptations. For temptation is of three types in its essential character: (1) the temptation to be satisfied with an external appearance of goodness instead of looking constantly to the Lord for guidance; (2) the temptation to think that if we go to church and profess to believe in the Lord, He will somehow get us into heaven no matter what kind of life we live; and (3) the temptation to turn from the Lord altogether and spend our lives trying to get all we can for ourselves. You will find these three types pictured by the three temptations in the story if you think about them.

The devil in the story is also a symbolic figure, picturing the influence of the hells, which are always trying to stir up our inherited selfishness in order to do us harm. There is no one great devil, but all the evil spirits in hell are called devils. It may help us if in temptation we realize that the evil promptings which arise in our hearts and minds are not our own but are from hell, and that we can reject them, if we will, with the Lord's help.

And in our story the Lord teaches us plainly how to get that help. In each case He answered the tempter with the words, "It is written," and quoted Scripture. The Lord's power is in the letter of the Word. The letter of the Word is our connecting link with the Lord and the angels, and they reach us through the passages from the Word which we have in our memories. This is why it is so important for us to read the Word regularly and for our children to hear it read and to memorize verses from it.

Most of us have some particular fault which we say is our "besetting sin." If we really want to overcome it, there is no better way than to find some verse in the Word which either expressly forbids it or commands its opposite, memorize the verse, and repeat it every time the temptation strikes. We have suggested that even the youngest children learn the Lord's words from our chapter, "Get thee hence, Satan," and say them whenever they are tempted to do anything you have forbidden them to do. And none of us is too old or too good to need and use these words often.

