
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this lesson the Adults will probably be most interested in the historical facts concerning the return and rebuilding, as these facts are so scattered through the Bible that most people do not have a clear picture from their own reading. The reason for the return is also an essential lesson, and the meaning of the lesson for our own lives should, of course, be pointed out.

---
In the last verse of the second book of Kings we read that in the thirty-seventh year of the captivity of Judah the king of Babylon began to show favor to Jehoiachin, the captive king. This was the beginning of the Lord's mercy in the fulfillment of the prophecy of Jeremiah (Jeremiah 29:10)* that after seventy years the people should be permitted to return to the Holy Land. In Ezra 1:1 we read that "the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia" to have the temple rebuilt. We recall that Daniel converted Nebuchadnezzar to belief in Jehovah as the God of heaven. The later conquerors of Babylon, Darius the Mede and Cyrus the Persian, accepted this belief. The captives of Judah had prospered in worldly ways in Babylon and many of them had lost the desire to return to their own land. Cyrus bade all those who wished to do so to return and rebuild the temple, and he commanded those who preferred to remain in Chaldea to help the others "with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem." Cyrus also gave them back the vessels of gold and silver which Nebuchadnezzar had taken from the temple. We are told that those who chose to go back in this first return numbered 42,360 besides 7,337 servants and maids. Zerubbabel was the leader of this return.

[*See also 25:11-12. Cf. Psalm 90:10.]

About eighty years later, in the reign of Artaxerxes, there was a second return under Ezra. At least 1750 men with their families returned at this time. Ezra was a direct descendant of Aaron and thus a priest as well as a scribe. Josephus says that he had been high priest of those who were left in Babylon. It is apparent that he was in high favor with the Persian king and he was given full authority to raise funds for the journey and for the service of the temple, to dispose affairs in Jerusalem, to appoint judges and magistrates, and to punish offenders even by death. The book of Ezra does not claim to be prophetic; it is a simple historical record beginning with the return under Zerubbabel and ending about a year after Ezra's return. Nehemiah (chapter 8) gives us an account of a great gathering of the people in Jerusalem at the feast of tabernacles, at which Ezra read to them from the Law. (Ezra and Nehemiah do not have an inner sense.)

In @AE 1029[end] Swedenborg gives us an interesting explanation of the captivity and return (see below). This passage explains in part why there is no actual account in the books having an inner sense of the return from captivity. The people returned because it was necessary that the Word and the forms of worship be preserved in the Holy Land until the time was ripe for the Advent, but the people themselves could no longer be used to represent anything of good and truth. Three prophets — Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi — were sent to them to show them their condition and to hold forth to the few good individuals the promise of the Messiah, but the details of their further history were not part of the prophetic Word, and are of interest to us only as they may help us to see the background of the Lord's life.

The purpose of Cyrus in allowing the people to return to the Holy Land was that they should build the house of the Lord, but after the foundations were laid, the work was discontinued for some sixteen years. The Samaritans — the aliens who had been brought in to take the place of the Israelites — offered to help in the rebuilding of the temple, but their assistance was refused by Zerubbabel, and from that time they hindered the work in every possible way and finally sent a letter to the current king of Babylon representing that Jerusalem had always been a rebellious city and should not be rebuilt. Their letter influenced the king to order the work on the temple stopped. And the men of Judah made no protest at that time. At last, however, under the exhortation of the prophets Haggai and Zechariah, they sent a delegation to the new king, Darius, and at their request Darius hunted out the original decree of Cyrus, which as a law of the Medes and Persians could not be changed. So the work was undertaken again and completed in four years, a period of a little more than twenty years elapsing between the laying of the foundation and the completion of the temple. It was dedicated with appropriate ceremonies and offerings and with the celebration of the Passover. Throughout the Old Testament the celebration of the Passover signalized the accomplishment of each step in the progress of the nation and each great reform.

We recall that the temple pictures the dwelling place of the Lord in us, a character built according to the Lord's plan. The rebuilding of the temple pictures an effort to return to goodness after one has fallen into evil. The prophet Haggai shows us how quickly the people were turned from their high purposes when once they had actually returned to the Holy Land. They built their own houses but let the house of the Lord lie waste. This is a picture of a life outwardly reformed but lacking genuine consecration to the Lord - still caring for self first. This kind of reformation does not bring happiness or peace. "Ye looked for much, and, lo, it came to little; and when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why? saith the Lord of hosts. Because of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house." The ark was gone from the Holy of Holies. There is no mention of its being preserved or restored after the destruction of Solomon's temple. The heart was empty of the Lord's presence. The restoration of the nation was merely an external one.

So it is with us sometimes when we try to reform. The way back is not so easy or so happy as we expected. We reinstate ourselves in orderly external living and perhaps in the respect of the community, but our real character must be built up all over again, and that is a long, slow process. The Lord does not come to the new temple until we have fully realized our own helplessness and know that nothing but His presence can save us or bring us happiness and peace. No temple which we erect with our own reputation or glory in view can endure. The temple of Zerubbabel suffered one partial destruction and another rebuilding before the Lord's time, and this structure fell into complete decay, and under Herod a new temple — the one of the Gospels — was erected. This was finally destroyed by the Romans in 70 A.D.

But the prophets of the restoration period firmly held out to those who would be faithful the promise that their days of mourning should end. "But unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings" (Malachi 4:2). "The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the Lord of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the Lord of hosts." (Haggai 2:9) The Old Testament closes with the promise of sure reward to those who look to the Lord instead of to self and persistently obey Him.

