
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In teaching this lesson emphasize the fact that, while the returned people of Judah felt that external circumstances were keeping them from finishing the temple, Haggai showed the real cause. In the same way, our own failures to grow spiritually actually come from within ourselves, no matter what excuses we may give for them. "Be honest with yourself" is a good rule to remember.

---
After Cyrus of Persia conquered Babylon the captives from Judah were told that they might return to their own land. Many preferred to remain in Babylon because they were prosperous there. Those who returned were those who cared enough for their religion and their homeland to give up the comforts of Babylon for an unknown future in Canaan. Babylon represents the love of dominion from the love of self. This shows itself in each one of us in the tendency to think of ourselves as the center of everything and to expect others to do what we want. Such an attitude does enable people often to become successful and rich in a worldly sense, but Babylon is not our true home and we are called to leave it and return to the Holy Land of spiritual living.

The gold and silver vessels of the temple, carried off at the time of the destruction of Jerusalem, had been preserved in Babylon in the houses of the Babylonian gods and were now given up by Cyrus to be restored to their proper use. Any container is a symbol of doctrine; the gold and silver vessels of the temple picture the doctrines of good and truth from the Word which teach us how to live rightly. But even these teachings can be employed in the service of self. The person who acts from so—called "enlightened self-interest" will keep the commandments in their external form. This is like the temple vessels kept in the houses of the Babylonian gods. But we ought to obey these doctrines from a desire to serve the Lord and not self, to do right because the Lord wills it and not because we feel we shall gain by it. The world today needs this type of return to the Lord from its captivity to selfish and worldly principles.

So the remnant of Judah had to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple on its true site. It was also necessary for them to return because the Holy Land was to be the scene of the Lord's life on earth. This was partly because He came to fulfill the prophecies in the Word and partly because of the correspondence of all the places in the Holy Land, which had been established in the time of the Ancient Church.

But, even after their return, they were more than twenty years in completing the new temple. The book of Ezra, although it does not contain an inner sense, tells the story. The Samaritans, you may remember, were the descendants of the people brought in by the Assyrians to take the place of the people of Israel in the northern part of the Holy Land. Because the returned people refused to allow the Samaritans to have a part in the rebuilding of the temple, the Samaritans misrepresented them to the king of Babylon and he commanded them to stop building. This action was used as an excuse to abandon the building, but it was only an excuse.

The prophet Haggai gives the real reason when he says: "Is it time for you, o ye, to dwell in your ceiled houses, and this house lie waste?" Our "ceiled houses" are our little narrow selfish satisfactions, our comforts, our pleasures, our "rights" of which we take such good care. The house of the Lord which we should be building first is a character based on humility and service to the Lord. The building may seem to interfere with our getting things we want, even things we imagine to be necessary to our physical life, but Haggai shows that no matter how hard we work, if we do not build the Lord's house in the center of our lives, nothing we do will really prosper or bring us the satisfaction we expect. "Consider your ways. Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes." Those who are thinking of themselves are never satisfied with what they have.

