
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There is much interesting historical material for the Older Children in this lesson. The teacher should read carefully the first part of the Adult notes and summarize it for the children. Have them find the book of Ezra in the Bible and repeat the information they have already received concerning the books of the Bible which are not part of the Word and their value to us. Stress Haggai's rebuke and the necessity of putting the Lord first in our lives.

---
The people of Judah were not ill—treated in Babylon. And also they had something to look forward to, for the Lord had promised that after seventy years they would return to their own land. Read Jeremiah 29:10.

What Hebrew prophet rose to great power in Babylon?

Who were his three friends?

What did they do which brought them into danger?

Who saved them?

What was the effect on the king of Babylon?

When, not many years after the people of Judah were taken captive, the Persians became rulers of Babylon, their kings followed the example of Nebuchadnezzar and recognized Jehovah as a God to be respected. Finally the Lord put it into the heart of king Cyrus to allow the Hebrews to go back to the Holy Land and rebuild the temple at Jerusalem. Find the book of Ezra in your Bible. Ezra does not have an inner sense and therefore is not a book of the Word, but it gives us the history of the return of the people from captivity.

The first six chapters of Ezra tell the story of the rebuilding of the temple. It is an interesting story. When the people arrived at Jerusalem and looked at the ruined site of the temple, they first took an offering to pay for the work of rebuilding. Then they scattered to set up their own homes throughout the land and to plant crops. In the seventh month they went to Jerusalem to celebrate their harvest feast, the feast of tabernacles (Leviticus 23:33-36). At that time they set up the great altar for burnt offerings, and the next year they laid the foundations of the temple. But the Samaritans (who, you remember, had been brought into the land to take the place of the people of Israel) made trouble for them, and for sixteen years they were afraid to continue building.

What prophet did the Lord send to rebuke them?

What did Haggai say was the real reason for their delay?

What had been the result to them?

This time they obeyed the prophet, and in four years they finished the temple.$ Cyrus had allowed them to bring back the vessels of the temple worship which had been carried off to Babylon by Nebuchadnezzar. But there was one thing that never came back. That was the ark. We know that the ark was in the Holy of Holies of Solomon's temple, but there is no record of what happened to it when the temple was destroyed. The presence of the Lord with the people was through the ark. So, after they came back, they no longer represented the Lord's church on earth. The reason they were allowed to return was because it had been prophesied that the Lord would come into the world among the Jews and in the Holy Land. There are some records of their history during the four hundred years before that event took place, but they are not in our Bible. All we have are the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, which tell of their return and the events which immediately followed it, and the books of three prophets — Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi - who were sent to make sure they did what was necessary and to encourage the few good people who still remained among them by renewed promises of the coming of the Messiah.

[*See Ezra 3:8-6:15 for fuller details. -Editor]

After the temple was completed, they celebrated the Passover. Then they settled down into a type of national life, but they were always under the control of some foreign nation — Babylon first, and others later. You remember that when the Lord finally came, although the Jews had their own king, Herod, they were really ruled by the Roman governor.

