
=== Senior

The same point suggested for the Intermediates should be further developed with the Seniors, carrying it into wider fields — business, politics, etc. Young people should face this tendency, which we all have, to shift responsibility for our failures to other influences of heredity or environment, and to put off real self-examination and correction.

---
The books of Ezra and Nehemiah give us the historical account of the return of the people of Judah from captivity, the rebuilding of the temple, and the reorganization of national life immediately following. These two books do not have an inner meaning, but like other such books which are bound in our Bible they give us much helpful information and background material for our study of the Word. In Ezra 1:1-2 we read that "in the first year of the reign of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia," and Cyrus, in the proclamation he made at that time, said that the Lord "charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah." Persia had at this time conquered and taken over the territory which had been Babylon. Jeremiah (29:10) had prophesied that after seventy years of captivity in Babylon the people would return to the Holy Land. Their return was necessary in order that the temple might be rebuilt and Judaism re-established in the Holy Land in preparation for the Lord's Advent there according to prophecy.

It is interesting to compare the circumstantial account of the rebuilding of the temple in the historical record of Ezra with the brief picture of the real heart of the matter given through the prophet Haggai. In Ezra we see the events as they looked on the outside, particularly as the people wished to record and remember them. In Haggai we see the hidden spiritual causes behind the events. From Ezra we might assume that the interference of the Samaritans was the real cause of the sixteen year lapse in building operations. But from Haggai we learn that the cause was the willingness of the people themselves to find excuses for taking care of their own comfort instead of serving the Lord.

In verse 2 of our chapter we read: "This people say, The time is not come, the time that the Lord's house should be built." How often we allow apparent difficulties to persuade us to put off something we know we ought to do! This is true even in our own church. People say, "The world is not ready for the New Church doctrines; let us build up a strong organization first, and then the world will listen to us." We draw back from possible opposition, just as the people in Haggai's time drew back before the threats of the Samaritans, when all the while our failure to bring forth fruit is the result of this very faint-heartedness and concern for our own comfort. Notice that the conditions described in Haggai 1:6 are the fulfillment of a prophecy made in Micah 6:14-15.

All history can be studied in the light of a comparison between the point of view of Ezra and that of Haggai. We may imagine, for example, that the world wars were the result of certain political and economic conditions created by our enemies, but the real cause was worldliness and selfishness in the hearts of all people, including ourselves. Wars, even world wars, begin in the hearts of individual men and women. Again, people imagine that peace can be attained and preserved by economic and political adjustments and by armies and navies and air forces and nuclear weapons. But peace begins in the hearts of individuals with humility and love to the Lord and the neighbor, for peace can come only from the Prince of Peace. If we cannot be just and merciful in our personal relations and settle our personal differences in the light of the Lord's teachings, we are not on the side of world peace. The temple of the Lord must be built first, the dwelling place of the Lord in the hearts and minds of individual men and women.

Ezra records that when the foundation of the new temple was laid, the old men who had seen the temple of Solomon mourned because the new one was so much less complete and impressive, and Haggai (Haggai 2:3) reminds them of this feeling of disappointment. We are likely to be disappointed with our first efforts to rebuild a character that has been allowed to deteriorate. We all know how hard and discouraging is the effort to break a bad habit once it has been formed. But Haggai promises that if we are faithful the final result will be beyond all our expectations: "The glory of the latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the Lord of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the Lord of hosts."

