
=== Notes for Parents

Have your children ever asked you, or have you ever wondered yourself, how so many human beings and animals and food enough to last them several months could have been crowded into a boat only about 450 feet long, 75 feet wide, and 45 feet high? Or, for that matter, have you asked yourself how it was possible for it to rain so much — even in forty days — that the flood covered the mountains? Many people have asked these questions. The truth is that this story is in that part of the Bible which was taken from the Ancient Word; it is written entirely in symbol language and not meant to be taken as literal history.

Sometimes when a person yields to a very severe temptation, we say of him: "It was too much for him to stand up to; he was just swept off his feet." And we often speak of the storms of life. The people of the Most Ancient Church did not always use their independence in an unselfish way. Neither do we. And we know that when our children want their own way, it is very often not a good way. It is all too likely to be selfish, injuring other people rather than helping them. The descendants of these early people yielded more and more to the temptation to use their independence selfishly, and these tendencies were inherited from generation to generation and grew until the people became monsters of selfishness. The stories of the serpent and of Cain and Abel describe this decline. The genealogies recorded in Genesis 4 and 5 do not really tell of the birth of individual men but of the succession of whole generations of people. In time their selfish desires and false thoughts became so great that they were "swept away" as by a flood.

But always some few people continued to try to be good. These are described in the symbol story of Noah; and because they built their lives according to the Lord's commands, as Noah built the ark, they could ride out the flood of evil and falsity. Read Matthew 7:24-27. When we are tempted to do what we know is wrong, our only way of safety is to ask the Lord for help and stick fast to the commandments. It may seem hard at first — we may feel like Noah shut up in the ark and tossed about on the flood — but if we are steadfast, the time will come when the temptation will no longer trouble us and we shall be able to step out into a fuller and freer life. This is the lesson of our story today, but we should also know that each detail in the story has a particular meaning.

