
=== Primary

The literal story is easy to tell. Read as much as possible of it from the Word, and be careful not to add imaginary details. Tell the whole story but dwell particularly on the incidents in chapter 8. If the children are familiar with toy Noah's arks, try to take their minds away from the idea of the ark as a plaything by telling them what a wonderful thing it was that the Lord saved Noah in this way so that the whole human race would not die.

Do you know what a flood is? It is what happens when the water in a river or lake rises far above its usual level and flows over the land. Sometimes even now there are floods which sweep away houses and cattle and people and do all sorts of destructive things.

Our Bible story tells us about the worst flood ever known. You remember the story about Adam and Eve and the beautiful Garden of Eden in which they lived. The Lord gave them everything they needed to make them happy. And there was only one thing He told them not to do — that was to eat of the fruit of a certain tree, called the tree of knowledge of good and evil. When your mother tells you not to do a certain thing, are you ever tempted to go right away and do it? That is what happened to Adam and Eve, and they disobeyed the Lord.

And you know how bad things have a way of piling up. Sometimes when you have done wrong, you find yourself telling a lie so that your mother will not know you did it, and one lie is apt to lead to another, and each makes things worse. And finally you are found out and punished and you are very unhappy. Adam and Eve were sent away from the beautiful garden and had to work for their living. Their children did wrong things, too, and in time people became so bad that they had to be destroyed by a great flood — so great that the water even covered the tops of the mountains.

But one man and his family had remained good. His name was Noah. Just before the flood came, the Lord told Noah to build himself an ark. This was a sort of wooden houseboat big enough to hold him and his wife and his three sons and their wives and a great many animals and birds, and food enough for all of them.

The ark had rooms in it and was built with three stories. There was a door on the side and a window in the roof. When the flood came, the ark floated on the water and everything in it was saved.

It rained forty days and forty nights, and the water rose and rose. Finally the rain stopped and the flood began to go down. Let us read what Noah did then. [Read Genesis 8:6-12.]

What two birds did he send out to see if the waters had gone down?

What did the raven do?

What did the dove do the first time?

What did the dove bring back the second time?

What happened the third time?

What did this show Noah?

You see that the raven which Noah sent out just flew around and accomplished nothing, as we sometimes do when we are not trying to find the right way to behave; but the dove was able to help Noah.

Finally the Lord told Noah that he might go out from the ark to live again on the dry ground. The first thing Noah did when he went out was to build an altar to the Lord so that he could thank the Lord for saving him. Almost every church today has an altar in it, and it is put there for the same purpose for which Noah built his altar — to worship the Lord. Do you know where the altar is in your church?

And do you know what we in the New Church always have on the altar? It is a copy of the Bible, the Word of God, from which we learn all we know about the Lord and what He wants us to do.

