
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Center the discussion on the general meaning of the cherubim, illustrating it from other parts of the Word. Swedenborg's statement of the various methods of revelation (@AC 6000) is another good subject. Still another is the distinction between the prophet's message to the people of his time and its universal meaning.

---
The kingdom of Judah lasted only a little over a century after the death of Hezekiah. All the later kings were evil except one, Josiah. They were in constant difficulty, for Egypt was at war with Assyria and Judah lay between. But Babylon was their final conqueror. In Daniel 1:3-6 we learn that in the third year of Jehoiakim, when Nebuchadnezzar gained control of Judah, he carried to Babylon part of the treasures of the temple and also some of the most promising of the young princes, of whom Daniel was one. This is not mentioned in the books of Kings, but 2 Kings 24:10-16 does tell us that several years before the final destruction of Jerusalem the king of Babylon carried away captive Jehoiakim's son and successor Jehoiachin, together with his family and his officers and the mighty of the land, "and all the men of might, even seven thousand, and craftsmen and smiths a thousand, all that were strong and apt for war." Ezekiel was probably one of those removed at this time, and our chapter shows us that he was settled with a group of captives in Chaldea by the river Chebar.

He was a priest, the son of Buzi. He tells us himself that his first vision came to him in the fifth year of Jehoiachin's captivity. This was several years before the destruction of Jerusalem, and chapters 1 to 24 of Ezekiel are concerned with prophecies of this event. The king of Judah during this period was Zedekiah, an uncle of Jehoiachin, who had been set up as a puppet ruler by Nebuchadnezzar, but rebelled and brought about the final catastrophe. After the destruction of Jerusalem, when all the rest of the people except the "poorest" were also carried away, Ezekiel continued to prophesy for at least fourteen more years, about twenty years in all. He is called "the prophet of the captivity."

The book of Ezekiel is full of strange visions which have puzzled Bible commentators throughout the history of the Church. They have a striking similarity to the visions of John in the book of Revelation, and like those visions have been subject to all sorts of interpretations and applications. The law of correspondences revealed through Swedenborg is the only key which can unlock the mysteries of these two books and lead to a consistent and reasonable interpretation. In the first twenty-four chapters Ezekiel is told to do strange things and is told that these are symbolic of the character of Judah and of what will happen to Jerusalem and its people; the complete destruction and desolation of Jerusalem is foretold. Then follow eight chapters of judgment upon various foreign nations, similar to chapters 46 to 50 of Jeremiah. Chapters 43 to 48 foretell the restoration, ending with a long, detailed vision of the Holy City and the temple. So again in Ezekiel the prophet's mission is exemplified — judgment, warning for the evil, and promise of salvation for the good.

Swedenborg tells us (@AE 619[3]) that the reason why Ezekiel and John were given such searching visions of the inner conditions of men and of the Lord's dealings with them through the medium of the spiritual world was that "the prophets Ezekiel and John represent the doctrine of truth and the Word, therefore the exploration was made by them." The visions of Isaiah and Jeremiah at the time of their call to the Lord's mission (Isaiah 6 and Jeremiah 1) are simple and comprehensible in the letter as compared to this first vision of Ezekiel.

The key to the understanding of our chapter lies in recognizing that the living creatures were what elsewhere in the Word are called "cherubim." Indeed Ezekiel himself (chapter 10:20) tells us so. Cherubim generally picture divine providence protecting holy things against profanation. We recall the cherubim which were placed at the gate of the Garden of Eden "to keep the way of the tree of life," and the cherubim on the mercy seat above the ark. Cherubim are not a race of created heavenly beings, as the Church in the past has imagined. They are always symbolic figures. So our first impulse to try to picture for ourselves just what Ezekiel saw is not very productive, and instead we should give our attention to the symbolic details which he records. Swedenborg explains all these details in connection with John's vision of the four beasts (Revelation 4:6-8) in @AE 276-286. It is necessary to note that the Greek word translated "beasts" [KJV] means simply "living creatures" and would be better so translated on account of our modern connotation of the word "beast."

As Ezekiel was called to examine into and record the perverted state of the Church, it was altogether fitting that his call should be accompanied by a vision of the Lord's providence protecting holy things from such profanation. A brief outline of the vision and its meaning is all we can provide in these notes, but it may form a basis for thought.

First there is the general impression of the Lord's power and love, the whirlwind and fire. These assume to the evil a terrifying aspect since their object is to destroy evil. Then follow the specific representations of the operation of this power and love through divine providence, the four living creatures. The protecting power of divine providence has four aspects — the four faces. On the right side, the side of clear perception, are the face of a man, picturing divine wisdom, and the face of a lion, "the good of love and truth thence derived in their power" (@AC 6367). On the left side, the side of relative obscurity, are the face of an ox, "natural good," and the face of an eagle, "the rational" (@AC 3901[5]). Except by means of these things men cannot approach the holy things of the Lord's kingdom. The wings picture spiritual truths, which both lift and protect. The hands of a man under the wings picture the Lord's power to carry out the truth, and the feet are the ultimate expression of that truth in conduct. "For 'feet' in general signify the natural; a 'straight foot' the natural in respect to good; 'the sole of the foot,' the ultimate of the natural; 'burnished brass,' also signifies good in the natural. From this it is clear that good in the natural is signified by a 'calf,' and that in this is the ultimate good that guards and protects lest the heavens be approached except through the good of love and charity" (@AE 279[2]). A wheel signifies the power of advancing, and thus the understanding, by means of which we progress in the truth and in right living. The wheels appearing beside the living creatures, which went when the living creatures went and stayed when they stayed because the spirit of life was in them, picture the "Divine intelligence, or foresight." Hence they were full of eyes (@AC 8215). And above all appeared the Lord upon His throne.

It is significant that Ezekiel was given this vision before he was allowed to view the depths to which the human race had fallen. John was given a similar vision before he was permitted to see the devastation of the earth. These general truths apply to our regeneration. We are never tempted beyond our power to resist [1 Corinthians 10:13]. Our eyes are not opened to see the deep evils within us before we have had a vision of the Lord's protecting and saving power. We cannot fight against our temptations if we doubt the omniscience and omnipotence of divine providence. We may not be able to see why things happen to us and to others, but we are sure that they do not happen without the Lord's knowledge and permission, and that behind the permission are perfect love and perfect wisdom.

