
=== Intermediate

The lesson for this class is the general meaning in the spiritual sense of the captivity of Judah and of the first vision of Ezekiel in relation to that meaning. As many of the details of the vision can be explained as you have time for. The attention of the class should be called to the mention of cherubim in other places in the Word.

Babylon, we may recall, represents the "love of dominion from the love of self." In simple language this means the feeling that everybody should do what we want. This feeling is natural to us in the beginning, for we are born selfish; but unless we are badly spoiled by our parents, we grow up knowing that it is wrong, and we learn to control it and even, with the Lord's help, acquire the new will of love to the Lord and the neighbor, which is regeneration. We have seen that the story of the Hebrew nation, as recorded in the Word, pictures this gradual change which is completed in the happy and peaceful reign of Solomon. But then we saw that even a regenerate man can still be tempted and that his temptation is to take into his mind all sorts of ideas which are foreign to his true purpose of serving the Lord. His very success "goes to his head." False ideas gradually get control of his mind: Assyria has carried Israel away into captivity. Then little by little the sense of his own importance steals away the goodness which the Lord has put into his heart: Babylon has carried away Judah. We should notice that Assyria was always attacking with armies, but Babylon stole in by pretending friendship.

The good king Hezekiah postponed the fall of Judah, just as we have times when we see our faults and reform for a time. But Hezekiah's son Manasseh undid all his father's good work. There was only one more good king in Judah — Josiah — and after he was killed in battle, things grew rapidly worse. Under king Jehoiakim Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, gained sufficient control to carry off to Babylon part of the treasures of the temple and several of the young princes, among whom was Daniel. Then after Jehoiakim died, Nebuchadnezzar came in again and carried off his son Jehoiachin, who had reigned only three months, with all his family and his officers and some eight thousand of the most able men of Judah. Nebuchadnezzar set up Jehoiachin's uncle Zedekiah as a sort of puppet ruler, but when he rebelled, Nebuchadnezzar put an end to the kingdom, destroyed Jerusalem and the temple, and carried off all the rest of the people except the poorest, who were left to care for the fields and vineyards.

This history is the background of the life and work of the prophet Ezekiel. He was a priest, and was probably carried away among those who were taken with Jehoiachin. He tells us himself (Ezekiel 1:1-3) that he was placed in the land of Chaldea by the river Chebar, and that he received his call to be a prophet in the fifth year of Jehoiachin's captivity. The first twenty-four chapters of the book are visions of the evil state of the people and prophecies of the destruction of Jerusalem. Then Jerusalem was destroyed and after that for some fourteen years more Ezekiel was given visions of the doom which would fall eventually on the enemies of Judah, and then visions of the restoration to their own land of those who were faithful, ending with a long and detailed vision (chapters 40-48) of the new temple which would be built. For the people of Judah in captivity, these visions and promises had an encouraging literal meaning, but we know that they really picture the building of a new Church in the world and also the rebuilding of a heavenly character in us which is possible as long as we are here in this world, if we will only recognize our faults and try with the Lord's help to change. We should note that the visions of the Apostle John which are recorded in the book of Revelation are strikingly similar to some of Ezekiel's visions.

Our chapter is about Ezekiel's first vision. It was a strange one and, try as we may, we cannot picture in our own minds just what he saw. We know that even our own dreams — which are not visions - have a shifting quality that is hard to put into form afterward. In chapter 10, where Ezekiel tells of seeing the same living creatures again, he calls them "cherubim." We remember that "cherubim, and a flaming sword" were placed at the entrance to the Garden of Eden after Adam and Eve were driven out, "to keep the way of the tree of life" (Genesis 3:24). And we remember the two golden figures of cherubim that were placed on the mercy seat of the ark of the covenant, and that the Lord promised to speak to the people from between the cherubim.

The cherubim are symbolic figures and they usually picture divine providence*, especially as it works to protect goodness. You know that there is a difference between evil and sin. All selfish desires are evils and they have bad consequences. The Lord wants us to get rid of them. But we cannot overcome them all at once. If we should see them all, we should be so discouraged we should give up trying. So the Lord shows them to us one by one as He sees we are ready to fight them, and He hides from us the things we would not try to fight. For sin is doing things that we know to be wrong, and it is sin that really hurts our souls.
[*Cf., however, @AR 239. -Editor]

In Ezekiel's vision the cherubim had wings. Wings picture truth about heavenly things, which has the power to lift our thoughts above the world. The creatures had the hands of a man under their wings, and hands represent the power to accomplish. They had "straight" feet which sparkled like burnished brass. The feet, which walk on the ground, stand for our daily lives, and brass is the metal which pictures goodness in outward things. They had four faces. The face is the part of us which expresses our character; so the four faces of the cherubim express the Lord's character as we see it in the action of divine providence: the face of a man is intelligence; the face of a lion is the power of divine truth; the face of an ox is goodness in natural things; the face of an eagle is rationality, which sees from a great height. Then there are the wheels. Wheels are things which enable us to move rapidly from place to place and especially to transport things easily. In the vision they picture divine foresight, and that is why they were "full of eyes." And the fact that all this brightness and activity and sound came from the Lord was shown Ezekiel by the vision of the throne and the figure of the Lord upon it.

We may wish we could have such a vision; but, you know, we actually do have it with our minds whenever we remember that, no matter where we are or what state we are in, the Lord is always at hand, seeing us just as we are, and providing for us just the experiences which are most likely to check our wrongdoing and lead us to goodness.

