
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Do more in this class with the historical position of the four Major Prophets and with the history of the fall of Judah. Discuss in general the office of prophet and what it meant to the people to have a prophet given to them in their captivity. Be familiar with the methods of revelation, as given in @AC 6000, as the children may ask how the Lord spoke to the prophets. Then take up the literal details of Ezekiel's first vision, and the meaning and purpose of the vision as a whole.

---
You remember that when Hezekiah showed the messengers from Babylon all his treasures, Isaiah said to him, "Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day, shall be carried into Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the Lord." (2 Kings 20:17) This prophecy was fulfilled about a hundred years later. Of the seven kings of Judah who followed Hezekiah only one, Josiah, was good. Finally Babylon gained complete control of the kingdom. Under Jehoiakim King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon began to carry away to Babylon, in addition to the treasures, some of the most promising of the young men of Judah. Among these was Daniel (Daniel 1:1-6). After Jehoiakim died, his son Jehoiachin was himself carried to Babylon, together with all his family and "his officers, and the mighty of the land ... and all the men of might, even seven thousand, and craftsmen and smiths a thousand, all that were strong and apt for war" (2 Kings 24:15-16). The king of Babylon set up an uncle of Jehoiachin to rule in Judah, but when he also rebelled, Nebuchadnezzar destroyed Jerusalem and the temple and carried away to Babylon all but the poorest of the people.

As we learn from the beginning of our chapter for today, Ezekiel was a priest and was among those carried away to Babylon, and in the fifth year after king Jehoiachin was brought there Ezekiel was called by the Lord to prophesy to the captives. He and Daniel, together with Isaiah and Jeremiah, are called the Major Prophets because their prophecies, as we find them in the Bible, are long books in comparison with the short books of the twelve Minor Prophets. All the prophets whose messages are recorded in the Word were inspired by the Lord. They all heard the voice of the Lord speaking to them, and they all had visions as well. Most of us have strange dreams sometimes, and when we try to describe them afterward, other people find them very hard to picture. Our dreams usually are the result of conditions in our own minds and bodies and may have no special meaning, but the visions and dreams of the prophets, which seem equally strange to us, were given them by the Lord and did have a meaning. The prophets themselves seldom knew what this meaning was any more than did the people to whom they spoke, but they did know that they were to write them down, using just the words that were put into their minds to describe them. We know now that the inner meaning of these visions can be read, just as the meaning of the parables and all the other stories of the Word can, for they are written in the same language, the language of the correspondence of the things of nature to the things of the spirit which produce them. So the visions and messages which were recorded in the Word through the prophets are for our instruction and enlightenment, and when you are older, you will find what a wonderful study they are.

Read carefully our chapter for today.

What were the four faces of the living creatures?

How many wings did they have?

What were their feet like?

What did they have under their wings?

What did Ezekiel see beside them on the earth?

What were the wheels like?

How was their motion governed?

What did the wings sound like when they moved?

What did Ezekiel see above the living creatures?

And what was above the firmament?

Whom did he finally know this man on the throne to be?

This vision taught Ezekiel that the Lord was not far away but was always near and at work in the affairs of men. In the tenth chapter of this same book, when Ezekiel was carried in the spirit to Jerusalem, he saw the same vision again there. This time he called the living creatures "the cherubim." Do you remember that on the cover or mercy seat of the ark Moses was commanded to place two golden cherubim and that the Lord promised to speak to the Israelites "from between the cherubim"? Now read Genesis 3:24.

What was the work of the cherubim there?

We may see that this vision which Ezekiel saw describes something which is not a mere temporary appearance, for many years later the Apostle John saw the same thing. Read Revelation 4. Here the cherubim are called "beasts" [KJV], which is unfortunate because we use the word beast in such a different way. Actually the Greek word translated "beast" means simply "living creature."

From all this we can see that the cherubim are symbolic figures picturing the power of the Lord to see and provide for all things. The Lord knows us through and through. Wherever we are and whatever we are doing, He is there taking care of us as well as we will let Him. The Psalmist says: "If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there." (Psalm 139:8)

The captives in Babylon needed reassurance that even in their affliction and exile, their God was with them. Even though most of the people of Judah had turned from the Lord to idolatry, there were some good people left, and after some thirty-five chapters of reproof and denunciation of the wicked, Ezekiel is given a message of hope for the good, promising them that they would be restored to their own land and allowed to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem. This prophecy was literally fulfilled, but its importance for us is in the fact that its real meaning concerns the heavenly character which the Lord is able to rebuild in us after we have done wrong, if only we will listen to Him and try to obey Him.

