
=== Notes for Parents

Did you ever wonder what cherubim are? In the first place the "-im" is just the plural ending in the Hebrew; so cherubim are cherubs. They are mentioned a number of times in the Bible. In the wonderful symbolic story of the Garden of Eden, for example, after Adam and Eve disobeyed and were driven out of the garden, we read that the Lord placed cherubim at the entrance with a flaming sword "to keep the way of the tree of life." And in our lesson on the ark of the covenant we learned that by command they placed two golden figures of cherubim on the mercy seat on top of the ark, and that the Lord promised to speak to the people from "between the cherubim." Today we have a lesson which describes cherubim, and they may not seem to be as we have pictured them.

Ezekiel the prophet was one of the priests of Judah. He was taken captive with several thousand of his countrymen when Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, took full control of the kingdom of Judah. He was carried into Chaldea and lived there by the river Chebar, and after five years the Lord called him to be a prophet. Over a period of about twenty years he was given visions and prophecies to tell to the captive people. Our chapter describes his first vision.

The word cherubim is not used in this chapter, but a little later (chapter 10) Ezekiel had another vision of the same living creatures and there he called them cherubim. So we know that the cherubim were these strange creatures of vision, with four faces and wings, with hands under their wings, and feet that shone like polished brass, and great wheels beside them full of eyes. No material person or animal could be like these; so we know that they were not actual beings but were symbolic representations of something the Lord wanted Ezekiel and wants us to know about. What they represent is divine providence which is always over us, seeing all that we do and are and watching and guarding every least thing in the world so that goodness will be protected, and so that from moment to moment each one of us may be free to think and to choose for himself what he wants to be. The vision was like a marvelous moving picture acted out before the eyes of Ezekiel's spirit to show him how close the all-wise Lord was to him all the time. You can imagine that after Ezekiel had once seen this, he would not hesitate to speak boldly the words which the Lord put into his mouth.

