
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Be sure the children know what a prophet is and the names of the four Major Prophets. Sketch briefly the story of the fall of Judah and Ezekiel's history so far as it is known. Then read them this first vision of his and tell them in general what the Lord was showing him by means of it.

---
When the king of Babylon conquered the kingdom of Judah, he made most of the people of Judah leave their homes and go to live in Babylon. The people did not want to go, and they were very unhappy. But they had to learn that their country was a gift to them from the Lord and that if they wanted to keep it, they must love Him and do what He taught them was right. The Lord had sent prophets to warn them over and over again, but they would not listen. Now they had to learn the hard way.

But the Lord had not deserted them. He does the best He can for us always. So He gave them a new prophet to tell them that if they tried to do better, they would someday be allowed to go home again. This prophet's name was Ezekiel. He was one of their own priests, who had been carried away to Babylon with them.

After they had lived in Babylon for five years, the Lord began to give Ezekiel messages for them, and He gave him several wonderful visions.

A prophet in the Bible is one who speaks for the Lord.

Four of the prophets were called Major Prophets, because of the length of their books.

Isaiah and Jeremiah prophesied in Judah.

Ezekiel and Daniel prophesied in Babylon after the people were taken captive.

Do you have dreams? Sometimes we try to tell people afterward what we have dreamed, and we find it hard to make them understand just what we have seen. A vision is like a dream, only it is about something that is really happening or going to happen.

What strange vision did Ezekiel see?

Later, in chapter 10, he calls these same living creatures cherubim. You remember the figures of cherubim on the cover of the ark. What four faces did the living creatures have?

What went beside them on the earth?

What else can you tell about them?

Now read verses 22 to 28.

What did Ezekiel see above the living creatures?

From the last verse we see that they knew that the man on the throne was the Lord.

Long afterward the Apostle John had a similar vision, which is recorded in the fourth chapter of the book of Revelation.

Ezekiel's visions gave the good people among the captives hope that sometime they would be able to return to their homes.

It showed Ezekiel that the Lord was near His people taking care of them.

