
=== Senior

With this class more may be done with the nature of vision and prophecy and the methods of revelation. Stress the fact that only a knowledge of correspondence really "opens" the Prophets. Point out the timeless and universal character of Ezekiel's vision and discuss the details in relation to the general meaning.

---
The four Major Prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel, prophesied to the people of Judah over a period of about two hundred years, from a little over a century before the kingdom of Judah fell until well along in the period of the captivity. Isaiah, as we have seen, told Hezekiah that the kingdom was doomed, although its fall was delayed by Hezekiah's reforms and by those of one of the later kings, Josiah. The book of Jeremiah is full of condemnation and warning, and he lived to see Jerusalem and the temple destroyed.

The books of Ezekiel and Daniel are of a different character.

The blow had fallen. The people had been carried away to Babylon, and warning was no longer in order. But on the other hand some of the people at least were more ready to listen when told of their evils. Jeremiah had been hated and bitterly persecuted for his prophecies. Ezekiel and Daniel were honored. It was a comfort to the people to feel that even in captivity in a foreign land they still had authentic prophets.

Ezekiel was apparently among those carried away with king Jehoiachin in the first major captivity. Judah continued as a puppet state for another eleven years before Jerusalem and the temple were finally destroyed. So the first twenty-four chapters of Ezekiel were largely concerned with that coming destruction, but they were written, as he tells us himself (Ezekiel 1:1-3), from captivity, and to the captives who had already lost their country. Later Ezekiel was given a message for them which promised the return of the faithful and the rebuilding of the temple.

But we know that all the utterances of the prophets which were recorded in the Word were only in a very limited sense messages to the people of that day. Their real import is spiritual, and directed to men and women of all nations and times. Throughout the history of the Christian Church many devout students of the Bible have felt that the prophecies must have some hidden meaning. Their very strangeness shows that they were not meant to be taken literally, and their power is felt even in those passages which are least understandable in the letter. Without a knowledge of the law of correspondence, however, attempts at interpretation were fanciful and aroused among scholars an antipathy to what they called "allegorizing on Scripture" which makes it almost impossible today to get even a hearing among them for the truths concerning the spiritual sense revealed in the Second Coming.

But the law of correspondence makes it possible to read the prophets with ever-increasing understanding and reward. They speak, in the internal sense, to the human mind and heart, exposing and condemning evil, explaining the working of the Lord in the individual and in the world, and showing us the way to happiness and peace.

Take our chapter for today as an example. It was Ezekiel's first vision, and he was impelled by the spirit to describe it in detail, although it presented a strange picture. The first thing which helps us to understand it is to note the fact that the "living creatures" when seen again by Ezekiel (chapter 10) are called "cherubim" and that the "beasts" [KJV] seen by the Apostle John long afterward (Revelation 4) were the same symbolic figures. (The Greek word translated "beasts" means simply "living creatures.") Swedenborg's explanation that the cherubim picture divine providence in one of its special functions — that of protecting the highest or celestial good from profanation — is borne out by the other mentions of cherubim in the Word, such as the cherubim placed at the entrance of the Garden of Eden after the fall "to keep the way of the tree of life," and the two golden figures of cherubim which were by command placed on the mercy seat of the ark.

When we think of this vision of Ezekiel as a representation of the marvelous ever-present activity of divine providence in the affairs of men, all the details fall into order. How hard it is for us to understand divine providence! It comes to us as "a whirlwind out of the north, a great cloud," inscrutable at first but gradually revealing the divine love that is within it, the fire and brightness. We see that it applies to every phase of our lives — the four faces. It comes with spiritual truths which like wings are capable of lifting us above the plane of worldly and natural thinking. Yet it enters into the details of our daily living — its feet are on the ground. The hands under the wings are the power of spiritual truth for accomplishment in our lives. Compare verse 14 with Matthew 24:27. The wheels — the symbols of the intelligence which facilitates action and reaction — are "full of eyes round about"; the Lord sees and knows everything we are and have been and the results of our choices to eternity. It is not until near the end of the vision that the noise of the wings is mentioned. In the Bible the voice of the Lord is twice said to be like the sound of many waters (Ezekiel 43:2, Revelation 1:15), and we know that this means divine truth speaking to our minds. At first it is a confused noise, but gradually what it is saying becomes clear to us. Ezekiel becomes conscious of an actual voice and of the appearance of a throne above the cherubim and "the appearance of a man above upon it" surrounded by color and brightness and finally by the rainbow, which is "the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord." Then the Lord speaks to Ezekiel giving him the first message he is to carry to the people. Ezekiel, like the many devout people who have read the chapter since, did not have to understand the meaning of the details of this vision in order to feel certain of its source and to recognize its impelling power. He knew that he was being given a glimpse of the supernatural forces at work in the affairs of men, and that when the Lord spoke to him, he must obey. Today men do not need to see supernatural visions. The Word is finished and is given to us to study, and its meaning has been opened. It is with our rational minds that we now recognize the working of divine providence in the world and look to the Lord for instruction and guidance from day to day.

