
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Try to give the Younger Teens a sense of the story of Joseph as a whole and of its general meaning. Use the chapter for today to emphasize the importance of having knowledge of what is right in addition to good intentions, and Joseph's death as a preparation for the change we shall find in the picture with the opening of the book of Exodus.

---
In Egypt Joseph gradually proved his wisdom and rose to power.

Then his brothers had to come to him for help and bow before him, and he was able to save his whole family and keep them from dying of hunger in the time of famine. The Lord preserves the spiritual faculties in us until we are fully grown up and ready to recognize that we cannot live without them.

Our chapter for today comes near the end of the period of our natural development. Jacob is about to die. The story of Joseph's bringing his sons to his father to bless and of Jacob's giving the greater blessing to the younger son reminds us of the earlier story of Isaac's blessing Jacob and Esau. Ephraim and Manasseh picture much the same thing as Jacob and Esau — truth and good — but on a plane further advanced in the working out of the heavenly life. Truth still has to be put first, although good is really primary. That is, although everything we do proceeds from some desire, we have to learn what to do before we can carry out our desire. In spiritual things we have to learn from the Lord what is right and make ourselves do it before we come to love it. In this story the placing of truth first is conscious and intentional (verse 19), as we now have a more mature understanding of what is necessary, whereas in the Isaac stage of our life we reacted blindly.

Jacob gives Ephraim and Manasseh an equal place with his own sons, thus giving Joseph's family a double portion in the inheritance. Our spiritual faculties have such a double portion when we recognize our debt to the Lord. Note the last verse in chapter 48. The additional portion here given to Joseph is not described, but we find out elsewhere what it was. Read Genesis 33:18-20, Joshua 24:32, and John 4:5.

Jacob died at the age of one hundred and forty-seven, and his body was embalmed. Mr. Worcester in The Sower tells us that the Egyptian practice of embalming did not mean that they thought the body was to be used again, for there are evidences in their paintings that they knew that the soul left the body at death and continued in a spiritual body. It probably meant that the physical body had taken on the form of the soul, and with those who had been good they wanted to indicate that this form would be preserved. They did not even bury the evil. Whether the ancient Egyptians really knew this or not, it is the meaning of the embalming of Jacob and Joseph. Jacob's body was taken back to Hebron and buried in the cave of Machpelah with Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, and Leah. All that we accomplish on the plane of natural goodness is stored up at once as part of our permanent character.

Joseph makes his family give him the same promise that he had given his father, but when he dies, it is not immediately fulfilled. His body is embalmed and put in a coffin in Egypt. As we go further in our worldly development, our spiritual faculties, though preserved for us by the Lord, are apt again to become dormant for a time, laid away in the memory. All through the period of slavery in Egypt, Joseph's body was still there embalmed and in a coffin, waiting for the promised release and return to the Holy Land.

