
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Draw as much as possible of the story of Joseph from the children's memories. Make the connection with today's lesson through Isaac's blessing of Jacob - it may be well to read aloud some verses from Genesis 27:1-29. This and Genesis 45:4-11 offer a good opportunity to explain how the Lord can make good use of even our wrong actions so that we ourselves learn by experience and those we intended to injure are benefited. Call attention to the reason why Ephraim and Manasseh are later named with the sons of Jacob as heads of tribes in place of Joseph.

---
In Egypt the Lord took care of Joseph because Joseph was good and trusted Him and obeyed Him always. He did well in every work that was given him and rose to become a great man, ruler of all Egypt, second only to the king.

Joseph did not return evil for evil. You know the Lord never lets misfortunes come to us without a good reason. When the great famine came and Jacob sent his sons down to Egypt to buy food, the brothers were frightened when they discovered that the great ruler of Egypt was their own brother Joseph, whom they had wronged. But Joseph reassured them and forgave them. Read Genesis 45:4-11. So Jacob and all his family came down to Egypt, and Pharaoh the king, because he loved Joseph, gave them for their home the rich land of Goshen in the Nile delta.

In the Bible story the parental blessing is very important, for it was always inspired by the Lord and was sure to be fulfilled. Jacob himself had deceived his father Isaac into giving him the blessing which he would naturally have given to Esau, his firstborn. But this, too, was something which was permitted to happen for a good reason. Now Jacob does intentionally what his father was tricked into doing. The inner reason is the same in both cases, and you will understand it when you are older. You must remember that everything in the Word of God has a deep meaning and lesson within it.

What two sons were born to Joseph in Egypt?

Which was the older?

Why did Joseph bring them to his father?

How did he try to arrange things so that his blind father would know which was the elder?

What did Jacob do?

What did he say when Joseph tried to move his hands?

What special position did he give to Joseph's sons? (verse 5)

This is why we shall find, as we go on in the Bible story, that among the tribes of the children of Israel there was no tribe called Joseph, [but see Revelation 7:8] but instead there were two tribes called Ephraim and Manasseh. What the special "portion" was which Jacob added to Joseph's inheritance you may learn by reading Genesis 33:18-20 and John 4:5.

Jacob died in Egypt. We are told that his body was embalmed.

The Egyptians had a wonderful way of preserving the body by the use of spices and salt and by wrapping it very carefully in narrow strips of cloth. This was called embalming. Some of the bodies so treated have been found in the Egyptian tombs perfectly preserved after several thousand years. They are called mummies. The secret of this process has been lost. It took about forty days, and there was a period of thirty more days of mourning before they started for the burial place. So it is said that they mourned for Jacob seventy days. Jacob's sons took his body back to the Holy Land and placed it in the cave of Machpelah, where Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, and Leah were already buried.

Then they came back and settled down in Egypt.

When Joseph was about to die, what promise did he ask his family to make? What did they do with Joseph's body temporarily?

You will see how they fulfilled their promise if you will read Joshua 24:32. Joseph's body was not placed in the cave of Machpelah but buried in the portion which had come to him by special gift from his father.

