
=== Senior

The lesson for the Seniors may be centered on the meaning of Manasseh and Ephraim, sons of Joseph, as compared with Esau and Jacob, sons of Isaac. Show them how in our lives similar states recur again and again, but always on a different level, higher or lower according to whether we are progressing spiritually or not.

When we, at the beginning of our adult life, determine to obey the Lord instead of the dictates of worldliness — which is the beginning of the church in each of us — the real struggle within us begins. All our selfish thoughts and habits rise up to resist this new spiritual impulse. But the Lord preserves our "Joseph" in obscurity and he develops to greatness and power without our knowledge. And in the time of famine — when real trouble comes — we rediscover him and submit ourselves to him in Egypt. That is, we begin in earnest the task of learning what the Lord would have us do in order to save our souls. Jacob and all his family go down into Egypt and put themselves under Joseph's protection and care.

Our story for today reminds us of the story of Esau and Jacob, in which Jacob, although not the firstborn of the twins, succeeded in taking from Esau both the birthright and the paternal blessing. Manasseh and Ephraim, like Esau and Jacob, represent good and truth, but the level has changed. Esau and Jacob, when they were born, represent good and truth on the unregenerate natural plane, a good disposition and a lively mind, perhaps — but we have now advanced, through Jacob's sojourn in Haran and return to Bethel and through the rise of Joseph to power, to the point where we are able to understand truth and experience goodness intellectually.

Swedenborg makes a distinction, however, between "the intellectual of the church" and what we popularly call "intellectual," as you will see from the quotation at the end of this lesson. Ephraim and Manasseh represent not our understanding of truth and our will to good unrelated to God, but the intellectual of the church and the good of the church in us. This is still on the natural plane — Ephraim and Manasseh were born in Egypt — but it comes from the higher plane of our souls where the Lord reaches us — their father was Joseph.

Manasseh, like Esau, was the firstborn son. The will is always first. We do nothing and think nothing except from an act of will. It takes a good impulse in our hearts to make us even begin to think about what we ought to do. But the impulse does not teach us what is right. We all know that our good intentions often seem to get lost, and we find ourselves doing harm when we meant to do good. We have to think and to learn from the Word what is right before our good intentions can result in right action. This is why Jacob was permitted to take precedence over Esau and Ephraim over Manasseh. Joseph, our internal perception, knows that the will comes first, but Jacob, our "practical" nature, recognizes that our understanding must for a time have first consideration.

Jacob presently dies in Egypt, but according to his last request, his sons take his body back to Canaan for burial in the cave of Machpelah, where Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, and Leah are already buried. Joseph lives for some time after his father but he, too, eventually dies in Egypt. He does not ask to be taken back immediately but foresees that in the end his people will all go back and makes them promise to take his body with them when they go. By the time of Joseph's death it has become evident that the Israelites have settled down for a long stay in Egypt.

This is a picture of a time in our lives when we think our spiritual health and comfort are assured without further effort on our part. Today we sometimes read and hear about "making the decision for Christ," and the assumption often is that one who has made this decision is "saved." Even in the New Church there is a tendency to imagine that once we have joined the church and established ourselves as respectable Christian people, we can stop studying the Word and the writings and just "let our conscience be our guide." The fallacy of this attitude is brought out in the first chapters of the book of Exodus. But no matter how long we remain in Egypt, we should remember that the body of Joseph, though embalmed and in a coffin, is there with us waiting to be restored to its proper place. The Lord preserves our former spiritual perceptions until we are ready to do something with them. And the Lord's providence is over our external lives, permitting such experiences to come to us as may awaken us again to a sense of need.

