
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The teacher of this class should read also the Older Teen notes, for many adults are prone to be over-impressed with modern worldly reasoning and with Bible studies based on disbelief in the divine inspiration of the Word. The quotation on innocence at the end of the lesson notes may also be used as discussion material.

---
In the writings sheep are variously interpreted as "celestial things," "those in charity and thence in faith," "the good of the will," or simply "those in good." Lambs picture especially the good of innocence, that inmost affection which must be in everyone who enters heaven, and which especially reigns with the angels in the celestial heavens (@AE 314; @HH 276-283), the tender, gentle, loving spirit which does not trust in self but looks to the Lord alone for guidance. It has no selfish wish, and because this is the inmost quality of the Lord's love, He is so often called a lamb (John 1:29, 36; Isaiah 53:7; Revelation 5:6, 7:17). Because we must never forget that this quality is an essential part of true worship of the Lord, the people in Old Testament days were commanded to offer every day "two lambs of the first year without spot," one in the morning and one in the evening (Numbers 28:3-4). We keep this statute in spirit when we pray morning and evening, "Deliver us from evil," desiring to be kept from thinking or acting in any way which would injure the Lord or the neighbor. It is this love that saves us from bondage to evil and falsity; it was for the same reason that lamb was the meat of the feast of the Passover (Exodus 12:3-10). Because infants are the external embodiment of this love, a lamb was the appropriate offering for the birth of a child (Leviticus 12:6).

Those who guard and cherish this innocent love are called shepherds. The Lord is primarily the Good Shepherd, as we learn in our chapter for today, and in many other places in the Word He is called a shepherd (Psalm 23; Isaiah 40:11). We likewise know that the beautiful parable in Luke 15:3-7 teaches of His loving care. He sent the apostles forth as lambs among wolves (Luke 10:3), but we are promised that a time shall come when the wolf shall dwell with the lamb (Isaiah 11:6; 65:25), picturing the time when our evil affections will be completely restrained by the power of the Lord's love in our hearts. When we read of the Lord asking Peter if he loved Him, telling him three times to feed His sheep and His lambs (John 21:15-17), it is a solemn reminder that if we do not cherish tender and gentle affections in ourselves and others, we do not truly love the Lord. When He came into the world, those to whom His advent was first made known were shepherds keeping their flocks by night around Bethlehem. This means that those who in the midst of ignorance and evil guard and cherish the good of innocence are prepared to recognize the Lord. Another interesting story in the Word is the coming of Joseph's brethren before Pharaoh, when they concealed their true calling of shepherds and said their trade had been keepers of cattle, because "every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians" (Genesis 56:34). This pictures the fact that the natural mind can recognize value in affections for useful work — represented by cattle — but has no use for the inner qualities of the heart. Throughout the Word the Lord's providence is pictured as feeding and cherishing the inmost affections for goodness, and as protecting and leading those in whom these affections are found.

In Jeremiah 23:1-4 we read a condemnation of false pastors or shepherds who neglect their duty and destroy and scatter the Lord's sheep, and we have there the promise of the Lord's coming to gather the sheep again into their folds. In our chapter for today the Lord presents Himself as the fulfillment of this prophecy. We have seen that He is the lamb, in that His inmost love is innocence. Now we find that He is also the Good Shepherd and the door of the sheepfold. He is the Good Shepherd in that He cares for and feeds the things that are His own in us; and He is the door in that He is the truth by which alone we can find the way into His fold, which is heaven. Those who seek to enter heaven without recognizing the Lord are thieves and robbers, claiming as their own what belongs solely to the Lord. His sheep hear His voice; those whose hearts are innocent recognize the Lord as God and obey Him. And "he calleth his own sheep by name"; i.e., He recognizes the true quality of each one. "'To call the sheep by name' means to teach and to lead everyone who is in the good of charity according to the state of his love and wisdom." (@DP 230) "By me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture." This means to draw close to the Lord in our hearts and to follow Him in our outward life; it reminds us of the familiar benediction: "The Lord keep our going out and our coming in from this time forth, and even forevermore." Those who would be true shepherds are, like the Lord, ready to give their life for the sheep, to sacrifice selfish desires when they threaten heavenly innocence. But the hireling, he who does good only for what he can get out of it, deserts the sheep in time of danger, cares for them only while it is obviously to his advantage to do so. The "other sheep ... which are not of this fold" refer to those whose minds must be satisfied, who are pictured in the advent stories by the Wise Men from the East who saw the star (@AC 3969). This whole chapter, like the twenty-third Psalm, is one of the most universally known and loved in the Word, because, whether we understand it or not, it appeals to the innocent states which the Lord has stored up in everyone from infancy, and which are the first to recognize Him.

The Pharisees were not of the Lord's sheep. They were evil shepherds and hirelings. When they questioned Him, it was not for the sake of learning the truth, but to draw from Him statements which they could condemn. So He often answered them in such a way as to point out their insincerity and if possible to make them judge their own conduct and motives. In one conversation He asked them to study and judge the works which He had done, and challenged them to find fault with His works. But He also declared plainly His oneness with the Father. Although this is exactly what they had asked Him to say, they immediately accused Him of blasphemy "because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God." People today who do not wish to accept the Lord's teachings as divine truth pretend to investigate His claim, but like the Pharisees they have their minds made up to start with, and as soon as they come upon a direct statement of His deity they say, "Impossible; no man could make such a claim; this must be a fiction of the apostles." They refuse, as the Pharisees did, to consider His works as evidence of the source of His power. They are not of His sheep; that is, they do not have in their hearts the humility and the innocent and trustful affection which open the mind to His voice. Here again we have the lesson that belief is primarily of the will. "My sheep hear my voice." Those who really desire the Lord's guidance can find ample proof of His claim, but those who wish to guide themselves cannot be convinced by any type of proof.

