
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The meaning of innocence and charity should be impressed upon this class through the correspondence of lambs and sheep. It is at this age that young people often develop the most obvious and disagreeable form of self-assurance, and the teacher can help the parents by leading the class to see that this trait is not admirable but is a "wolf" come to steal away their good qualities.

---
Did you ever stop to think how many familiar passages in the Bible involve sheep and shepherds? We might begin with the story of Cain and Abel, in which Abel was a keeper of sheep and his offering of the firstlings of his flock was accepted by the Lord. Then in the story of Abraham's trying to sacrifice Isaac, the Lord provided a ram as a substitute. When Jacob fled from Esau and came to the well at Haran, he fell in love with Rachel when he saw her coming with her father's sheep to the well. The meat commanded for the Passover feast was lamb, and many of the sacrifices specified in the laws at Sinai used sheep and lambs. When Samuel was sent to anoint David, David was called from tending his father's sheep. And the twenty-third Psalm, which next to the Lord's Prayer is probably the best-known passage in the Bible, begins: "The Lord is my shepherd." In the New Testament we think at once of the shepherds at Bethlehem watching over their flocks by night, to whom the angels announced the Lord's birth. Then there is the parable of the lost sheep; the instance of the Lord's telling Peter, "Feed my sheep ... feed my lambs"; and the statement of John the Baptist when he saw the Lord coming: "Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world." (John 1:29) Finally, in the book of Revelation the Lord is many times called "the Lamb."

But why should the Lord be called the lamb and also the shepherd? It is because the quality which sheep and lambs represent is the inmost quality of the Lord and also the quality which He is always seeking to develop and preserve in each one of us, His children. It is the quality of charity or genuine goodness — represented by sheep — which develops out of the quality of innocence — represented by lambs. The word innocence literally means "not harming," but this is a result of the quality called innocence rather than the quality itself. Swedenborg tells us that innocence and also charity are inmostly the acknowledgment that we are not either good or wise in ourselves, but that all goodness and wisdom are in and from the Lord. This is the quality which makes a person always ready to hear and obey the voice of the Lord and always careful to do nothing which may tend to harm another. If we have this quality we follow the Lord just as sheep in the eastern countries follow their shepherd. And if we do this, the Lord can watch over us and keep our souls safe from selfish and cruel impulses which, like wolves, are lurking in all of us ready to spring out when we are "off our guard."

A sheepfold is a picture of heaven, and the Lord Jesus Christ is its only door. He alone is a safe guide, because He alone loves us with pure, unselfish love which is divine love. All other guides we may choose to follow are either thieves and robbers, trying to steal us away from the Lord and heaven, or to some extent at least "hirelings," claiming that they are serving goodness and truth but really doing so for the sake of their own reputation and comfort, and not to be trusted if their own interests are threatened.

But there are many people in the world who have the quality of innocence — who sincerely want to be good — who, for one reason or another, have never come to recognize Jesus Christ as the true shepherd. These are the "other sheep" the Lord speaks of in John 10:16. Swedenborg tells us that such people can be instructed in the truth after they come into the other world, because their hearts and minds are open. (We should know that in this verse 16 in the King James Version there is an error in translation. The word correctly translated "fold" in the first part of the verse is not the same word used in the last part, which should be translated "there shall be one flock, one shepherd," as in several more recent translations.) There are many different societies in heaven — many folds — but all are the Lord's sheep, recognizing Him alone as their shepherd.

In the last part of John 10 the difference between those who are the Lord's sheep and those who are not is made clear by the Lord's conversation in the temple. The people asked Him about Himself not because they wanted to learn the truth but that they might find an excuse to condemn Him. They thought themselves wise and considered themselves good; they were not innocent. The Lord told them plainly, "Ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep." Their pride in their own wisdom and goodness had closed their minds and hearts. Such people cannot be taught the truth either in this world or in the next.

