
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of sheep and their relation to the shepherd can be given in some detail to this class, as well as the meaning of the Lord's being the "door" of the sheep. This is a good lesson in which to impress on them the responsibility that goes with our freedom of choice.

---
What kind of meat was eaten at the Passover?

What was David doing when he was called by Samuel to be anointed as king?

Who were the first to be told of the Lord's birth at Bethlehem?

How does Psalm 23 begin?

In John Worcester's book "Animals of the Bible" we read:

"The shepherds of the East give a name to each member of their flocks, which the sheep soon learn, and to which they instantly respond. In the dry season many shepherds with their flocks meet at regular times around the wells. The flocks mingle at the troughs, drinking. But when all are satisfied, the shepherds move off in different directions, calling their sheep, which immediately follow, everyone its own shepherd, with scarcely the possibility of a mistake ... It is a peculiarity of sheep that while they are so easily led by one whom they know, they are driven with difficulty. They huddle together as if frightened and the more they are pressed, the more frightened they seem; but if the leaders start forward, the flock follows. Affection for their shepherd is stronger than their mutual love. Him they will follow away from their friends."

The sheepfold mentioned in John 10:1 refers to an enclosure into which the sheep could be led for safety. In those days there were evidently thieves and robbers to be guarded against as well as wolves and other wild animals.

Although the Lord spoke of natural things familiar to His hearers then, He was also talking about and to people in all times. His words are meant for us as well as for the people who listened to Him long ago. Let us learn some of this timeless language. For instance, we may hear someone call a baby a "little lamb." This is not just a casual expression. A human infant shows characteristics that correspond to those of a lamb, being innocent and trustful, looking to someone wiser for care and protection, and having no desire to harm anyone. Babies soon grow out of this state, however, and begin to want their own way and to try to get it even if it leads to injury of others. It is easy to see that these later traits are not good and beautiful like the first ones.

In our chapter the Lord is saying that innocence and trust are qualities He wants us to keep, and that if we will trust and follow Him, as the sheep trust and follow their shepherd, He will "feed us in green pastures," as the twenty-third Psalm says, and care for us and protect us always. It is only when we refuse to listen for His voice in order to follow Him that we wander away from safety and fall prey to the "wolves" of selfish and cruel feelings.

What does the Lord call Himself in John 10:9?

What does He call those who do not enter by the door?

What other kind of person is mentioned (John 10:12)?

What does this person do when a wolf appears?

If you think a little you will see what this means spiritually.

Thieves and robbers are those who try to steal sheep away from their true shepherd. This means that when anyone refuses to accept the Lord as God or to be obedient to Him, but tries some other way to enter a heavenly state, that person is acting like a robber, trying to steal from the Lord what is His and to lead the Lord's sheep astray. In the same way, a hireling means a person who claims to be working for the Lord, but who is really only interested in the good reputation of the Lord's followers. Whenever obeying the Lord threatens to be a disadvantage to such a person, he turns his back on his duty.

The last part of John 10 relates a conversation the Lord had with some of His enemies as he walked in the portico of Solomon, the colonnade on the east side of the temple.

What did they ask Him to tell them?

Why did the Lord say they wouldn't believe Him? What did He finally tell them (John 10:30)?

Then what did they try to do?

Why did they say they wanted to stone the Lord?

This shows us what the Lord meant by His sheep and by calling Himself the "door" of the sheepfold. You are old enough to understand that the Lord has given each one of us the freedom to choose whether to will to be good or bad. First He tells us what is good, and then He tells us that only those who are good can ever be happy. If we choose to believe Him and try to do what He tells us is right, we can become His sheep and follow Him in safety and peace. But if we choose not to believe Him, we shall never know what safety and peace are. We may be able to get some things we think we want, but we shall soon tire of them and want other things. Such people will never be satisfied or happy either in this world or the next.

