
=== Primary

The correspondence of sheep is one which can be explained and illustrated even at this age level. This lesson offers a good opportunity to introduce the children to the thought that Bible animals represent traits of character with which they are familiar. The main objective of the teacher, however, should be to put into their minds thoughts about the Lord's tender love and care, and of our need of trustful obedience to Him. Read the lesson from the Word with them, giving them time to think of what each verse may mean.

Most of you have seen sheep. If not you have probably seen pictures of them; you may even have seen a picture of the Good Shepherd and a lamb. Sheep are gentle, useful animals. Their flesh is good to eat and their wool is very useful to us in another way.

Every winter their woolly coat grows very thick to protect them from the cold; in the spring, when it is warm again, their owners can cut the wool off and sell it to make cloth for clothing and blankets to keep people warm.

In some countries today sheep are still cared for very much as they were in the Holy Land long ago when the Lord was on earth. The shepherds lead the sheep out into the pastures in the spring and live there with them, guarding them in the daytime from wild animals and at night leading them into enclosures or folds where they can be safe from attack while the shepherds sleep. The shepherds love their sheep and call them by name, and the sheep know the voice of their own shepherd and follow wherever he leads them.

Did you ever hear someone call a baby a "little lamb"? It is a natural phrase to use because babies are gentle and innocent and like little lambs. The Lord called His followers His sheep. Let us read what He said about them. [Read John 10:1-14.]

Sheep and lambs picture innocence, the quality which leads us to trust in the Lord instead of ourselves. Shepherds, who lead and guard sheep, picture those who care for and protect this quality. The shepherds at Bethlehem who were told of the Lord's birth had this same meaning, representing this beautiful and important quality.

The Lord knows and loves each one of us just as a shepherd knows and loves his sheep. We should listen when He speaks to us in His Word, and learn to love Him and follow Him willingly wherever He leads us. One especially lovely part of the Old Testament tells us this, too. Let us read together the twenty-third Psalm, which is sometimes called the "Shepherd Psalm." It is probably known by heart by more people than any other part of the Bible except the Lord's Prayer.

Do you remember a much earlier part of the Bible, the time when the Israelites were first commanded to celebrate the Passover?

What was the reason for the first Passover?

What did they eat for Passover?

There was a reason why the meat to be eaten was lamb. When we eat, the food eventually becomes part of us, doesn't it? The things we take into our minds and hearts become part of us, too. Everything which the Lord commanded the people to do in Bible days pictured something necessary for us, when understood spiritually, if our souls are to become healthy and strong. In the Word, different animals represent different traits of character. Everyone knows, for instance, what we mean when we call a person a pig. It may not be so obvious to us, though, that sheep and lambs picture innocence.

Who do you think are the Lord's sheep?

The Lord knows and loves each one of us as a shepherd does his sheep. We should listen to the Lord's voice as He speaks to us in His Word, and follow Him wherever He leads us. Then He can feed our souls and keep us safe. No one else can be trusted to lead us safely. This is part of what He means when He says, "I am the door." Think of this when you join in the closing benediction in Sunday school: "The Lord keep our going out and our coming in, from this time forth, and even for evermore."

