
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a good opportunity to point out to Seniors the shallowness of a worldly attitude, and also the weakness of the belief in Christ in many Christian groups today. They need clear sight and a firm hold on the Lord and His own teaching to safeguard them as they go out into the world.

---
There are two lessons in our chapter for today about which we should think very seriously. One centers about the Lord's statement that His sheep hear His voice and follow Him, and the other about His statement that He is the door.

Lambs and sheep represent innocence and the genuine goodness and charity which develop from innocence. The ground of both innocence and charity is humility. In our modern civilization this is not a popular virtue; in fact, it is scarcely considered to be a virtue at all. The emphasis in politics, in business, and in professional life is on self-confidence and self-assertion. When a modern man says people are like sheep, he is not meaning to compliment them. He means that they are easily led to do what "everybody" is doing, and much of our modern advertising is geared to this fact.

Our chapter for today gives us a very different thought about sheep. They are indeed prone to follow rather than to lead, and without the true shepherd they are easily stolen by thieves or destroyed by wolves. But they also recognize the voice of the true shepherd when they hear it, and follow Him willingly and trustfully. This means that those who have humility can be led to the heavenly fold. Here read the quotation at the end of the notes for Adults.

Those who believe in their own wisdom and goodness close their ears to the shepherd's voice and go their own way to destruction. The Lord told a group of the people, "Ye believe not, because ye are not my sheep." Confidence in self may achieve fame and fortune for a time in this world, but even here its achievements are not lasting. The great people of history have not been of this kind.

Once a person has the basis of innocence and goodness in the heart there is only one great need, and that is to find the true shepherd. Read Jeremiah 23:1-4. (Pastor is another word for shepherd.) The false shepherds of whom Jeremiah speaks are the thieves and robbers mentioned in our chapter, and also the "hirelings." A hireling is one who professes to be serving the Lord, but is really concerned chiefly with his own importance and welfare. The Lord alone is the true shepherd, and we hear His voice when we read the Word in an affirmative spirit, accepting what He says as true because He says it, and trying our best to understand and obey.

This is why the Lord calls Himself the door of the sheep. You will be surprised, as you go out into the world and mingle with Christian people not of your own church and attend their services and meetings, to find how much of their teaching they draw from what others have said about Christ and how little they attend to what Christ said about Himself. Remember always that as New Churchmen you believe that Jesus Christ is the door by which we must enter heaven, that He knew what He was saying and spoke the simple truth when He said (John 10:30), "I and my Father are one," and when later (John 14:9) He said to Philip, "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father."

We have to make up our minds as early as possible whether we are going to devote our lives to getting what we can of this world's goods and honors, closing our minds to the consideration of what lasts to eternity, or whether we are going to develop the deeper and higher possibilities which the Lord offers to each one of us. The people around us may not understand what we are trying to become. They may even think that we are foolish. But the Lord knows each of us through and through. He says: "I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep."

