
=== Adult

It is suggested that the outline of the assignment as a whole and its meaning be covered first as briefly as possible by the teacher, and the rest of the time given to any one phase which may appeal to the class. There are many very practical discussion points.

As we take up the story of the Lord's life in this course in each of the different Gospels in turn, we come to the same familiar incidents, as the feeding of the five thousand and the transfiguration. The story in general is the same; yet there are significant variations in context. Isn't this true of the way in which familiar passages from the Word come up in our own minds? The Lord brings them to us in their application to different states and different experiences as we go through life. So today we are thinking of these two familiar stories as a part of the preparation of the apostles for their great life work, and consequently as part of our preparation for true apostleship. The Lord says to all of us: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bear much fruit, and that your fruit should remain." We all want to be true apostles. We want our lives and words to bear testimony to our belief and to lead to lasting good. In this chapter from Luke we are given particular guidance for this task.

This sending out of the apostles was in the nature of a practical experience. They went out as directed and then came back and reported to their teacher. They were given certain powers, which we recognize as the ability the Lord gives each of us to overcome evils in himself and to help others to correct their weaknesses. They were given their mission: "to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick," as we are to "show forth not only with our lips, but in our lives" the power of the Lord to heal and bless. They were to take nothing of their own with them, but to trust to the Lord that they would be received and provided for. We need this instruction especially, because we are all so prone to self-confidence and self-assertion that our ego often looms up between the Lord's message and the people to whom we are trying to bring it. We are to tarry with those who welcome what we have to bring them; and when our efforts are not well received, we are to withdraw and not to let thoughts of the disappointing experience — the dust of the city — cling to us. You will find it interesting to go over the petitions of the Lord's Prayer which we say each morning as we begin our day, and see how fully they express our desire to follow these same instructions. Then at night, when we look back over the experiences of the day, we shall not be ashamed to tell the Lord, as the returning apostles did, all we have done. And the Lord will give us the further instruction we need.

In Luke this further instruction first takes the form of the one miracle which is recorded in all four Gospels, and which we have studied in the Gospel of Mark. We so often feel inadequate in the face of an opportunity or obligation to give needed spiritual food to our neighbors or to our children. How shall I explain New Church teachings to my friends? How shall I answer my children's questions? Our impulse is to send them to others for the answers, as the apostles asked the Lord to send the multitude away into the villages to buy food. But the Lord says to us as to the apostles: "Give ye them to eat." However small our store of knowledge and experience, we have something to give, and we shall always find that as we try to give it, looking to the Lord for blessing, He will multiply it so that it will more than meet the need. And as we study the Word with the help which the Lord has provided for us in the writings, we shall become better and better able to serve as the Lord's apostles. Swedenborg tells us that influx is into our knowledges (@AC 4096).

Then in our chapter we come to a different type of instruction.

The story of the transfiguration is given in three Gospels. (The other accounts are in Matthew 17:1-9 and Mark 9:2-10.) In all three cases it is directly preceded by the story of the Lord's question and Peter's answer, the prophecy of the crucifixion and resurrection, and the teaching that whosoever will save his life shall lose it. First comes the necessity of recognizing the Lord as God, then the understanding of how He laid down His life for our salvation, then the recognition of the fact that we must lay down our self life if we are to be conjoined to Him, and finally the ability to see Him in His glorified humanity and to understand in the letter of the Word the teaching concerning Him.

@AE 64[2] states the correspondence of the story of the transfiguration more clearly and more briefly than any paraphrase could possibly do: "The Lord took Peter, James, and John, because by them the church in respect to faith, charity, and the works of charity was represented; He took them 'into a high mountain' because 'mountain' signifies heaven; 'His face did shine as the sun' (Matthew 17:2) because 'face' signifies the interiors, and it did shine as the sun because His interiors were Divine, for the 'sun' is Divine love; 'His garments became white as the light' because 'garments' signify Divine truth proceeding from Him; the like is signified by 'light'. 'Moses' and 'Elijah' appeared, because the two signify the Word, 'Moses' the historical Word, and 'Elijah' the prophetical Word; 'a bright cloud overshadowed them' because 'a bright cloud' signifies the Word in the letter within which is the internal sense; 'a voice out of the cloud said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, hear ye Him,' because 'a voice out of a cloud' signifies Divine truth out of the Word, and 'beloved Son' the Lord's Divine Human. And because Divine truth is from Him, and thence all truth of the church, it was said out of the cloud 'in whom I am well pleased, hear ye Him.'" See here the passage from @AC 5922[5] below. See also @AE 195[18], @AE 2576[19], and in Arcana Coelestia the preface to Genesis 18.

In the story of the transfiguration, after the cloud passed they saw Jesus only. When we, through belief in the Lord as God with us and faithfulness to His teachings, have been led up into the mountain of spiritual vision where we can see Him in His glory as the internal sense of the Word reveals Him, we come to recognize the Lord alone as God and as the whole of the Word. The three apostles could not share this vision with others "in those days." Such a vision is the crown of faithful service. It cannot be shared with those who have not prepared themselves to see it. The actual Second Coming of the Lord was a revelation of the internal sense of the Word, and the transfiguration is thus a prophecy of the understanding of the Lord made possible by His Second Coming.

