
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Junior notes this time will give the teacher a suggestion for developing the lesson. In taking up the voice from heaven recall the story of the Lord's baptism and have the class look it up in Luke 3:21-22. Be sure the children know the names Peter, James, and John, and suggest that they learn the full list of the twelve, which will be found in Luke 6:14-16.

---
What is a miracle?

What did the Lord do for the centurion?

What did He do for the widow of Nain?

What had happened to John the Baptist?

What did John want to know?

What did the Lord tell John's messengers?

What did He say about John?

Naturally the Lord's miracles attracted many people to Him.

The greater part of these people came because they wanted to be healed of their physical or mental diseases. The Lord healed those who were humble and believed in His power. But there were many — especially those who had been prepared by John the Baptist — who wanted to be taught by the Lord how to live rightly. They came to Him to learn. They are called His disciples because the word disciple means "a learner." The Lord taught them all they were able to learn. You know that in school some children learn more than others. It is true that some have more mental aptitude than others, but this is only a part of the reason. A very great deal of our ability to learn depends on our desire to learn. A pupil in school whose mind is somewhere else than on the lesson does not learn much, does he? And neither does one who thinks he knows enough already. In the things which the Lord wants to teach us — things about God and heaven, about our souls, and about how to live good and useful lives in this world — the desire to learn is the most important thing in determining how much we learn. The Lord found among His disciples a few men whom He could teach much more than all the rest could be given. So He kept them with Him constantly and let them see and do many things not possible for the others. Look up and read Luke 6:13-16.

How many did the Lord choose?

What did He call them?

The word apostle means "one sent out," and our lesson today tells of the first time the Lord sent out the twelve.

What powers did He give them?

What were they to preach?

What were they not to take with them?

How were they to live?

This was a part of the special preparation the Lord gave His apostles. You know that when we are preparing for any particular work, it is not enough just to be told how it should be done: we have to have practice in doing it. For instance, no one ever learns to play the piano by just being told about music and what the notes are.

Our chapter tells about some other lessons the apostles had.

One of these lessons is told in a story which is found also in the Gospel of Mark.

What did the Lord say to them when they asked Him to send the multitude away to buy food?

What food did they have with them?

How many people were to be fed?

What happened after the Lord had blessed the food?

This miracle showed them that the Lord could give them power to meet people's needs, if they looked to Him for it.

Now read verses 7 to 9 and then verses 18 to 20. Even Herod could see that the power Jesus exercised came in some way from God, but only those who followed the Lord closely really understood that He was the Messiah or Christ, God Himself come into the world. And only three of the apostles could be given the wonderful vision with which our lesson closes. It makes a great difference what we believe about Christ. Christ means "anointed." The Hebrew word is Messiah. The Old Testament had said that in the fullness of time Jehovah Himself would come into the world in a human form which was to be called "the anointed one" and "the Son of God." In the Gospel of Mark Peter's answer is, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." They both mean the same, the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies, Jehovah in the flesh. Because Peter and James and John believed this, the Lord could open their spiritual eyes to see Him in His glory, as they would see Him in the spiritual world when they went there.

Where did they go for this vision?

How did the Lord look?

Who were seen with Him?

What did Peter want to do?

What overshadowed them which frightened them?

What did the voice from heaven say?

Whom did they see when the cloud had passed?

This vision is called the transfiguration, a word meaning "a change of appearance." In the vision, Moses represented the Law and Elijah the Prophets. In another place (Luke 24:27, 44)) after His resurrection, the Lord told His disciples that Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms all taught of Him. So at the end of this vision in our lesson Moses and Elijah disappeared, and the disciples saw only the Lord. This is what happens in our minds when we truly believe that Jesus is God Himself. We read the old Testament and find Him in it just the same as in the Gospels.

