
=== Primary

Try to teach the children the number of the apostles, what the words disciple and apostle mean, and the names of the Lord's three closest followers. The teacher should do as much as possible with the details of the lesson as abridged. This class should also learn the word transfiguration and what it means.

---
As the Lord went about the country and the villages preaching and teaching and working miracles, more and more people believed in Him and followed Him. Many came to Him only to be healed of their diseases. But others came to learn from Him how they ought to live. These were called His disciples, because the word disciple means "a learner."

The Lord knew just what was in the heart and mind of each one of these disciples, just as He always knows what is in the heart and mind of each one of us. From all His disciples He chose twelve men in whom He found certain special qualities which would make them able to go and tell other people the things He came to show them. These were the men who were to go out into the world, after the Lord's life on earth was over, and begin the Christian Church. These twelve were called apostles, because the word apostle means "one sent out." See if you can remember the words disciple and apostle and what they mean.

The Lord gave these men special instructions and also gave them practice in the work they were to do.

When the Lord sent them out, what powers did He give them?

What were they to preach?

What were they to take with them?

How were they to be taken care of?

Three of the apostles were often taken with the Lord when the others were left behind.

Which three were they?

Where did He take them to show them a vision?

What was the appearance of the Lord in the vision?

This vision is called the transfiguration, a word which means "change of appearance."

Whom did the apostles see talking with the Lord?

Moses and Elijah represent the Law and the Prophets.

What did Peter want to do?

What overshadowed them which made them afraid?

What did the voice from heaven say?

When the cloud passed, whom did they see?

The apostles were the ones who, after the Lord's earthly life was ended, went out into the world and began the Christian Church.

