
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Older Children: What did the centurion ask of the Lord? to heal his servant

Older Children: What did the Lord say about the centurion? he had great faith

Younger Children: What did the Lord do for the widow of Nain? restored son

Older Children: What had happened to John the Baptist? put in prison

Older Children: What did the messengers from John ask the Lord? are you Christ?

Older Children: What did the Lord tell them? tell John what you've seen

Older Children: What did He tell the people about John? great prophet

Younger Children: How many apostles were there? twelve

Younger Children: When the Lord sent them out, what powers did He give them? over devils, to heal

Older Children: What were they to preach? kingdom of God

Younger Children: What were they to do? preach and heal in all cities

Younger Children: What were they not to take with them? no "extras"

Younger Children: Where were they to stay? in people's homes

Older Children: What were they to do if they were not received? shake off dust

Older Children: What miracle is part of our lesson? feeding five thousand

Older Children: What did it teach the apostles? Lord's power to meet needs

Younger Teens: What did Peter believe about the Lord? the Christ of God

Younger Children: What three apostles were closest to the Lord? Peter, James, John

Younger Children: What vision were they allowed to see? Lord dazzling white

Younger Children: Who were seen talking with the Lord in the vision? Moses, Elijah

Older Children: What is this vision called? transfiguration

Younger Teens: To what does the number twelve correspond? all good and truth in complex, all we can know and feel if we are trying to serve God and neighbor

Older Teens: Why could only Peter, James, and John see the transfiguration? they believed He was the Christ

Older Teens: What do we learn from the Lord's instruction to His apostles about those who would and those who would not receive them? we should share freely with those who accept, but not try to force belief


