
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class the passages quoted from the writings as well as those quoted from the Word might be taken up and discussed one at a time. The powerful lesson presented by the story of Jonah should make us realize the importance of trying to correct the world's false estimate of it.

---
The prophet Jonah lived in the kingdom of Israel in the time of the second Jeroboam, not long after the death of Elisha. We learn this from 2 Kings 14:25. It is evident that he was recognized by the king as the Lord's prophet, for the prophecy mentioned in that verse is not a part of the book of Jonah. We see from this that it was not Jonah's prophecies to his own people which the Lord chose to have recorded. The book of Jonah differs from those of the other Minor Prophets in that it is a story about Jonah rather than an obvious prophecy or series of prophecies. Yet the whole story is prophetic and its importance is evidenced by the Lord's own references to it in Matthew 12:38-41 and Luke 11:20-32.

It is strange that in view of the Lord's own witness to the truth of the story, so many Christians who do not question other miracles have been induced to discard it as impossible. In our lesson on the first two chapters, we called attention to the fact that the word whale in Matthew 12:40 is a mistranslation — one which was not corrected in the Revised Standard Version. [It has, however, been corrected in several more recent versions. -Editor] The Greek word in Matthew as well as the Hebrew word in Jonah meant, at the time when it was used, any great fish or sea creature. It was at a much later date that its Latinized form came to be restricted to apply to the whale family only. Swedenborg says in the Diary that the story of Jonah is factual. We should all have this information in mind and not be silent when we meet with disbelief in the story and especially with ridicule of it.

For the story of Jonah contains very important lessons. In @AC 8481 Swedenborg says: "The falsity of evil which is in the good that is from our own, is compared to 'a worm' ... for falsity also gnaws and thus torments. There are two things which make hell, as there are two which make heaven ... the two which make hell are evil and falsity ... The torment in hell from the falsity is compared to 'a worm'; and the torment from evil there is compared to 'fire.'" See Isaiah 66:24 and Mark 9:43-44. We recall that Assyria, of which Nineveh was the capital, represents the reasoning plane of the mind, and we are told in @AC 1188: "That 'Nineveh' signifies falsities from the fallacies of the senses in the obscurity of an unenlightened understanding, and from ignorance, is evident in Jonah, who was sent to Nineveh, which city was pardoned because they were such." We might note that by this definition many of the people who disbelieve the story of Jonah today are "Ninevites," who would really change their opinion if the truth were told them.

This outline from the writings points to a very common temptation which few of us escape — the temptation to set ourselves up as the pattern which everyone should follow and to condemn and disparage anyone who does not conform to our pattern. That this is a very serious evil is impressed upon us by Swedenborg in many places, as for example in @AC 4949 where he speaks of some in the spiritual world "who have abodes under the soles of the feet" and who are constantly in the endeavor to ascend but always falling back. He says of these: "I was told that such are they who have despised others in comparison with themselves ... They are in a kind of stupidity; for such arrogance extinguishes and suffocates the light of heaven, and consequently intelligence." Jonah delivered the Lord's message to Nineveh, threatening it with destruction, but in his heart he was glorying in his own superiority to the Ninevites and looking forward to their discomfiture. He was thinking of his own importance as the Lord's prophet. When we are in this state of mind, we cannot be happy for any length of time, because we are always looking for things to criticize in those we despise and constantly being offended through our own false estimate of what they say and do. We miss all the true joy which comes from seeing and appreciating their good qualities. Our "worm dieth not." The tendency to think of ourselves as superior to others is one of our most subtle and deadly foes.

The Lord set us the example of humility and perfect love. We should take to heart His words in Matthew 20:25-28. He Himself, who was greatest of all, was the servant of all. On the cross He prayed for those who had crucified Him: "Father, forgive them: for they know not what they do." He has no pleasure in anyone's discomfiture, but only in leading each one, by whatever means is most likely to succeed, into the way of happiness and peace. He bade the disciples be "wise as serpents, and harmless as doves." This same lesson is brought out clearly in Ezekiel 18:20-24. As we learned in the case of David and Solomon, none of us ever reaches the point at which he is so wise and so great that he can think nothing false or do no wrong. In self-satisfaction lies concealed the "worm" of destruction.

