
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Young people often have "naturally" the feelings represented by Jonah's attitude in our story. This is our best opportunity to show them how unworthy and dangerous these feelings are, and to try to lead them into a more Christian attitude toward people they dislike.

---
Our lesson for today is again about the only one of the Minor Prophets who is at all familiar to most people. This is partly because in the letter the book of Jonah is a story, and partly unfortunately because the story has been so generally disbelieved and so often ridiculed. We have had a lesson on the first two chapters of Jonah and you may remember that much of the disbelief stems from the assumption — based on a mistranslation of the original Greek of Matthew 12:40 - that the great fish which is said to have swallowed Jonah was a whale, and the scientific fact that no whale's throat would permit the passage of a human body. If we keep in mind that both in the Hebrew and in the Greek the word merely indicates a great fish or sea creature, and that the book of Jonah says "the Lord prepared a great fish," we shall see that this is a miracle no more difficult to accept than any other, and we shall be able to speak up in answer to any ridicule of the story which we may hear, and so perhaps do some good. Swedenborg says in his Spiritual Diary 1391 that the story of Jonah is true.

In our Bible the Minor Prophets are not placed in exact historical order. They do not all indicate just when and where they were written, but Jonah was probably among the first. From the reference to him in 2 Kings 14:25 we learn that he is the first prophet mentioned by name after the death of Elisha, that he prophesied in Israel, and that he was recognized by the king of that time as the Lord's prophet. We learn also that he spoke other prophecies besides that of which the book of Jonah treats. He was the Lord's faithful prophet to his own people. But when he was given a message for the people of Nineveh, he did not want to deliver it. And it was this part of his life which the Lord chose to have recorded in the Word. The whole book of Jonah is a prophecy, meant not for the ancient Hebrews or for the people of Nineveh alone, but for us and for people of all time. In Matthew 12:39-41 the Lord Himself tells us that the experience of Jonah with the great fish was prophetic of His own three days in the tomb after His crucifixion, and in Luke 11:29-32 He refers to the two chapters which we have for today as a rebuke to those to whom He was preaching.

Many people who know about Jonah and the great fish do not know the rest of the story. Jonah's experience taught him that he must not set up his will against the Lord's, and while in the belly of the fish he promised obedience. So when, after he was cast out on the shore, the command of the Lord came to him the second time to go to Nineveh and preach the Lord's message there, he went. But his dislike of the Assyrian Gentiles, which had prompted his original flight, was unchanged, as we learn from the letter of the story. Nineveh, the capital of Assyria, was indeed a great city. It was very old, going back to the time of the Ancient Church (Genesis 10:11), and archaeological excavations of its ruins show it to have been sixty miles in circumference; so Jonah may well have walked a day's journey in it before reaching its center.

We remember that Assyria represents the reasoning plane of the mind, and Swedenborg tells us that Nineveh represents "falsities from the fallacies of the senses in the obscurity of an unenlightened understanding and from ignorance." (@AC 1188) He tells us that Jonah was sent to enlighten the people of Nineveh because at that time only the Israelites had the Word; and because the people of Nineveh had sinned from ignorance and repented when they were told the truth, the Lord could pardon and spare them. All through the Bible we have this same lesson, that wrong done from ignorance, while it has its inevitable effects, does not injure our souls, whereas wrong done when we know better does injure them.

Jonah was angry when the people of Nineveh were spared. He felt that all his hard experiences had been vain or useless. This was partly because he was thinking of his own reputation as a prophet, and partly because he had hoped to see Nineveh destroyed — both unworthy feelings. There is a lesson for us here because we are sometimes tempted by the same feelings. When we see someone doing wrong — especially someone whom we dislike — we are tempted to hope that we shall see him punished and be able to say, "I told you so." The fourth chapter of Jonah shows us just how unworthy of a Christian these feelings are.

Jonah went out of the city and made himself a booth to sit in while he watched to see what would happen. So we sometimes draw away from the person we have condemned and from the safety of our own self-satisfaction watch to see what will happen to him. The gourd which grew up to shade Jonah represents the evil state of pride in which he was — his sense of superiority and his unfriendliness. (It is now generally thought that the "gourd" was probably the castor oil plant, which even with slight handling may wilt and wither. -Editor) The worm which destroyed the gourd represents falsity from evil. The selfish man never feels secure for a long time. He imagines all kinds of bad intentions in other people which may be threatening him, and lets his imagination destroy his comfort like the vehement east wind, and his resentment burns like the sun which beat upon Jonah's head. His thought is all for himself and his own safety and importance. The Lord's words to Jonah in the last verse of the chapter teach us how opposite such feelings are to the Lord's love, which longs to save and bless everyone.

