
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors will probably remember most of the first part of the Jonah story. Find out how much they know and be sure their knowledge is accurate; this is particularly important in the case of a story so frequently misrepresented. Have the children look up the Bible references in their notes, and be sure they understand the major implications in each case. The final lesson of our chapters is obvious and simple.

---
How many Minor Prophets are there?

Which are the first and the last of them?

Where do the Minor Prophets come in the Bible?

In our Bibles the book of Jonah is the fifth of the Minor Prophets. But these books are not arranged exactly in the order in which the men lived. Jonah was probably the first of them all. Look up 2 Kings 14:25. He was the first prophet whose name we know after Elisha. And we also learn from this verse in 2 Kings that he had prophesied to his own people in Israel for a long enough time to be recognized by the king as the Lord's prophet. But his prophecies to his own people were not recorded for us in the Word. We know that everything which the Lord chose to have recorded in the Word contains a message for people in all times; so we must remember that, although the book of Jonah seems to be just a story about Jonah, it really has within it prophecies of things to come and deep lessons for us all. You will not study these until you are older, but you may form some idea about them by reading Matthew 12:38-41 and Luke 11:29-32.

Many people know the book of Jonah just as the story of Jonah and the "whale," and have never really read it carefully or learned anything about the last two chapters, which are our lesson for today. In our lesson on the first two chapters we found that it was not a whale at all, but a "great fish" prepared by the Lord to swallow Jonah. In some versions of Matthew it is called a whale, but that is an incorrect translation of the Greek word, which really means a "great fish." We need to know this, and also to know the story of the first two chapters, and, as you may not remember it clearly, we will just go over its main points.

Jonah was commanded by the Lord to go to Nineveh and "cry against it," that is, to rebuke the people of Nineveh for their sins. Nineveh was the capital of Assyria, and the ancient Jews despised and hated the Assyrians: so Jonah did not want to go there. He thought he could flee from the presence of the Lord by boarding a ship to Tarshish, a distant port on the Mediterranean. But the Lord sent a great storm, and when the sailors cast lots to see for whose fault the storm was sent, the lot fell on Jonah, and he agreed to be thrown into the sea to save the rest. He did not drown, however, because the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow him. He remained in the belly of the fish three days and three nights, and in that time he came to acknowledge his sin and that he ought not to oppose his will to the Lord's, and he thanked the Lord for teaching him this lesson and promised to obey Him. Then he was cast out on the shore, the Lord's command came to him the second time, and he went to Nineveh.

Nineveh was a very old and very famous city. It is mentioned as far back in the Bible as Genesis 10:11, and you remember that that is part of the Ancient Word. It was also a very great city. The ruins which have been uncovered show that it was sixty miles in circumference. So we can understand that Jonah may easily have walked "a day's journey" before getting to the heart of the city.

What did Jonah tell the people of Nineveh?

Did the people of Nineveh believe him?

What did the king do?

What did he command the people to do?

What did the Lord do for Nineveh?

Was Jonah pleased that Nineveh was spared?

Jonah had learned that he must obey the Lord, but his feelings toward the people of Nineveh had not changed. He evidently had been looking forward to seeing this great enemy city destroyed, and he also felt that after all he had gone through, his prophecy should certainly have been fulfilled. We sometimes allow ourselves to feel that we should like to see certain bad people punished, but this story of Jonah shows us that this is not the way we ought to feel. Where did Jonah go to see what would happen? What did the Lord cause to grow to give him shade? What came to destroy the gourd?

How did Jonah feel about it?

Then what did the Lord tell him?

The Lord loves all of us. When we are bad, His only desire is to bring us to a better state of mind so that He can make us happy. Sometimes He has to let punishment come to us when we will not learn in any other way, but He takes no pleasure in our suffering. Perhaps you remember that when the Lord was being crucified, He prayed for the people who had condemned Him saying, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do." This is our example. Read Ezekiel 18:23.

