
=== Notes for Parents

People often make fun of the story of Jonah and the "whale."

This is a great pity. As a part of the Word of God it is given to teach us important lessons which we need to know, and when we make fun of it, we deprive ourselves of help which the Lord is trying to give us. This is one of the ways of breaking the commandment: "Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." We should know, too, that the Bible does not say it was a whale that swallowed Jonah. The book of Jonah itself even in the English says that "the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah." And although the word "whale" is used in the traditional English translations of Matthew 12:40, this is a mistranslation of the Greek word which, like the Hebrew word, means "a great fish." This was one of the Lord's miracles — no more and no less remarkable than any other — and the Lord Himself while He was on earth spoke of it as true, and showed that it was a prophecy of what His own experience in the world was to be. Read also Luke 11:29-32. The Lord's use of the story should lead us to believe in it and to reverence it.

Strangely enough, the lesson of this story applies to the very people who ridicule it, for it points out the folly and wickedness of belief in our own wisdom and of the feeling of superiority to others. Making fun of something one doesn't understand is one of the evidences of this evil. Jonah was proud of himself as the Lord's prophet and as one of the "chosen people" who had the Scriptures. Like most of his countrymen, he despised all who were not like himself. When the Lord first told him to go and prophesy to the people of Nineveh, the great capital of the Assyrians, he tried to get out of obeying. And even after his experience with the great fish had taught him that he must obey, his heart was not changed. He went to Nineveh in the hope of seeing it destroyed, and when it was spared by the Lord, he was angry.

When we despise and dislike a person, we often would rather see him suffer in some way than make an effort to instruct and help him. This is not a Christian attitude. The Lord loves us all alike, and is always trying to lead us to a better life. He never permits punishment to come to anyone unless he will learn in no other way. On the cross He prayed for those who had crucified Him: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." When we draw back from other people and shut ourselves up with our own self-satisfaction, we are like Jonah going outside the city and making himself a booth to sit in. And our enjoyment of our exaggerated ideas of our own wisdom and importance, like the gourd which grew up to shade Jonah, will soon be destroyed by our own suspicions and disagreeable thoughts. It is only by forgetting ourselves and trying to make others happy that we can find any lasting happiness ourselves.

