
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Young people are apt to be more democratic in their daily relations with those of their own age than are older people who have grown into a fixed pattern of life. But young people are by no means free from the temptation to self-satisfaction and intolerance. The subtlety of the working of this selfish love in the heart, and the false ideas and attitudes which it develops in the mind should be stressed.

---
In our Bibles the book of Jonah is the fifth of the books called the Minor Prophets, but this does not mean that he was the fifth historically. In 2 Kings 14:25 Jonah is referred to as the Lord's prophet in Israel. This places him shortly after the death of Elisha and makes him probably the first of the twelve.

It is strange that so many Christians disbelieve and even ridicule the story of Jonah, for the Lord Himself teaches that Jonah's experience was a prophecy of His own rejection and of His three days in the tomb after His crucifixion (Matthew 12:38-41; Luke 11:29-32). For us in the New Church there is the further assurance of Swedenborg, who says that Jonah's story is true. In our lesson on the first two chapters of the book we learned that much of the disbelief in this particular miracle stems from the use of the word whale in Matthew, which is a mistranslation of the Greek. The word used both in the Greek and in the Hebrew means merely a "great fish," and we are told that the Lord had "prepared" the great fish.

Our lesson for today is on the last part of the story of Jonah, which is not so well known as the first two chapters. Jonah's original flight from the presence of the Lord was caused by his unwillingness to take the Lord's message to Nineveh, the capital of Assyria. Over and over again in both the Old and the New Testaments we are told how prone the ancient Hebrews were to despise all Gentiles. Swedenborg tells us (@AE 401[36]) that "Jonah was of that nation, and therefore was sent to Nineveh; for the Jewish nation had the Word, and were therefore able to teach those who were outside of the church, and who are called Gentiles; these are signified by 'Nineveh.' Because the Jewish nation was, above others, in the love of self and in falsities from that love, they wished well to none but themselves, thus not to the Gentiles, but these they hated. Because the character of that nation was such, and Jonah represented it, he was very angry that Jehovah should spare Nineveh." Jonah's experience with the great fish had made him obedient, but it had not changed his heart.

The temptation pictured in the story is one which is by no means characteristic of the Israelite nation alone, but is common to us all in one form or another; so the story is recorded for us as part of the Word, whereas Jonah's prophecies to his own people were not recorded. We all have a natural tendency to feel ourselves superior to those who differ from us. Our own race, our own education, our own knowledge, our own type of mind, our own idea of how things should be done — even our own taste in literature, in art, in music, in dress, in food — is, we assume, necessarily superior, and we tend to despise in one degree or another anyone who disagrees — who is "different." The Lord directed many of His parables and teachings against this attitude, and there is nothing more severely condemned in the writings than this sin of arrogance and superiority.

The story of Jonah and the gourd is one of the Lord's ways of bringing to our attention this deep-seated evil in us and showing us how contrary it is to the principles which, as Christians, we should be practicing. Jonah's withdrawal outside the city of Nineveh to "see what would become of the city" pictures our tendency to stand aloof from people we consider inferior to ourselves and observe them as mere curiosities. The booth he made for his shelter pictures our self-satisfaction. The gourd which grew up so rapidly to give him shade is the evil of arrogance which seems at first to give us pleasure and satisfaction. But this very sense of superiority breeds false ideas of everything. We begin to believe that nothing is good which does not minister to our pride in ourselves. We misjudge the thoughts and intentions of others and imagine all sorts of affronts and threats to our dignity where none exist, as Jonah, loving his position as a prophet, felt that the Lord had made light of it, and so he wanted to die. These false ideas are the "worm" which destroyed the gourd and left Jonah exposed to the burning "sun" of his self-love.

The Lord's lesson taught in the last two verses of the book is clear. Jonah had thought only of himself and of worldly honor, which passes away "in a night," as all earthly things do. The Lord's concern is with the souls of all men, good and bad alike. He loves each one, regardless of his worldly position, education, wealth, or even his knowledge of the truth or his correctness of life. He wants us all to be happy, and permits punishment to fall on us only when we will learn in no other way the things in us which are leading to unhappiness. In Ezekiel 18:23 He says: "Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die? saith the Lord God: and not that he should return from his ways, and live?" If we are to be true followers of the Lord, we should recognize and fight in ourselves all tendency to set ourselves above others. We should keep in mind always the Lord's words to His disciples (Matthew 20:25-28): "Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many."

