
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The most fruitful discussion topic is probably the application of this story to our own lives in our recurring states of temptation, especially the lesson of the Lord's wise providence in preparing for these states in us before we ourselves have reached them. The meaning of Joseph is worthy of careful study. It is not simple — but our mental processes are not simple — and we could all profit by a clearer understanding of what actually goes on in our minds and hearts and of the Lord's care over us.

---
The story of Joseph is so familiar to us and contains so many obvious lessons that we do not always stop to think of its spiritual meaning. In reference to the education of our children we see readily that Joseph sold into Egypt and there cast into prison is a picture of how the spiritual inclinations of childhood and youth are often pushed into the background and even willfully confined there as our young people grow up and become absorbed in the activities and pleasures of adult life in the world. If we have been careful to give them adequate spiritual instruction in their childhood and to foster in them an affirmative attitude toward religion and the church, we can be patient during this period of lessened interest, knowing that Joseph is still alive and at work under the surface and will in the Lord's good time be brought forth to interpret their problems and nourish them in the inevitable time of famine.

But no part of the Word is applicable to one period of life alone.

If we are making spiritual progress, we pass through various cycles of the Word again and again in the course of our lives. With every spiritual success — such as is pictured by the return of Jacob and his family to the Holy Land — there comes the temptation to be self-satisfied, to forget that our seeming goodness is not our own and to imagine that we shall not again be in want of spiritual instruction and help. The place we think we have earned for ourselves in the world is very satisfactory. Every time we close our minds to the thought that we still have shortcomings, "Joseph" is sold into Egypt.

Our own wisdom cannot prevent the recurring famine nor provide against it. Our chapter for today teaches us how the Lord foresees our coming need and prepares us to meet it. We recall that Joseph later said to his brothers, "God did send me before you to preserve life." (Genesis 45:5) Egypt pictures the plane of memory-knowledge. In that plane in our minds are gathered all the facts we have ever learned, not only the facts concerning the physical world and life in it but all we have read and heard of the letter of the Word and the instruction which has been given us in connection with it. The Lord's preparation for our time of need begins in this plane. He sees to it that a Pharaoh — a ruling principle — comes to the throne in Egypt who wants to be enlightened. Then he inspires dreams which foreshadow the approaching trouble. Then, to interpret the dreams and provide for the salvation of the people, He causes the butler to remember Joseph and brings Joseph up out of prison.

We should try to come to some understanding of what Joseph and his experiences mean in our own lives, if we are regenerating. For this effort one of the most helpful passages is @AC 4286, where in connection with the changing of Jacob's name to Israel Swedenborg says: "That this signifies the Divine celestial spiritual now, and that 'Israel' is the celestial spiritual man in the natural, and thus is natural; and that the celestial spiritual man itself, which is rational, is 'Joseph,' is evident from what follows. This is the reason why it is said that Israel is the celestial spiritual man which is in the natural, and thus is natural; and that Joseph is the celestial spiritual man itself, which is rational. For in the universal sense all the good which is of love and charity is called celestial, and all the derivative truth of faith and intelligence is said to be spiritual." Another helpful statement is found in @AC 4585 in connection with the birth of Benjamin: "These things cannot fall into the understanding of anyone unless it is known what the external man and the internal man are, and that the former is distinct from the latter, although while man is living in the body they appear as one; also unless it is known that the natural constitutes the external man, and the rational the internal; and further unless it is known what the spiritual is and what the celestial."

The importance to us of the Lord's provision for our times of famine is impressed upon us throughout the interpretation of this part of the Joseph story in the Arcana. In @AC 5342 we find this especially clear and simple statement: "That truths adjoined to good are stored up in the interiors of the natural mind, and there preserved for use in after life, especially for use in temptations during man's regeneration, is a secret known to few at this day; and therefore something must be said about this. For by the 'seven years of abundance of produce' are signified the truths first multiplied, and by the corn being 'put in the cities' and 'in the midst' is signified that these truths adjoined to good are stored up in man's interiors; and by the 'seven years of famine,' and by the sustenance at that time from the gatherings, is signified a state of regeneration through truths adjoined to good, stored up in the interiors. ... It is these truths adjoined to good that in the proper sense are called 'remains.' In so far therefore as the man suffers himself to be regenerated, so far the remains serve for use; for so far a supply from them is drawn forth by the Lord, and is sent back into the natural, in order to produce a correspondence of the exteriors with the interiors, or of what is natural with what is spiritual; and this is effected in the state signified by the 'seven years of famine.' Such is the secret. The man of the church at this day believes that no matter what anyone's life is, he may of mercy be received into heaven, and there enjoy eternal bliss; for he supposes admission to be all that is necessary. But he is much mistaken, for no one can be admitted and received into heaven unless he has received spiritual life, and no one can receive spiritual life unless he is being regenerated, and no one can be regenerated except through the good of life conjoined with the truth of doctrine: from this he has spiritual life."

