
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the story of Joseph — particularly of this part of it — is especially important for the Intermediates because it may affect their general attitude toward their lessons in school and Sunday school. The meaning of the time of famine and of the fact that only Joseph was capable of foreseeing and providing for it will be of great help to them if they will take it to heart.

---
There are many things in Joseph's story which remind us of the Lord's experience when He was on earth. Men hated the Lord because he pointed out the wrong things they were doing, and the Lord was betrayed by one who should have loved him, and was sold for a few pieces of silver. But just as the Lord's trials were the means of our salvation, so the hardships through which Joseph passed became a means of advancing him and eventually of saving his brothers.

Through this story also the Lord teaches us a beautiful, practical lesson. Egypt represents the plane of memory-knowledge. This means not only knowledge about the natural world but also the kind of knowledge we learn in Sunday school: the stories of the Bible, the Psalms and other passages which we memorize, the Commandments, and the simple lessons we get even before we understand any of it very deeply. You know from your study of geography that Egypt for the most part is a low, flat country, depending for its fertility entirely on the inundations of the Nile River, which rarely fail. The rich soil deposited throughout the valley by these floods raises rich crops of grain, but no precious metals or precious stones are found in Egypt, although the Egyptians were skilled workers in the gold and silver which they imported. The Egyptians of Joseph's time were simple, peaceful, and industrious, and their great men were noted for their natural learning in the sciences. The fact that Egypt was the granary of the ancient world is symbolic of its collected learning. Swedenborg tells us that in ancient times the knowledge of correspondences was especially cherished in Egypt and that the Egyptian hieroglyphics were based upon this knowledge. Ancient Egyptians worshiped the calf, the symbol of affection for useful natural learning.

The Lord was with Joseph and protected him. His being sold in Egypt saved him from the jealous plots of his brothers. Hundreds of years later another Joseph was warned in a dream to take the infant Jesus into Egypt to save him from the wrath of Herod. This has a meaning for us also. The chief business of every one of us during our childhood and youth is to acquire knowledge of all sorts. Did you ever hear it said of someone who had been a very active child, "I don't see how he ever lived to grow up"? The Lord takes special care of children until they have learned to take care of themselves. He gives us a long childhood for the very reason that we need so much knowledge with which to face the problems of life, and He takes care of us while we are acquiring this knowledge. When He came into the world, He went down into Egypt to show us that this is an orderly part of our lives and also as a symbol of what He in His assumed humanity was doing: learning the letter of the Scriptures.

The Lord used quotations from the Scriptures constantly in his ministry. He had learned these in His childhood just as we memorize Bible verses. Only unlike us the Lord in His childhood stored in His memory all of the Word of the Old Testament. This shows us how important it is that we use the opportunities we have in childhood and youth to store our minds with knowledge of the Word and to memorize as much of it as we can.

We have learned that the twelve sons of Jacob represent all the good thoughts and affections which we develop. But we must remember that any of these may be "perverted," which means turned to selfish purposes, just as Joseph's brothers turned against him because they were thinking of their own importance. When this happens, the Lord makes use of the higher things in us as a means to save us. Joseph in us is our affection for spiritual truth. Joseph lived in a higher thought world than his older brothers; he dreamed dreams and interpreted them. So when we love to think about the Lord and heaven, worldly things — food and clothes and parties — do not seem so important because we see over and beyond them. But very often for a time at least our worldly affections get the better of our "Joseph" and try to get rid of him. Then the Lord preserves him for us in Egypt. He becomes a part of our memory-knowledge and he is in prison there. But even in prison Joseph rose to become ruler, and he interpreted the dreams of the butler and the baker. This is a picture of how the Lord works in our lives even when we have tried to put Him out of our thoughts. He holds our lives in some sort of order and from time to time gives us glimpses of what the results of our actions must finally be.

Then someday an experience comes to us which we cannot understand, and none of the principles by which we have been living in our selfish pursuit of our own pleasure is able to help us. This is Pharaoh with his strange dreams which none of his magicians could interpret. So we are reminded of Joseph and we send for him out of prison: we think of the Lord and try to see things in the light of His truth. And in that light everything becomes clear and we realize that we must set our lives in order according to the Lord's way instead of our own, as Pharaoh placed Joseph over all the land.

The seven years of plenty are the times when it is easy for us to learn and when we have the opportunity. The seven years of famine are the times — which come to all of us — when we are too busy earning a living and taking care of our families to acquire new knowledge, and have to depend on the principles we have acquired in our youth. So the earlier we put Joseph in charge of our land the better.

