
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
We have included in the Junior notes a description of Egypt for the purpose of impressing on the children's minds the nature of the country, since its correspondence will become very important when they reach the Intermediate age. The same principal lesson should be stressed as for the Primary class.

---
The Joseph story is a very familiar one and most of you have heard it from the time when you were little children. Let us see how much you remember of the part of the story which precedes our chapter for today.

What did Joseph's brothers do with him? To whom was he sold in Egypt?

To what position did he rise in Potiphar's house? Who told lies about him to Potiphar?

What did Potiphar do with him?

How did he get along in the prison?

Who were in prison with him?

What did he do for them?

What did Joseph ask of the king's butler?

Did the butler remember when he was free what Joseph had asked him to do?

What finally made the butler remember Joseph?

This last question is part of our lesson for today. Egypt is a unique country. It is long and narrow because it follows the course of the Nile River, and all its fertile land is in the valley on either side of the Nile. This is what a Bible dictionary says about Egypt: " ... The general appearance of the country cannot have greatly changed since the days of Moses. The whole country is remarkable for its extreme fertility, which especially strikes the beholder when the rich green of the fields is contrasted with the utterly bare, yellow mountains or the sand—strewn rocky desert on either side. The climate is equable and healthy. Rain is not very infrequent on the northern coast, but inland is very rare. Cultivation nowhere depends upon it. The inundation of the Nile fertilizes and sustains the country, and makes the river its chief blessing. The Nile was on this account anciently worshiped. The rise begins in Egypt about the summer solstice, and the inundation commences about two months later. The greatest height is attained about or somewhat after the autumnal equinox. The inundation lasts about three months. The atmosphere, except on the seacoast, is remarkably dry and clear, which accounts for the so perfect preservation of the monuments, with their pictures and inscriptions. The heat is extreme during a large part of the year. The winters are mild — from 50° to 60°F in the afternoon shade, in the coldest season."

So you can see that seven years of famine in Egypt would be a very unexpected calamity. And as Egypt, because of its steady climate and productiveness, was the place to which all the surrounding countries were in the habit of sending for food in times of drought and famine, it would have been a calamity for many besides the Egyptians if the famine had caught Egypt unprepared. How was the Pharaoh (the title of the king of Egypt) of the time of Joseph warned of the approaching famine?

Who finally interpreted his dreams?

What did Joseph advise him to do?

Why did Pharaoh choose Joseph to carry out this advice?

What power did he give him?

Whom did he give him for his wife?

What two sons were born to Joseph?

How did he prepare for the famine?

The story of Joseph teaches us a great many lessons which you will study when you are a little older. But there is one principal lesson which you can understand now. When things happen to us which we do not like, we are all liable to waste a great deal of time and energy in being sorry for ourselves, blaming other people, and thinking of ways to "pay back" the wrong we believe has been done to us, and even in finding fault with the Lord for not making everything in the world just to suit us. If instead of this we, like Joseph, would accept what has happened without resentment and begin immediately to make the best of our changed condition and set ourselves to work at being useful, we should soon find that what we thought was a misfortune was really an opportunity for new and greater achievement. We gain strength of character by meeting our difficulties in the right way, just as we gain physical strength by exercise.

