
=== Notes for Parents

We all know the story of Joseph. It is one of the most familiar and the best—loved in the Bible. Looked at from the outside we might think of it just as a "success story," the story of a young boy driven from his home by the jealousy of his own brothers, sold as a slave, cast into prison on false charges, and nevertheless in thirteen short years declared ruler of Egypt, second only to the king. Joseph was indeed honest, industrious, prudent, and faithful, but there is something else in his story which is sometimes overlooked: When Pharaoh sent for Joseph out of the prison and said to him, "I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it," Joseph answered, "It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace." And after Joseph had interpreted Pharaoh's dreams, telling him of the coming famine, and had advised him to choose a wise man and set him over the country to prepare against the famine, Pharaoh said to his servants:

"Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?" Joseph took no credit to himself for his wisdom. He believed in God and trusted in His guidance. When Joseph ruled Egypt, it was the Lord who really ruled.

This is the lesson we should learn from Joseph. We are not wise except as we learn wisdom from the Lord through His Word. We all have our seven years of plenty, our times when we have opportunity to learn the Lord's way of life and when it is easy for us to learn, and we have our years of famine, the times when the way seems too hard for us and we recognize our ignorance and weakness. But if in the time of plenty we store our minds with as much of the Lord's truth as possible, we shall be able to draw on that store in the hard times.

Childhood and youth are given us for the particular purpose of acquiring knowledge for life, and the most important knowledge of all is knowledge of the Lord and His ways. Let us all help our children to make the most of their years of plenty.

