
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The principal lesson for the Seniors is the same as that for the Intermediates but should be approached in terms of the spiritual and natural planes of life rather than as merely teaching the necessity of storing up knowledge. The quotation from the writings will serve as a guide here.

---
Joseph's gradual rise to power in Egypt pictures our gradual realization that the only really safe and wise ordering of our everyday life must come from putting it under the government of spiritual principles. When we are young, we are carried away with the delights of natural learning and natural satisfactions. But we have premonitions even then that these will not always be enough. Pharaoh's dreams are a picture of these times of ours when we ask ourselves, "Where do we go from here?" None of the magicians of Egypt — none of the specious arguments of self-interest — can answer this question. But from deep within us, where worldly interests have buried it, comes a reminder of someone who can answer, someone who in the past has told us truly what our life would be like. The Lord once said to His disciples, "And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe." Most of the spiritual instruction of our childhood is of this sort. When the magicians could not interpret Pharaoh's dreams, the butler suddenly remembered Joseph.

Egypt under the Pharaoh who chose Joseph for his governor pictures a practical life which is inclined to be rightly ordered. In such a life the seven years of plenty picture all the states in which we are eager to learn and to do what is right. The experiences of these times of plenty are stored up to tide us over the inevitable times of doubt and uncertainty, which the famine represents. Whenever in times of sorrow or temptation we remind ourselves of what we have learned of the Lord's goodness and of His Divine providence over us, we are going to Joseph's storehouses to buy food.

The ability of the spiritual truths we have learned in childhood to show us plainly what the future will bring and how we should provide for it leads the wise to order their lives accordingly. As in the Bible story, we still have many years in Egypt. When we recognize that spiritual principles must rule in our everyday life, we are not immediately freed from all necessity of worldly learning and prudence. Nor are we safely on the highroad to heaven. In the story the captivity and the forty years wandering in the wilderness are still ahead, before the bones of Joseph can be taken back to the Holy Land.

Our chapter for today shows us the necessity of storing up in our minds, while we are young and learn easily, as much as possible of the letter of the Word, so that when we need it, the Lord can recall it to us and give us guidance and strength to see our way and to resist temptation. And it shows us also that if we are truly wise, we shall from the start recognize the spiritual as our true ruler. As Pharaoh said, "Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?"

