
=== Primary

The little ones will enjoy the story, especially the way in which the three hundred were chosen and the way in which the lamps and trumpets were used. Tell them that Gideon did not think much of his own abilities, but that he won the victory because he was willing to obey the Lord and was not afraid. All the details of the story will be interesting to the class, especially those concerning Gideon's call, his destroying the altar of Baal, and the signs given him. The Midianite's dream will also interest them.

Under Joshua the Israelites conquered the whole land.

Then it was divided among the tribes by lot.

They set up the tabernacle at Shiloh, in the center of the land, halfway between Shechem and Bethel.

Then they settled down in their new homes and became prosperous, and they began to forget the Lord.

Joshua died, and for a time they had no great leader.

Their enemies began to grow strong again and to trouble and attack them. Each time an enemy attacked, they suddenly remembered to ask the Lord's help, and each time He raised up someone to lead them to victory again. These people were called Judges.

They did not rule over all the people, but each had one special task to do.

In our story for today, the enemies who are attacking them are the Midianites. They came into the country in hordes, just like grasshoppers, and destroyed the crops of the Israelites and drove away their cattle.

Then the Israelites began to think about the Lord again and begged Him to save them, and the Lord did save them. He sent an angel to a man named Gideon and told him to raise an army and fight the Midianites. Gideon, just like Moses at the burning bush, thought at first that he was not great enough to lead the people, but the Lord promised to be with him.

You see, Gideon was modest about himself just like Moses and Joshua. But the Lord proved to Gideon that He would be with him and give him victory.

Then Gideon was able to raise a great army of thirty-two thousand men. Why did the Lord tell him he had too many men?

Who were first sent home?

What further test was given?

How many were there in the army finally? What "weapons" did they have?

What did Gideon tell them to do?

What were they to shout?

What happened to the Midianites?

If we forget the Lord and do not obey Him, He cannot help us.

But if we do obey Him and trust Him, then it does not matter how weak and small we are or how few there are of us, for the Lord is with us and gives us power.

