
=== Adult

The interpretation of the creation of woman from the rib of man is perhaps the best discussion topic for this class, although the general correspondences of the Garden of Eden should be covered first.

---
We have seen that the Creation story is the account of the orderly development of the race or of the individual. The first people did in general develop in this way, so that the first church on earth — the Most Ancient Church — was composed of a very high type of people, "celestial people," who loved the Lord supremely, had open communication with the heavens, and cared for the things of this world only as they were related to and could serve spiritual things. The Lord instructed them directly through their affections. We know that we cannot trust our desires to tell us what is true and good because so many of our desires are evil. But the early people had only good and innocent desires because they were content to be led entirely by the Lord and did not care to guide themselves or to imagine that they knew anything apart from the Lord's teaching. In various parts of the writings Swedenborg tells us many things about these people, of their simple, happy life, their high ideal of marriage, their love for each other and for children, their worship. Love was the keynote of everything, and for this reason the traditions of this period have come down to us — aside from the symbolic stories of the early chapters of Genesis — in the myths of the "Golden Age," for gold has always been recognized as the symbol of love. The Word describes this civilization as a garden which the Lord planted "eastward in Eden," Eden meaning pleasure or delight, and eastward always meaning near the Lord. The garden was watered by the river of wisdom from the Lord's love, and in it were all trees "pleasant to the sight and good for food," which mean all the knowledge necessary to make men happy and useful. And in the center was the tree of life, which is the knowledge that man lives from the Lord alone. Man was placed in this garden "to dress it and keep it"; that is, he realized that all the good things he had belonged to the Lord and were to be used in His service.

Everyone loves a little baby because of the beautiful sphere of innocence and trust which surrounds him. The infancy of the individual is like the infancy of the race, before the development of self-consciousness and self-seeking. He is close to the Lord and the angels, and is without anxiety or fear. In this sense the life story of the individual begins in the Garden of Eden. The four heads into which the river was divided picture the Lord's provision for the enlightenment of all the planes of the mind: the Pison is symbolic of the highest intelligence, which is from love; so there was gold in the land compassed by that river. The Gihon pictures "the knowledge of all things that belong to the good and the true" (@AC 116). The Hiddekel stands for "reason, or the clear-sightedness of reason" (@AC 118), that plane or faculty which connects the internal with the external mind and enables us to relate the two. And the Euphrates represents memory knowledge, all that we learn of the externals of things, which serves as a basis for the higher planes. All good and useful knowledge is open to us, and all good things are given us to use and enjoy. To eat of every tree is "to know from perception what is good and true" (@AC 125). As long as men were content to be led solely by the Lord, they had this perception. Very little children retain something akin to such perception; they are given to sense the quality of those about them, feeling "instinctively" whether a person is really kind and loving or merely pretending an affection he does not feel.

But there is another tree in the garden of which the man in the story was commanded not to eat — the "tree of knowledge of good and evil." In reading this story people sometimes wonder why the Lord put anything in the garden which men should not eat, and they sometimes even feel that the Lord must have put it there on purpose to tempt men, just as people sometimes blame the Lord for their troubles and say, "How can the Lord be a God of love when He permits people to be unhappy?" The tree of knowledge of good and evil was man's ability to think of himself as independent of the Lord. The presence of this ability in the garden of the human soul is necessary to man's being man. The Lord created man to make him happy, but happiness can come only from love freely given; so man could not be a mere mechanical agent of the Lord's love as other created things are. He must have a type of independence, the power to decide for himself whether he wishes to return the Lord's love or not. Therefore, although all life and power actually come to man moment by moment from the Lord, man is allowed to feel this life and power as his own and to use it as he pleases. This tree had to be in the garden, but the Lord warned man not to eat of its fruit, that is, not to depend on himself for knowledge of what is good and true, because if he did he would be cutting himself off from the real source of goodness and wisdom and would become spiritually dead. As Swedenborg puts it (@AC 126), "We are not to inquire into the mysteries of faith by means of the things of sense and of the memory, for in this case the celestial of faith is destroyed." In one of our New Church Books of Worship this prohibition is put in the form of simple doctrine to be acknowledged by those who wish to be confirmed in the New Church: "In abstaining from evil and doing good we are to act as of ourselves; at the same time believing and acknowledging that the will, the understanding, and the power to do so are of the Lord alone."

The last part of our chapter treats of the first step in the descent of man from this high state, the awakening of the desire for independent life, and of the way in which the Lord's providence recognizes and meets this desire. Swedenborg tells us (@AC 139) that throughout the Word "to dwell alone" signifies to live wholly from the Lord and so not to be subject to the influence of mere externals, which are the source of evils. The first men dwelt alone in this sense, and so does a little baby. But when the Lord sees that man is beginning to be more consciously interested in external things, He provides a way by which man may, if he will, develop this external consciousness and still not become absorbed in self. First He shows us all the things which are within us and teaches us their character. This is described by the Lord's bringing all the living creatures to Adam to see what he would call them. So a little child, in the course of his everyday experience, learns a great many things about himself and the world about him. Then comes a time when through all this knowledge he develops a feeling of self-importance which dulls his interest in higher things. This is the deep sleep which fell upon Adam. The rib which the Lord took is the picture of this self-hood — the Own, or proprium — of each one of us as it really is, merely the dead framework of a human being. Only when this self-hood is seen in its true relation to the Lord and the Lord's spirit is allowed to work through it does it become clothed with flesh and living. There is a deep psychology in this lesson. To make progress in character we must be able to "get outside of ourselves," to "see ourselves as others see us," and especially as the Lord and the angels see us. Then we begin to look at our self-hood as a tool given us to fashion for the Lord's service, and to love ourselves only for the use we can be to the neighbor. In this way our dead self-hood becomes a beautiful living thing, like the woman fashioned by the Lord from the rib of the man. The writings say: "The Own of man, when viewed from heaven, appears like something which is wholly bony, inanimate, and very ugly, consequently as being in itself dead, but when vivified by the Lord it looks like flesh" (@AC 149). Only the Lord's Own was living; so He said: "A spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have" (Luke 24:39).

