
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Begin by reminding the young people of the correspondence of the vegetable kingdom, and take up the correspondence of the river and the tree of life to account for the beauty and fruitfulness of the life of the people of the Most Ancient Church. This is a good lesson in which to point out the value of knowing the meaning of the Hebrew names. Take up the creation of woman in a general way, stressing the principle that the Lord provided the marriage relation to promote unselfishness. If we were allowed to feel complete in ourselves, it would be very much harder for us to be unselfish.

---
In studying the story of the Garden of Eden we should know first that Adam and Eve were not two individuals but symbol figures, representing the people of the first "church" on earth — the Most Ancient Church. Adam is merely the Hebrew word for "man," and is the same word that is translated "man" in Genesis 1:26. Eve means "life." Eden means "delight." The garden is said to have been "eastward" in Eden because east represents nearness to the Lord. The four quarters — east, west, north, and south — represent states of nearness to or withdrawal from the Lord. The Lord, because He is represented by the sun which rises in the east, is identified with the east. Eastward, therefore, pictures a state of closeness to the Lord, and westward pictures a lessening of this closeness. South, the area which receives light during the greater part of the year, pictures greater understanding of the Lord's truth, and north pictures less understanding.

The river which divides into four heads represents the truth as it comes from the Lord into our minds, and its four "heads" or divisions are the different planes or levels of thought and feeling which divine truth supplies. Pison means "overflowing," and this quality applies to truths relating to the Lord's Divine love. In the land watered by this river there is gold, the mineral which represents love. The Gihon, or river which "bursts forth," describes the quality of truths about spiritual life. The Hiddekel (rapid) portrays the characteristics of the reasoning plane of our minds. And the Euphrates (fruitful) pictures truths as they apply to our outward conduct. As you study the Bible, you will find that it contains truth which satisfies the needs of all four of these areas. This river of Eden is the same river seen in vision by Ezekiel (Ezekiel 47:1-5, 12) and John (Revelation 22:1-2).

The vegetable kingdom represents our thinking. Trees, the largest and loftiest things in this kingdom, express the ruling thoughts or principles by which we live. The tree of life is the thought or principle that all things come from the Lord. It was in the midst of the Garden of Eden because the people then lived by this principle. The tree of knowledge of good and evil represents the thought that we can be good and wise in and of ourselves without looking to the Lord for guidance and strength. This is the tree whose fruit Adam was commanded not to eat, and the same command applies to us as well.

When we give something a name, it means that we know what the thing is, its nature and uses. The early people saw everything in nature truly, each thing as a particular expression of the Lord's love for them. So in the parable Adam was able to give names to everything.

The story of the creation of woman from the rib of man is a parable, too. As man developed, he was not content to "live alone" with God in his heart. He wanted to feel independent, just as a little child does very early in his development. Then he had to be taught to love something outside himself in the world, to keep him from being wholly selfish. In true marriage husband and wife love each other more than self. Verse 24 is often used in marriage services, for it tells us that marriage is a holy state, ordained by the Lord from the beginning, and to be cherished above all other human relations. Notice that in the parable a deep sleep fell upon Adam. This is a picture of a time in the development of the human race when men began to be so interested in the natural world around them that they forgot that their souls were more important than their bodies. We are likely to forget this, too. The rib which the Lord took from Adam showed how lifeless man is in himself. It is only as the Lord's spirit enters into us that we become really alive and lovely.

