
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The details of the story should be impressed on the children with the understanding that this is a wonderful parable which they will understand better and better as they grow older. The correspondence of the Garden of Eden, the river, and the two trees can be given. Be sure to have the class look up and read the references in Ezekiel and in Revelation, and in connection with the tree of life refer again to Revelation 22:2.

---
What is the name of the first book in the Bible?

What does Genesis mean?

What is the first chapter about?

In how many days was everything created?

What did the Lord say which started the development of everything?

What was the last thing created?

What happened on the seventh day?

Our lesson for today is another beautiful parable. A parable is a story which has another meaning within it.

What is our chapter about?

How was the Garden of Eden watered?

Into how many streams did the river divide?

Who lived in the garden?

What was Adam to do in the garden?

Adam is a Hebrew word which means "man." It is the same word that is used in verse 26 of the first chapter. So you see that this chapter is not about one man and woman but about the human race after it had developed far enough to know and serve the Lord. It was the first church which existed on earth — the Most Ancient Church — and the Garden of Eden is a picture of the beautiful, peaceful state in which its people lived. Eden means "delight." They depended on the Lord for everything, and He could give them all they needed freely because they obeyed Him. You know that when you obey your parents, they can do many more pleasant things for you than they can when you are disobedient.

Last week we learned that light is a symbol of truth. In our lesson today we have another symbol for truth — that is, water. Perhaps you have heard people say of some wise man that he always had "a thirst for knowledge." Look up and read Ezekiel 47:1-5 and Revelation 22:1-2. These describe the same river that watered the Garden of Eden — that of truth from the Lord. Now read John 4:5-14.

What tree was in the midst of the garden?

What other tree is mentioned?

What one thing was Adam told not to do?

The early people were innocent and happy because they understood that everything they had came from the Lord, and they loved and trusted Him and did not want to have their own way. This happy state is the beautiful garden and the tree of life in the center is the thought that everything comes from the Lord. As long as men obeyed the Lord and took care of all His gifts and used them as they were meant to be used, they could go on living in the happy garden.

The other tree, of whose fruit they were not to eat, is the thought that we can know what is good and wise from ourselves, without learning from the Lord. Very soon we shall learn what happened when they disobeyed the Lord and ate of the fruit of this tree.

What did the Lord do when Adam was asleep?

What did He make from the rib?

The story of the creation of woman out of the rib of man is a parable, too. One of the things it teaches us is that "it is not good for man to be alone." Men and women were created by the Lord to help each other. Marriage is a holy state ordained by the Lord from the beginning. You will learn much more about this part of the story and its meaning when you are older.

