
=== Primary

Teachers will have no difficulty in talking to young children about the beautiful Garden of Eden. The river, the trees, the fruit, and the animals all connect with the children's own experience. Tell them that the Lord made this beautiful garden on purpose for men to live in long ago when He first created them. He told them to take good care of it — "to dress it and keep it." He told them that they might enjoy all the fruit except the fruit of one tree. If they had obeyed the Lord, they would have been able to go on living in the garden always. In this way prepare the children for the fact that men lost the garden because they did not obey the Lord. When we are selfish with our things and misuse and spoil them, we are spoiling our "garden."

---
When the Lord created the first people, He gave them a beautiful place to live in. It is called the Garden of Eden, and in our chapter for today the first people are called Adam. Let us read the story from the Bible. [Read Genesis 2:8-25.]

You see these first people were taken care of by the Lord just as you are taken care of by your parents. The Lord provided their food and gave them everything they needed, and they were grateful to Him and loved Him. They had not begun to be selfish or to want their own way. They obeyed the Lord and took care of everything in the garden just as He told them to do.

Where did the Lord put the first people?

Eden means "delight."

How was the Garden of Eden watered?

Into how many streams did the river divide?

What tree was in the midst of the garden? What were the first people to do in the garden?

Can you remember what was the one thing the Lord told them not to do? You know that when your parents tell you not to do something, you are likely to think about just that particular thing, and pretty soon it begins to seem just the one thing you most want to do. That is what is called temptation. If we are wise, we do not disobey, but all of us sometimes are foolish instead of wise.

