
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Give attention to the suggestions in the Intermediate section, but use more of the class time for the discussion of the creation of woman. This lesson is our first opportunity for a discussion of marriage, which is so important with this class.

---
Even among those who know nothing of the language of correspondences the Garden of Eden has always been a symbol of a state of innocence and happiness. This is because it is in fact the Lord's own picture of such a state.

The Garden of Eden was not a material garden. But the spiritual state which it pictures was actually the state of the men and women of the earliest church on earth, which Swedenborg calls the Most Ancient or the Adamic Church. These people knew that they lived from the Lord. That was the central principle of their thought, the tree of life in the midst of the garden. Because they knew this the Lord could cause to spring up in the "ground" of their minds "every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food," and because of it the people of this church — called Adam — could "name" or distinguish the true character of all their experiences, both natural and spiritual. They did not have to study and learn as we do. Their hearts were open to the Lord and He could instruct them by an inner influx — the river of truth, whose four streams watered the four divisions or planes of their minds. We sometimes like to think that we have such inner influx, that we can trust the impulses of our hearts to tell us what is right; but this is not so. We shall see why in our next lesson.

Swedenborg says that the people of this first church had open vision into the spiritual world and scarcely thought about their natural surroundings. This is a very different concept from historians' ideas of the crude and savage beginnings of the human race. Instead, it supports the idea of the "Golden Age" handed down through mythology. It was indeed a "golden" age, the age when men were led by the Lord through love, which gold represents.

But men were not animals, to be governed by unchanging instincts. They were to be free to choose their own way, because only in freedom could they really respond to the Lord's love and be happy. Because they were made in the image and likeness of God, they must be able to think of themselves as independent beings free to choose what they would think and do. The dawning of this sense of individual independence — the proprium, as Swedenborg calls it — is pictured in the story of the creation of Eve. This proprium was a part of the original structure of the human soul, one of the "bones" which protected the very life of the human will and understanding, as the ribs protect the hearts and lungs of the physical body. But man must become conscious of it, and see it as beautiful and necessary to his happiness and usefulness. It is the feeling of our own separate existence as individuals, of our own independence, which is the basis of our free choice of right or wrong. We must be able to look at ourselves objectively, to see ourselves in relation to other men and to the Lord. We must feel our thoughts and decisions to be our own. So, if we think justly and choose rightly, we can come more and more into the image and likeness of our heavenly Father. In the story Eve was created in the Garden of Eden because this faculty is part of our true human nature and capable of heavenly usefulness.

There is also, of course, the lesson in this story that true marriage is ordained by the Lord for the purpose of taking our thoughts out of ourselves and centering them on another. The Lord saw that it was "not good that the man should be alone." The complete "man," as Swedenborg saw in the other world, is not a man or woman but a married pair. Marriage is the highest and most sacred relationship into which we can enter. But the basis of a happy marriage is belief in the Lord and the desire and effort to learn His will and do it together. And a true marriage is eternal. We should all want such a marriage and be careful to do nothing which will unfit us for one.

