
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The teacher will probably have to choose which of the topics covered in this chapter will be most helpful to his particular class for discussion. They are all vital questions: the spiritual meaning of blindness, the cause of afflictions, the necessity of belief in the Lord, and our responsibility for our choice.

---
The fact that this miracle and its consequences are described in so much detail suggests that the lessons it teaches are complex and far-reaching. We realize the truth of this even in reading the first three verses of the chapter. Here was a man born blind. Why? People are always asking why afflictions are permitted, especially to those apparently innocent. Many, contemplating the evils and the sorrows of the world, are tempted to deny the existence of a loving God. Others, like the disciples in the story, believing in God, can find no other explanation for afflictions than that they are the direct or indirect punishment for sin; they are merely in doubt as to whether the blame belongs to the individual or to his environment. But the Lord tells us: "Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him." In the letter this points to the fact that the history of this man, as of all the people of that day, had been so guided by divine providence that the account of his healing might serve as a lesson to all future generations. But there is a deeper and more universal meaning than this. No one is held responsible for the evil tendencies which he inherits or for the falsities in which he is brought up. The conditions in which he is born, the circumstances by which he is surrounded are but the setting of his life work. Afflictions, like any other circumstances, are opportunities for the development of character - "that the works of God should be made manifest." We are individually responsible for what we do with the opportunities given us, for acknowledging and struggling against the evil tendencies in our hearts and for accepting the truth and following it as fast as we see it.

The character of the man of our story appears clearly to us as we read the chapter, but the Lord knew it before He performed the miracle. The very first verse reads, "And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth." Whenever we read that the Lord "saw," we know that it means that He saw the heart and mind as well as the outward condition. He saw in the blind man the humility and goodness and the desire for truth which would make it possible for him to see. His affliction had made him humble and gentle instead of proud and stiff-necked like the Pharisees. In John 6:29 we read: "This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent." The heart of the blind man was in a state open to belief; so the "works of God" could be made manifest in him. This is the object of everything which the Lord permits to come into our lives. Divine providence watches over us at every turn, seeking to check us when we are going in the wrong way, to show us our evils and our weakness, and to open our hearts and minds to Christ's way as the only way of happiness.

Blindness represents ignorance. We use the word in this way today — it is one of the simplest correspondences to illustrate. For example, we say "I see," when we mean, "I understand." We say "How blind I have been!" when we have been ignorant of the course of events leading up to a given circumstance. We call a person "short-sighted" when he is ignorant of the consequences which are likely to follow a particular course of action. The man of our story had been blind from birth. This makes him a picture of one ignorant of spiritual truth, not from any unwillingness or laziness of his own, but because he has never had an opportunity to learn. In performing this miracle the Lord made use of three things: clay representing good — the "good ground" of the parable of the sower - which the Lord saw in the man's heart; saliva, water from the Lord's own mouth, representing a divine truth expressed in a form adapted to the external states of men, "truths from the sense of the letter of the Word" (@AE 239[19]); and the pool of Siloam in which the man washed off the clay representing the removal of false ideas by means of truth from the letter of the Word. This pool, like the pool of Bethesda, pictures the knowledge of the letter of the Word which we have stored up in our minds. It was at that time pure, fresh spring water and part of the water supply of Jerusalem, a symbol of the knowledge of the letter of the Word cleansing and satisfying the Holy City of the soul. Such knowledge, as we have seen before, is stored up by the Lord in each one of us, but one who has not had true spiritual instruction may not recognize its use and value; he may think of it as mere man-made morality and not connect it with the Lord and heaven. Until we make a living contact with the Lord and begin to set our lives in order according to the Word because He commands it, we remain spiritually blind. But once we begin to see, our experience leads to certainty.

The rest of the story shows in a wonderful way this development of belief. In the first place nothing that the Pharisees could say could outweigh the man's experience. They sought first to deny the fact of the miracle. Then they tried to discredit the means by which it was performed. And finally they called the man an ignorant sinner, and cast him out. The modern Pharisee is equally impervious to truth. When he comes in contact with one who has had a deep spiritual experience, he first tries to disprove it, then to "explain" it by natural or by unworthy causes, and finally he dismisses it altogether by calling the person a fool. He refuses to see the truth simply because he does not want to see it. But the man in our story was not to be shaken. He had his experience. He knew what he had been and what he was now: "One thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see." When one's eyes have been opened by experience to see spiritual truth, one knows its reality, and this knowledge gives him the power to penetrate the shallowness of the arguments which would reduce his experience to a mere natural occurrence.

Moreover, opposition served to clarify the man's own understanding of his experience and finally led him to recognize its true source. We find that he first spoke of the Lord as "a man that is called Jesus." But the questions of the Pharisees made him consider seriously who this man was, and presently he said of Him, "He is a prophet." Then as the Pharisees tried to discredit the Lord, the man saw more and more clearly that He was from heaven, and finally, when He again appeared, the man needed only His own assurance that He was the Son of God, "And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him."

The same can be true with us, once we have had a real experience of the illuminating power of the Word. Opposition — whether from other people or from worldly reasonings in our own minds, which are also "Pharisees" — merely serves to stimulate and to clarify our thought about our experiences, and ultimately we accept the Lord as God with us. People today often start with the idea that Jesus was a man like other men, but if they continue to study His teachings with a desire to learn how to live, they are inevitably led to recognize Him first as a prophet, then as in some way divine, and finally as God Himself. Men today who, like the Pharisees, are unwilling at heart to recognize any authority higher than themselves treat the record of the Lord's life and teachings just as the Pharisees themselves treated the Lord and His work, although many of them claim to be followers of truth, just as the Pharisees claimed to be disciples of Moses. Of all such professed followers of the truth who reject the Lord from pride and self-will He says: "If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth."

