
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a good lesson through which to teach the Juniors the importance of being honest with themselves and recognizing the folly of the "know-it—all" attitude into which children of this age so often begin to slip. The open mind and the humble heart and the sincere effort to learn more and more all the time about what is right should be presented as essential virtues.

---
In our lesson for today the Lord had come to Jerusalem again, this time for the feast of tabernacles, the harvest feast. He had been teaching in the temple and arguing with His enemies and, as usual, the argument ended by their trying to destroy Him, this time by casting stones at Him. But, as on several other occasions, they had no power to injure Him because His work in the world was not finished. The last verse of chapter 8 [John 8:59] says: "Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by."

As He passed by, whom did He see?

What did His disciples ask?

What did He answer?

There is a very important lesson for us here. Some people think that all sicknesses and misfortunes are the direct result of sin. Here the Lord teaches us that this is not necessarily true. Sometimes they are. For example, when we overeat, we may be sick as a direct result. But many good people have sicknesses for which neither they nor their parents are to blame. The Lord tells us the reason: "that the works of God should be made manifest." No sickness or misfortune is ever permitted by the Lord to come to a person unless the Lord sees that it can be the means of leading to good for him and for others. Many people have become great through their efforts to rise above physical handicaps, people who might otherwise have settled down into very ordinary lives. An invalid who is patient and cheerful and interested in other people's problems often becomes the friend and counselor of many well people.

In the case of the man in our chapter, the Lord used his affliction to teach the world deep lessons, which we all need. He healed this man, as He healed many others, and when you are older you will study the spiritual meaning of the details of this particular miracle. But some of the lessons which resulted from the healing you can understand now.

On what day of the week did this healing take place?

What did the Pharisees decide from this?

Whom did they ask to confirm the miracle?

Why were the man's parents afraid to speak up for the Lord? Why was the man himself not afraid?

What argument did he use?

What did they do to him?

What did the Lord tell him about Himself?

What did the man do then?

The last three verses of our chapter help us to understand what was behind this argument between the man and the Pharisees, and also what is meant by blindness. This is one of the places in the Bible where the internal or spiritual sense comes out into the letter. In fact we should know from our common speech that blindness pictures ignorance of the truth, for we often say a person is blind when we are not talking about physical sight at all, and we all say "I see," when we mean "I understand."

The scribes and Pharisees were proud of their possession of the Scriptures. They claimed to understand them and to be the only ones who could tell others what the Scriptures taught. But when the Lord faced them with things in the Scriptures which they did not want to obey, they refused to look at the truth. The Lord always spoke the truth of the Scriptures because, as we have seen, He was the Word made flesh. So all His life and teaching came as a judgment, "that they which see not might see: and that they which see might be made blind." Those whose sight He opened to see the truth were people like the blind man in our story, who were willing to accept and obey the truth when it was shown them. And those who were made blind by His coming were those who pretended to understand more than others but who closed their minds against any truth which condemned their selfish ways.

We should remember this lesson whenever we are listening to advice or correction. We, too, often try to close our eyes to unwelcome truth about ourselves.

