
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This can be made a very important lesson for the Seniors if it helps them to recognize and reject the tendency to "brush off" truth which they do not want to obey. It will also help them to understand some of the trends in the world they are about to enter.

---
One of the things Swedenborg tells us about the Word is that it is like a man clothed, but with his face and hands bare [@DSS 55]. This means that although for the most part the letter of the Word conceals rather than reveals the internal meaning, there are enough places in it where the internal clearly appears so that anyone approaching it with a genuine desire for the Lord's instruction will see its quality and find in it strength and help. Our chapter for today is one of the "bare" passages. This does not mean that there are not depths of meaning in it which cannot be seen on the surface, but it does mean that no one who reads it with an open mind can fail to see some of its spiritual application.

The key to this spiritual meaning is found in the last three verses of the chapter, which show us clearly that the blindness with which the Lord is really concerned is not physical but spiritual blindness, blindness to divine truth. If we study the chapter with this in mind, we shall find several deep and important lessons in it.

The man in the story had been blind from birth. He represents those who for one reason or another have never had an opportunity to learn and understand divine truth. The question of the disciples and the Lord's answer in John 9:2-5 help our thinking about all the trials and handicaps which come to good people. The Christian Church over the centuries developed some terrible doctrines which are here plainly shown to be false: the doctrine of "original sin," for example, which declares that the sin of Adam is imputed to all his descendants and can be removed only by the sacrament of baptism, so that all infants who die without being baptized as well as all people in the world of other than the Christian faith are condemned to hell after death. The Lord said that no blame attached to the man because of his blindness.

The Lord's method of giving the man his sight is explained in the passage from the writings at the end of this lesson. You will understand it if you think of the attitude of the man after his healing in comparison with the attitude of his neighbors, his parents, other people, and finally the Pharisees. The man himself knew what had happened to him and was honest enough to face the facts squarely and brave enough to stand by his new knowledge whatever the consequences to himself might be. It is only such people who can be shown divine truth — who can really see it. Follow the man through the chapter and see how his understanding grew and deepened. First he said, "I am he." He realized that this thing had really happened to him, that he was the same person who had so short a time before been blind and hopeless. Then he said, "a man named Jesus" had healed him. He knew only the Lord's name and thought of Him as merely a stranger passing by. Then, as the questioning set him thinking of the nature of what had happened to him, he realized that this was no ordinary man, and he said, "He is a prophet." Goaded further, he became confirmed in the belief that the power could have come only from God, and he dared to use the very teachings of the Scriptures to contradict the judgment of the Pharisees (John 9:30-33). So they put him out of the synagogue — excommunicated him — and then, freed from the last vestige of control by the falsities in which he had been brought up, he found himself again in the presence of the Lord, the Lord told him who He really was, and the man said, "Lord, I believe." And he worshiped him. Here, you see, was a Jew to whom the Lord was able to make the same clear declaration of His deity which He had made to the Gentile Samaritan woman. But the man had to break with the synagogue first. Read here Matthew 9:16-17.

With this history in mind go back to the Lord's answer to the disciples in John 9:3: "Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him"; then note something which the Lord had previously said to the people when they asked Him: "What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?" His answer was, "This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent." All the trials and afflictions which come to good people are permitted by the Lord because He sees that meeting them will bring these particular individuals into states of humility and trust which not only will enable Him to help them but will also enable them to believe in Him more deeply and intelligently.

Now consider the states of the others in this story. Even some of the man's neighbors who had seen him daily preferred to imagine that this man who could see must be someone else. His own parents, who could not deny his identity or the facts in the case, were afraid to face these facts and reshape their lives according to them. And the others, when they found that they could not deny the facts, chose to attribute the Lord's power to the devil, just as they had once before (Matthew 12:24).

So the lesson of the chapter is summed up at the end. The judgment which the coming of the Lord brought to the world was not a judgment imposed on men by Him. It was a new revelation of divine truth on the most external level, so that anyone who really wanted the truth could see it. Those who did not want any truth which they found inconvenient to accept were free to reject it, but in rejecting it they rejected the Lord and condemned themselves. Read John 3:19. As you face your life in the adult world, this is the choice which is offered you. The Lord has given us the truth and has shown us plainly the consequences of both choices. Each of us has to decide for himself whether to believe the Lord or to believe only what suits one's own selfish convenience.

