
=== Adult

This story in its internal meaning connects with the experience of all of us. Cover the story and its interpretation briefly. Then read Judges 17:6, pointing out that this is the keynote of the period of the Judges, and base the discussion on the danger of thinking we know what is right without constant study of the Word in the light of the writings. Too many people even to old age remain in the period of the Judges as to their spiritual life. They recognize the necessity of constant study in connection with their business or profession and, in the case of housewives, of learning new methods and new recipes, but in their religious life they are content with a minimum of knowledge.

In Deuteronomy 6:10-12 we read: "And it shall be, when the Lord thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he sware unto they fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities, which thou buildest not, and houses full of all good things, which thou filledst not, and wells digged, which thou diggedst not, vineyards and olive trees, which thou plantedst not; when thou shalt have eaten and be full; then beware lest thou forget the Lord, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage."

The time of the Judges is the time foretold in these verses. The children of Israel have come into the land promised to their fathers, and through the power of the Lord have taken possession of it. Their conquests under Joshua were sufficient to give them peace for a time, freedom to settle down in homes and enjoy the fruits of the land. This was the reward to which they had been looking forward, and in their enjoyment of it they fell into just the temptation which the Lord had prophesied. So long as Joshua lived or any of the elders who had been eyewitnesses of the miracles which the Lord had performed for their salvation, they remained faithful, but as soon as these were gone, they began to mingle with the evil people of the land, to intermarry with them, and finally to worship their idols.

This is a picture of a temptation which comes to every regenerating man and woman. Our first efforts to lead a spiritual life have a certain zeal which carries us along. Joshua — the truth fighting — is alive in us, our leader; the many instances in which the Lord has helped us in temptation are fresh in our memories. Then we gain a measure of victory; we taste the satisfaction of living from spiritual motives; we feel that we are settled in the right way and may relax our vigilance. We forget that we have not completely destroyed the enemies we have been fighting, but have merely put them to tribute. And while we rest on our laurels, confident in our new—found security and peace, these enemies begin to stir again and to gain strength. We feel so sure that we have mastered them that we allow ourselves to yield a little here and there to the old uncharitable feelings, to compromise with the worldly reasonings; and presently we are setting up instead of the Lord our God the very idols which the world about us worships — success, pleasure, money, power.

This is the period of the Judges. We go along about so far and then we wake to the fact that we have fallen prey to some enemy we thought we had crushed. We struggle against it for a time in vain and then, when we have realized our weakness, the Lord recalls to our mind the needed truth which alone can save us from this particular temptation; this is the Judge raised up. Under its leadership we conquer, and again have peace for a time until some other slumbering foe awakes, gains strength, and masters us.

So long as we are in this world, we never gain a complete victory. Indeed some of our evil tendencies we can never destroy, although in the other life the Lord will keep them quiescent for us and we shall not have to struggle against them. In Judges 2:22 we have the reason given why enemies were allowed to remain in the Holy Land: "That through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of the Lord to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not." It is through victory in temptations that we gain strength of character. In Psalm 55:19 it is said of the wicked, "Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God." Our souls grow strong by exercise just as our bodies do. When we are tempted, our weaknesses come to light and we can seek the Lord's help to overcome them. Swedenborg agrees with the apostle Paul that the Lord never permits us to be tempted beyond our strength (1 Corinthians 10:13), and further tells us that those who have no temptations are kept from them because the Lord sees that they would not resist them. We should look upon our temptations as opportunities to gain strength of character, and we should not be discouraged because as we grow older we see deeper and deeper evils in ourselves.

Swedenborg does not tell us much directly about this battle between Deborah and Barak on the one hand and Sisera on the other. In @AE 447[4] he says that it represents the "combat of truth from good against falsity from evil," and in @AE 434[13] he says that Sisera represents "falsity from evil destroying the church." The enemies in the north were falsities in the understanding. These falsities crop up again and again in one form or another and often gain control of us before we realize it. Take, for example, the falsity that we do not need to go to church. This is a very obvious falsity to anyone who has acquired the habit of church attendance. But even such a person may perhaps move away from the church he loves. He does not immediately decide what church to attend, or he attends one and does not like it. He says, "It irritates me to hear preaching which does not agree with my belief and so it does me no good to go to church." Another may say, "I have to work hard all week and I need to sleep or to be out of doors on Sunday in order to do my work properly." What we actually mean is that other things are really more important than going to church, that we can get along without it. In our story Deborah is the Judge. She was a prophetess and lived "under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel." We are told that Ramah represents the things which belong to spiritual truth from the celestial, and that Bethel represents knowledges of internal things. The palm tree is the symbol of the principle that the Lord is our Savior. Thus all that we know of Deborah points to the fact that she represents our affection for inner, spiritual truths which look to the Lord as our Savior. This is indeed the affection which leads us to fight against falsities. The military leader, however, and the two tribes chosen to furnish the fighting men are from the north, truths in the understanding which can most easily meet the attacking falsities.

The death of Sisera at the hands of Jael is one of the striking and terrible pictures from the letter of the Word such as the old painters used to love to portray. It is also one of the stumbling blocks to those who see nothing but the literal sense. In the song of Deborah in chapter 5, Jael is represented as blessed above women and the details of her deed are rehearsed with seeming delight. The Lord does not commend nor offer us as examples to be followed the cruel practices of a cruel day. Swedenborg tells us that He purposely spoke through people who had departed farthest from Him so that the letter of His Word might reach men in their lowest states. There are always people who need to be reached through fear — shocked into thinking — and we all have states in which this is true of us. But for our higher states there is the internal sense. Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, a descendant of the priest of Midian who was the father-in-law of Moses, pictures an affection surviving from our childhood states even in the midst of falsity. In the example we have used, this final blow may well be given by some Jael in us, perhaps the remains of our childhood affection for going to church and Sunday school. Since a tent represents what is holy, the tent peg would be some particular truth which has served to anchor this general state of holiness to the earth of good living, such as one of the commandments or some other verse we have learned in childhood. And the blow is struck in a quiet moment when the threatening falsity has been temporarily lulled to sleep. If we can form the habit of always thinking of the enemies in the letter of the Word as evils and falsities within ourselves, the stories of battle and conquest, of extermination of the enemy and destroying his cities will not only cease to trouble our modern civilized attitude toward violence, but they will offer us specific instruction and help in meeting our temptations and overcoming them.

