
=== Adult

The question of the origin of evil and the decline of the human race will furnish ample discussion material. The temptation of the serpent in our modern world is a powerful force for evil.

The serpent is the symbol of the sensuous part of man. If we think a little, we can see that there is a mental as well as a physical basis in each of the five senses. For example, when we are absorbed in a book, someone may speak to us several times without being heard. There is nothing the matter with our ears, but our consciousness is temporarily withdrawn from the sense plane. We are living in another world. The sensuous plane of our mind is closed for the time being. So we may walk along the street thinking so hard that we pass a close friend without seeing him, although we look right at him. In times of great excitement people can injure themselves severely and feel no pain until the excitement is past. So we can see that there is actually a distinct plane of our mind that is in contact with the natural world through the five senses. This is what Swedenborg calls the "sensuous" part of man (meaning simply that which pertains to sense impressions rather than thoughts) and what is signified by the serpent. The sensuous part is necessary to us. We could not live in this world without it. But it is meant to be merely the servant of the higher planes of our minds. The serpent has a good as well as an evil correspondence. The Lord said to His apostles, "Be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves" (Matthew 10:16). This means to take advantage of all the knowledge which comes to us through our senses, but to use it always for good and never for harm to ourselves or anyone else. And we remember that when the children of Israel were going through the wilderness and were plagued by fiery serpents because of their lust and disobedience, Moses was told to make a serpent of bronze and raise it up on a pole, and those who looked at it were healed. The serpent of bronze was the symbol of sensuous things turned to good use. Later, when this bronze serpent became an object of worship in itself, Hezekiah destroyed it because it was leading people away from the worship of the Lord, as today the doctrine that goodness is in external good works leads people to think it is not particularly important to go to church or to learn about the Lord. When the Lord was in the world, He likened His own human nature to this serpent of bronze lifted up.

But the serpent, as our lesson says, is "more subtle than any beast of the field." Our senses are constantly bringing us impressions and appealing to us in many ways at once. Many of the things they bring us are delightful — the beauties of nature, music, odors, flavors, caresses. It is very easy to come to depend upon them and to refuse to believe anything which our senses do not confirm, and thus to look to ourselves for knowledge and power instead of to the Lord. This is the temptation of the serpent, first to the woman — our affections — and then through the woman to the man — our intellect. Pleasures of the senses first appeal to us because they are delightful, and then our minds begin to think up reasons why we should indulge in them; and if there is a command of the Lord which forbids them, we refuse to believe the Lord or that any evil can come because of our indulgence. So in the story the serpent first put doubt in the woman's mind of the truth of the Lord's words. This is the beginning of all evil — the temptation to reason and judge according to what our senses tell us instead of according to what the Lord has revealed through His Word.

This thought is stated very clearly in @AC 196: "In ancient times those were called 'serpents' who had more confidence in sensuous things than in revealed ones. But it is still worse at the present day, for now there are persons who not only disbelieve everything they cannot see and feel, but who also confirm themselves in such incredulity by knowledges [scientifica] unknown to the ancients, and thus occasion in themselves a far greater degree of blindness."

If we think of our sense life as the important thing, we shall lose sight of the true meaning which only knowledge of the Lord and of heavenly things can give to it. That the ancient people began to reason from nature to God instead of from God to nature and to refuse to believe what they could not confirm by their senses is meant by their eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. In this way they gradually lost that immediate perception of the truth which the celestial people had, but they did not lose it all at once. They retained enough of it to know that they were doing wrong — to recognize their evil state. This is pictured by verse 7, the fact that they knew that they were naked. Here is introduced another correspondence which we should note: the fig, symbolic of "natural goodness," the kindly feelings and thoughts which even the most worldly people may have. How often when we recognize some serious fault in ourselves, we try to cover it up in our own minds by recalling our "good deeds." These thoughts about natural goodness are the fig leaves with which Adam and Eve tried to cover themselves. Garments correspond to truths and nakedness to lack of truth. We may recall here that Hezekiah's boil was cured by a lump of figs and that the Lord condemned a fig tree which bore no fruit. These are stories which teach the necessity of kind, neighborly living. But we must not think that natural kindliness will excuse a lack of acceptance of truth from the Lord. Without a desire for truth from the Lord natural kindliness and good works are self-righteous and not genuinely good at all. Read Revelation 3:14-18.

In the study of the punishment meted out to the serpent, the woman, and the man, we have our first introduction to the "doctrine of appearances." The Lord is perfect love. He never punishes. Yet throughout the Word He is frequently said to be angry, to be jealous; to take revenge, to curse, to punish, etc. This is because the Lord had to write the Word by means of men and in terms which they would understand, and so the truth often takes the form in which it appears to men, and when men are in evil states, the truth appears to punish them. In the same way, to a child bent on having his own way his parents' efforts to turn him into the right way seem harsh and cruel. The punishments which the Lord is said to mete out are inherent in the evils committed. So the sensuous part of man, when it leads man away from the Lord, is condemned to go on its belly and eat dust — that is, to see only the things of the earth and to feed on dead things. This is just what our senses do when we trust in them instead of in the Lord's revealed truth. The woman is told: "In sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee." We remember that the woman pictures our own will and that the first people, whose affections were centered in the Lord, could be taught immediately through them. But when the affections became centered in the world and in self, they could not bring forth any truth or good except by bitter experience of evil and punishment. The birth of children in the Word always pictures in a good sense the bringing forth of truths and goods. And the man is told that the ground is cursed for his sake and will bring forth thorns and thistles. The mind of the self-centered man is full of false ideas which plague him and make it difficult for him to find the truth, and so he finds it hard to nourish his soul: "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." Finally they are cast out of the garden, and cherubim with a flaming sword are placed at its entrance "to keep the way of the tree of life." The cherubim throughout the Word are the symbol of the Divine Providence protecting — in this case protecting men from profaning the highest things of their nature. The sword in the Scriptures is either truth or falsity used as a weapon. When a person persistently refuses to live according to a truth which he knows, the belief that it is the truth is finally taken away from him so that he may not go further into a state of willful disobedience. 

