
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The special lesson for this age group is the general correspondence of the Garden of Eden, the two trees, and the serpent. Point out to the class that these first chapters of the Bible treat of the early spiritual history of the human race and also of our individual spiritual development.

---
Plants represent thoughts, or things of the mind, and animals things of the heart or will. Trees represent great general principles. After the first people had been developed into a church, according to the process we studied in the first chapter of Genesis, their state is described as the beautiful Garden of Eden about which chapter 2 tells us. There were all kinds of trees in this garden, but there were two principal ones, the tree of life and the tree of knowledge of good and evil. The tree of life pictures the great general principle that everything lives from the Lord and that all wisdom and goodness come from Him. Read Genesis 2:9, 17 and then Genesis 3:3 to see what change had taken place in the state of mankind by the time of the beginning of our lesson for today. The tree of life is no longer in the center of the garden. This means that people were losing their feeling that all they had came from the Lord. The tree of knowledge of good and evil is the principle that we of ourselves know what is right and wrong and do not need to look to the Lord for knowledge. We often hear people say, "If I do what I think is right, that is all that can be expected of me."

The serpent, like all other members of the animal kingdom, represents an affection. It is the affection for sense pleasures, eating, drinking, dressing well, dancing, movies, sports, having fun. It is a good and useful affection in its place, but it may easily lead us astray.

Things we have been told not to do often look pleasant and harmless. We tell ourselves that we know what is good for us better than our parents — or even the Lord — and that we can do these things without any harm. This is the serpent saying to Eve, "Ye shall not surely die." He spoke to Eve because Eve pictures our will, and it is our will which is tempted. Later we think out arguments to prove that we are right; this is Adam receiving the fruit from Eve and eating it. We soon find out how little we really know. This is Adam and Eve discovering that they are naked. [Read Revelation 3:17-18.] But instead of turning back to trust in the Lord, we excuse ourselves by pointing to our good deeds. The fig leaves are such thoughts about our natural goodness. We say, "After all, no one can be expected to be perfect, and I'm pretty good most of the time."

Once we have begun to believe that we can decide for ourselves without the Lord, we have lost the beautiful inner life of innocence and trust with which we started life. This is the death of which the Lord had warned Adam and Eve, and it is pictured by their being driven out of the garden. When we begin to look to self instead of to the Lord, we get into all kinds of trouble. The thorns and thistles of false thoughts spring up in our minds and we have to work hard for what goodness we can acquire. The Lord, when He was in the world, said, "My yoke is easy, and my burden is light." His way is really always the easy way, if we would only believe it. The curses on Adam and Eve picture the natural result of trying to go our own way — it becomes harder and harder for us to do right even when we see what is right.

Read carefully the serpent's punishment (Genesis 3:14) and see how true a picture it is of our love of the pleasures of the senses. They never really rise higher than the things of this world and they live on "dust."

Only one Person, the Lord Himself, has ever wholly overcome the temptations pictured by the serpent. Verse 15 is the first prophecy of His coming. It means that a time would come when a child would be born into the world who would feel all the temptations of the senses — the serpent would bite his heel — but would always say no to them — He would bruise the serpent's head. The head is the governing principle of a thing, and the Lord put the principle of pleasure-seeking under His foot, where it belongs. Read the story of Moses and the bronze serpent in Numbers 21:4-9 and the reference to it in John 3:14-15. The serpents which bit the children of Israel in the wilderness were their appetites for sense satisfaction. The serpent of bronze pictures the right use of these appetites. The Lord used His sense life rightly and so lifted it up into a means of saving people. Our senses, like everything else, are given us as means of being useful to the Lord and the neighbor.

When our senses are made a guide, they lead us further and further astray. The serpent of our chapter for today becomes the dragon in the Book of Revelation. If we try to fight our temptations, the Lord and the angels fight with us and help us to overcome them. Read Revelation 12:7-9 and 20:1-3.

Now read verse 24. The cherubim are symbolic figures representing the Lord's protecting power, and the flaming sword is truth inspired by love which protects the good and checks the evil. This is why the sword is two-edged. Read Exodus 25:16-21. The Ten Commandments — which were kept in the ark — are our first and most powerful means of fighting temptation.

