
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Children of this age need to be told that these early chapters of Genesis are symbol stories telling us in figurative terms the great truths which the Lord wants us to know about the beginning of mankind and about how evil came into the world, and also about our own development and how we allow evil to come into our minds and hearts. Study the notes below for suggestions as to how the lesson may be developed.

---
What is the first chapter of the Bible about?

What did the Lord create first?

What did He create last?

In whose image and likeness was man created?

What powers does this give him which animals do not have?

What was man told to do with regard to the earth and everything on it?

What does the word Adam mean?

In the next few chapters of the Bible the first people are spoken of as if they were just one man and woman — Adam and Eve. Eve is another Hebrew word; it means "living." Read verse 20 of our chapter. These first people developed gradually until they became a church, which is called the Most Ancient Church. They were good and innocent, trusting the Lord for everything just as a little baby depends on its parents. The state in which they lived is described in chapter 2 as a beautiful garden called the Garden of Eden, which means the garden of delight. Now read Genesis 2:15-17.

What were Adam and Eve to do in the garden?

What was the one thing they must not do?

Do you always obey your parents?

Can you tell why not? You know that they love you and that what they tell you to do or not to do is always for your good. And you know that when you disobey, you always get into trouble. And yet there just seems to be something in you that always tempts you to do the very thing you have been told not to do. In the story of Adam and Eve this selfish desire to have one's own way is pictured by the serpent.

What did the serpent tell Eve?

What did Eve do?

What did Adam do?

Read Revelation 3:17-18. When the Lord in these verses tells the people that they are naked and need to buy white raiment of Him, He is not speaking of clothing for their physical bodies but of true ideas to clothe their minds. Adam and Eve had listened to the serpent instead of to the Lord. Before that they had known that only the Lord can give us the truth. This is why they are said to have been naked. After they had eaten of the forbidden fruit, they suddenly realized how wrong they had been to disobey the Lord who gave them everything; and they were ashamed, just as you are ashamed after you have disobeyed your parents. And they tried to hide from the Lord just as you try to keep out of your parents' sight for fear they will find out what you have been doing. Sometimes you can hide things from other people but none of us can hide anything from the Lord, because He sees our thoughts and our hearts.

When you are a little older, you will study the meaning of the "curses" on the serpent, the woman, and the man which were pronounced because of their disobedience, but you can understand now that these curses did not really come from the Lord, except in the sense that the Lord in His wisdom created an orderly world in which we may be sure what the results of good or evil actions will be. The curses were the natural results of the disobedience itself. We learned previously that man is made in the image and likeness of God, with the power to reason and to choose what he will do and be. The Lord does everything He can to show us the way to happiness, but He will not make us follow it, because that would take away our human powers. When we choose to disobey, trouble always follows because we are going against the way of happiness. And we are very likely to blame other people instead of ourselves, just as Adam and Eve did.

In the story Adam and Eve had to leave the beautiful garden and work for their food instead of receiving it from the Lord. This means that once men had disobeyed, it began to be harder and harder for them to do right. You know how this is, too. One wrong thing leads to another and you form bad habits which are hard to break. From the time pictured in our story mankind as a whole grew worse and worse, although, as we shall see in an upcoming lesson, there were always a few people who tried to do right.

There are two verses in our lesson which you should notice even though you will not understand them until later. One is Genesis 3:15. This is the first "prophecy of the Advent" which appears in the Word. This means that it foretells that someday a child would be born who would always refuse to do what the serpent suggested and so would stop the long downward trend of mankind. Only the Lord Himself could do this. Then read the last verse of the chapter. You will hear of the cherubim again and you want to remember where in the Bible they first appeared and what they were doing. They are symbolic figures, not actual creatures or people, and they stand for the power of the Lord to protect goodness.

Now let us see if you can think why our desire to do wrong is described as a serpent. What do you mean when you call a person a pig? When you call him a fox? When you call him a lion? All the animals have special characteristics for which they are known. The most ancient people knew what everything in nature represented and they spoke in the language of "correspondences," naming the animal or thing when they meant its special quality. You know how the serpent or snake just slides along the ground and how it slips in and out of hiding, how snakes can "charm" their prey so that it cannot run away, and how a poisonous snake can bite even before you see it. This is just what our lower or "sense" nature does. It clings to the things of the world, not looking up to heaven and the Lord; it holds our attention so that we do not try to escape its reasoning, and it is always hiding in us, trying to "bite" us — to make us believe that the most important thing in the world is to have our own way and get what we want right now. Every time you are tempted to do what you know is wrong, your lower nature is arguing with your higher nature just as the serpent argued with Eve. Eve did not have to listen to the serpent, and neither do you.

