
=== Notes for Parents

The story of the Garden of Eden is familiar to everyone. Before the development of natural science men accepted it as literally true, and the doctrine of "original sin" — the teaching that the sin of Adam was inherited by all his descendants — grew out of this literal acceptance. With greater knowledge of the natural world, however, men began to doubt the early chapters of Genesis. Some discarded them altogether and came to believe that everyone is born good and that a child's early environment is responsible for the bad things that appear in him. Others closed their minds to the findings of science and clung to their belief in the literal stories and in original sin.

But if we see that in these chapters, as we said last week, the Lord is not telling us about the natural history of the world and of man, but about spiritual development, we can understand that these stories are not literal fact and yet are true stories — stories of how the character of the human race developed and changed and how our individual characters develop and change.

If God is pure love and wisdom, as we believe Him to be, how did evil come into the world? Men introduced it themselves by choosing to trust in their own wisdom instead of in the Lord's. Trust in themselves was the tree of knowledge of good and evil whose fruit they had been commanded not to eat. And what made them disobey? The promptings of their own sensuous desires, the same serpent which tempts us today and leads us to sacrifice our higher natures for the sake of the worldly satisfactions we think we want right now. How many times a week do we think — and even say - "I know I shouldn't, but ... "? The story of Adam and Eve and the serpent is as true today as when it was written thousands of years ago.

But why were men created in such a way that they could choose to serve themselves and so become evil? Because freedom to choose is essentially what makes them men and not mere animals. They were made "in the image of God" and must be able to choose freely what they will love and learn and do. There would be no virtue or happiness in doing right if we could do nothing else. We know what happens to a child if his parents never give him an opportunity to learn to use his own judgment. The Lord is a wise parent.

