
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Read the story to the children from the Word (Genesis 3:1-13). If they are old enough to ask whether the story is true, they should be told that it is a parable and that its truth is in its inner meaning. Then remind them that man was told to rule over the lower creatures. Eve let the serpent rule over her instead. Finally talk about the ways in which the children often behave as Adam and Eve did.

---
We have learned about how the Lord made everything in the beginning: the heaven and the earth, the seas, the dry land, the sun, moon, and stars, the fish, birds, and animals, and finally men and women. He gave the men and women a beautiful garden to live in called the Garden of Eden, which was full of all sorts of trees and fruits. In the beginning men and women did not wear clothes at all, because they were just like innocent little babies.

There were two principal trees in the garden. The one in the very center of the garden was called the tree of life, and the other was called the tree of knowledge of good and evil. There was just one thing the Lord told men and women they must not do: they must not eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil. They could eat any of the other fruit they wanted.

Now you know that when your mother tells you there is some one thing you just must not do, very often something inside you starts right in urging you to do it. In our chapter for today the Lord tells us a story about what the first men and women did. He calls the men Adam and the women Eve. As you listen to the story, you will see that the thing which makes people want to do what they know they should not do is called the serpent. A serpent is a snake. Did you ever see a snake creep out from where it had been hiding? Our desire to do as we please instead of thinking what is right is just like a snake always hiding in our hearts. [Read Genesis 3:1-13.]

Don't you think the first people were very foolish to disobey the Lord when He had given them all that they could possibly need to make them happy? They had to leave the beautiful garden, and they could never be happy in the same way again.

But we are just as foolish when we do things we have been told not to do. We know that everything goes better for us when we are good and obedient. But deep inside each of us that same serpent is hiding, waiting for a chance to tempt us to disobey, and he is very clever at arguments.

Adam and Eve had to leave the beautiful garden.

When we insist on having our own way, we lose many good things we might have had.

How did the Lord guard the way to the garden afterward?

