
=== Senior

The problem of the origin of evil in the race and in the individual is the center of this lesson. The Seniors need to be shown clearly the nature of trust in self and the mistakes and suffering to which it leads. They are about to pass from under parental and home influence, and they should be led to feel the need of the Lord's guidance.

---
We have studied the Creation story as it applies to the spiritual development of any individual. This spiritual development is known as regeneration. The inner state of the regenerate man or woman is described in chapter 2 as a garden, the garden of Eden or "delight." The regenerate person is happy because he is not always thinking about himself but trusts wholly in the Lord, knowing that all goodness and truth come from Him alone and that if he obeys the Lord, whatever happens to him will be for his eternal welfare. This principle is pictured by the tree of life which was in the midst of the garden. As we have seen, however, man was to dress and keep the garden and to have dominion over all things in it. That is, the regenerate man must choose to continue to live the spiritual life, keeping his lower desires under control. The first men did not do this, just as none of us fully does it. They developed into a church — the Most Ancient Church — with a very high degree of spiritual life, and then they began to trust in themselves instead of in the Lord. Just in this manner it sometimes happens that a man or woman who has come to believe in the Lord, has set his life in order and perhaps joined the church, begins to think that he has learned enough and can henceforth decide for himself what is right and wrong, true and false.

The chapter we have for today treats of the decline of the Most Ancient Church and of the way in which evil entered the world. From verse 3 we learn that an important change has taken place in the garden. The tree of knowledge of good and evil has taken the place of the tree of life in the center. This tree is the principle that we can distinguish between right and wrong without looking to the Lord for guidance. When once we begin to think of ourselves as independent of the Lord, we tend to believe ourselves to be the source of goodness and truth. The Lord cannot prevent our developing this belief without taking away our freedom; He can only warn us against it. When He says of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, "Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die," He is saying, "Never for a moment admit into your mind the thought that you have goodness and wisdom in yourself, for that is spiritual death."

What is it that tempts us to choose our own guidance? It is first some desire for external satisfaction — the serpent of sense pleasure. It seduces our will — Eve. Here is something I want very much to do. I have been taught that it is wrong and dangerous, but it looks just the opposite to me. I cannot believe that anything so attractive can really be bad. Someone is just trying to keep me from enjoying myself. So our desire, like Eve, passes on the tempting fruit to our reasoning faculty, and both yield.

The immediate result is a sense of our own wrongdoing and an attempt to cover it up with excuses — the fig leaves are thoughts about our own natural goodness. But we are driven out of the garden. We have lost our innocence and trust and all the delights that went with it. Doing right will now be harder for us and we shall constantly have to fight the thorns and thistles of selfish and worldly thinking.

We should note particularly the guard set at the gate of the garden "to keep the way of the tree of life." Throughout the Scriptures cherubim are symbolic figures picturing the protecting power of @DP The sword is the symbol of truth fighting — the flaming sword the truth from Divine Love — one edge condemning evil and the other defending good.

Once our will has developed selfish feelings, the Lord can no longer guide us by means of it. We cannot go back to the garden. We must learn "the hard way." That is, we must come to see for ourselves the unhappy effects of disobedience and make ourselves do right against our will. You may sometimes hear people say of an innocent baby, "I wish he could always stay like this." They do not really mean it, of course, but they dread for their children the hard lessons they must learn. And there is no other way now to spiritual progress. Even though we often choose evil instead of good and suffer for it, we cannot become truly human beings without developing our independent reason and exercising our free choice.

The curses on the serpent, the woman, and the man picture the inevitable results of self-trust and disobedience to the Lord. The story of the human race as we follow it from chapter 2 of Genesis through the Old Testament is one of decline and constant struggle. In the New Church we do not believe in "original sin" in the sense that the sin of Adam and Eve made all people thereafter guilty.

No one is ever born guilty of sin. But tendencies to evil are handed down and, if not checked, increase. Mankind declined spiritually until the time came when no merely human being could resist its temptations. Then the Lord Himself had to come into the world to bruise the serpent's head and turn the tide for us. Verse 15 of our chapter is the first prophecy of the Advent.

