
=== Notes for Parents

Easter is really the most important day in the church year, for although on Christmas we celebrate the Lord's coming into the world to be our savior, on Easter we celebrate not only the completion of the work He came to do but the glorious assurance that He is present with us forever in His divine humanity.

Most of us are familiar with the Easter story. Has anyone ever said to you, "How do we know there is another life? No one has ever come back to tell us about it"? And if you thought to answer, "The Lord came back and told us," the person may say, "That's what the Bible says, but how do we know it's true?" We need to have the answer ready for that one, too. When the Lord was crucified, all His disciples — even the closest ones — thought everything was over, that they had made a mistake, that Jesus could not have been what He claimed to be. Some of them lingered in Jerusalem talking it over. Others went back immediately to their former occupations. If the resurrection had not taken place, they would have had no Gospel to preach and there would have been no Christian Church to change the whole course of history. It is as simple as that.

The resurrection itself changed history, and belief in it — real belief — changes the life of the person who believes. For it involves the acknowledgment that Jesus Christ was what He claimed to be: "the resurrection and the life," "the way, the truth, and the life," the heavenly Father revealing Himself to men. It means that it is God Himself who speaks to us in the Gospels and in the Word of the Old Testament, too, which He said taught of Him. It means, therefore, that it is our highest duty and privilege, as men and women, to read and study the Word and to try to form our lives on the pattern He gives us there. It means not only that death is not to be feared, but that it is the gateway to our real life and that our life in this world — whether long or short — is merely our beginning and our early school, our opportunity to learn how to live.

When we see this, we are like the disciples meeting the risen Lord on the mountain in Galilee. The whole plane of our thinking is lifted above worldly and selfish considerations. We breathe a purer air and we see our life in this world spread out before us in its true proportions and relations under the sun of heaven. Our difficulties and trials, which loomed so large in our former thought, now look small, and the lovely scenes that always lie beyond them appear.

The Lord says to us on Easter day, as He said to the disciples on the mountain in Galilee: "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth" and "Lo, I am with you all the days, even to the consummation of the age." The Lord is always with us, closer than any earthly friend, with power to enable us to overcome our temptations, to meet all our trials as opportunities for spiritual growth, to bring comfort and help to those around us, and so to become children of our heavenly Father and inheritors of the kingdom of heaven.

