
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Note that the events of our lesson took place when the Israelites were in their final encampment near the Jordan. Then perhaps begin with the point made in the final paragraph of the Adult notes. The most important discussion topics are the way in which divine providence warns us, and hinders but does not force us to discontinue a wrong course, and the safety which comes with the proper ordering of our lives around worship of the Lord and in accordance with the commandments of His Word.

---
The story of Balaam contains a great many things of interest. In popular thought the incident of the donkey has come to seem the principal part of the story, but it is merely preparatory to the real lesson.

First we should note that Israel has completed the wilderness journey and is encamped "in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho." Balak, king of Moab, is afraid of the consequences of their coming, but he knows that the Lord is with them and that he cannot hope to conquer them by force. So he turns to sorcery and sends far away to the east for the famous wizard Balaam to come and curse Israel for him. Moab in a good sense represents natural good, a kinsman of Israel, whom Israel was commanded not to injure. But this Moab, when it sets itself up against the higher things of the spirit, represents the adulteration of good. Many today exalt natural goodness, saying that it is not necessary to worship the Lord or even to acknowledge Him if only one lives a life of neighborly kindness, enters into reform movements, gives to charitable causes, etc. This thought is expressed frequently by the misleading half—truth: "There are better people outside the church than many in it." This points to another and more subtle form of the same general thought — religious hypocrisy. of such people Swedenborg says: "They are, in general, those who are in external worship, which appears in some respects holy; but not in internal worship; and who seize upon as goods and truths the things which are of external worship, but reject and despise the things of internal worship" (@AC 2468). Later in the same number he says: "They who are in such good, care for external things only, and despise, reject, and indeed spew out the internal things of worship and doctrine." It is fitting that Balak should send for Balaam, for Balaam is the symbol of hypocrisy.

It is not easy to see this hypocrisy at first in the story, for one is impressed with Balaam's frequent declaration that he can speak only what the Lord gives him to speak. But it appears clearly later in his persistent attempt to satisfy Balak and win the rewards offered, and it is also stated in Revelation 2:14 where Balaam is named as the one who taught Balak how to lead the children of Israel astray. In interpreting this verse (@AR 114, @AE 140), Swedenborg tells interesting things of Balaam. He came from Aram, or Syria, also called Mesopotamia, where there existed remains of knowledge from the Ancient Word, which included a considerable knowledge of correspondences. Among the good, this knowledge was cherished; it culminated in the visit of the Wise Men to Bethlehem to find the newborn King. Among the evil, it was turned to sorcery and magic, as with Balaam. Even the evil, however, recognized that they could accomplish nothing by their own power, but only by the Lord's power working through the correspondences which they knew. It was this knowledge or correspondence which taught Balaam to instruct Balak to build seven altars and to sacrifice a bullock and a ram on each. And it was this knowledge in Balaam's mind through which the Lord could speak to him even to the point of enabling him to prophesy. We should note especially the wonderful prophecy in Numbers 24:17, referring to the Lord's Advent. The Star stands for the Lord as truth and the Sceptre the Lord as King: the smiting of the corners of Moab and the destruction of the children of Sheth show the Lord's complete conquest of evil and falsity in the natural man.

In general, the attempt of Balak with Balaam's help to undermine and overthrow Israel after they had reached the very border of the Promised Land pictures the last stand of the rebellious natural man against the spiritual. Even when we have fulfilled the requirements of the period of external reformation, have set our lives in order from the principle of obedience to the Lord, and are all ready to take the final step which will establish the spiritual principle within us and make us "at home" in heavenly living, friends instead of mere servants of the Lord ... even then all that is earthly and natural in our minds rises up and conspires to undermine our resolution, even attempting to draw arguments from the Word itself to confirm the superiority of external over internal living. Witness the cry for "practical" Christianity. The loaves and fishes were not the real blessings which the Lord sought to give to men.

The story of Balaam and the donkey is a wonderful picture of the Lord's providence over us when we are intent on doing evil. There is first the voice of conscience telling us that what we purpose to do is not the Lord's will: "And God came unto Balaam, and said." There is the second warning: "And God came unto Balaam at night and said unto him." But if we still wish to do wrong, the Lord permits us to go our way. He follows us, however, and puts obstacles in our path which appeal to our lower minds, since we have closed our higher selves to His counsel. The donkey represents the natural reason. From merely natural considerations it becomes increasingly evident to us that what we are planning to do will get us into difficulties: we even experience some of these difficulties, as Balaam's foot was crushed against the wall. Three times the angel appeared to the donkey and checked Balaam's journey. The Lord leaves nothing undone which will show us the folly of pursuing our own way. The donkey of course did not speak, but the Lord spoke to Balaam through the mouth of the donkey as a symbol of the appeal of His truth to our natural reason. When Balaam finally listened to this voice, his spiritual eyes could be opened to see the angel in the way.

In spite of all warnings Balaam went his way and made his three attempts to curse Israel. But when he looked upon the encampment of Israel — in one case even upon a small portion of the camp — the curse which he intended was turned into a blessing. This was because the encampment of Israel — with the tabernacle in the center and each tribe in its assigned place with reference to it — was according to the order prescribed by the Lord. It represents a life organized according to heavenly order, with worship of the Lord at the center and all our affections and thoughts kept in their proper relation to this center. Balaam could not curse a people so encamped. If our lives are organized according to this divine pattern, no outside cause can prevent our entering the Holy Land of spiritual living in this world or the next. We may be severely tempted and may yield here and there (Revelation 2:14), but we shall be given light to see the evil and to stamp it out, as the Israelites finally destroyed Balaam (Numbers 31:8). A good man whose inmost desire is to know and serve the Lord may be deceived from time to time by false prophets and may fall here and there into external evils, but the Lord's power is with him and will eventually give him light to see and strength to overcome.

We need to be deeply impressed with the power and beauty of this story of Balaam in its internal sense, because it is one of the stories often held up to ridicule by those who choose to think of the Bible as a man-made book. If we can realize what a tragedy it is to stop in the letter of the story and thus make it a means of discrediting the Word and cutting oneself and others off from the possibility of being reached through it by the Lord, we may be emboldened to speak out against such profanation and so help others to a truer appreciation of what the Lord has for them in the Word.

