
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the donkey should be stressed with this class. Call attention to the similarity of the meaning of Ishmael and the donkey, and tell them that Ishmael was called a "wild-donkey man." In Genesis 16:12 the word which the King James version translates "wild man" really means "onager." Balaam's donkey was not an onager. It saw the angel. An onager would not.

---
The story of Balaam's efforts to curse Israel and of his words being turned into blessings is a wonderful picture of the inability of evil to harm those whose lives are centered in service to the Lord. It is the same lesson which in the New Testament is taught by the parable of the house on the rock and the house on the sand.

The plan of encampment of Israel was prescribed by the Lord at Sinai and pictures the true order of life, with worship of the Lord at its heart and all other pursuits and enjoyments taking their proper place with reference to that central aim. A life so ordered cannot be shaken by trial or temptation. Attacks made upon it turn to blessings because they are accepted as opportunities to exercise the virtues of forgiveness and charity, and thus strengthen instead of weaken the character.

Balaam tried to make use of his knowledge of correspondence to do evil. He knew that the number seven was a holy number and he knew the proper sacrifices to make in order to establish connection with the spiritual world. But when this connection was established, the evil spirits could not stand against the power expressed in the order of Israel's encampment.

Balaam pictures those who seek to use sacred things, the Bible and the church, for selfish purposes. The evil efforts of Balaam, instead of injuring Israel, returned upon his own head. So we read in Numbers 31:8 that he was later killed when Israel overcame the Midianites. He did, however, show Balak how to lead some of the Israelites astray, as we learn in Revelation 2:14. We are weakened when we allow any of our desires to stray from their true relation to the Lord's service.

We learned in an early lesson in this course that animals represent affections. The horse and the donkey represent affections for reasoning. Swedenborg says that the horse represents the power to reason from inner and higher principles and the donkey, the power to reason from external knowledges. Or, the donkey represents the natural reason which we sometimes call "common sense." This is a useful power in its proper place, although we must not think it is our only guide. If we do, it becomes an "onager." Ishmael, who mocked at the baby Isaac, was called an "onager."

In the story of Balaam the donkey was a trained beast who had served his master faithfully. He saw the angel in the way when Balaam did not, and it was through the mouth of the donkey that the Lord finally induced Balaam to stop and think. Often when we are bent on doing something we know is wrong, our very common sense tells us that we are making a mistake. The Lord never forces us to do right, but He warns us and tries in every possible way to show us the folly of wrongdoing.

Balaam's prophecy in 24:17 reminds us, of course, of the star of Bethlehem, and of the fact that the Wise Men who saw the star and knew its meaning came from the same country which produced Balaam. This was the land called Aram or Syria, and also Mesopotamia — which means "between the rivers" — because it was watered by the two famous rivers, the Tigris and the Euphrates. The people of this country were remnants of the Ancient Church who derived their religion by tradition from the Ancient Word. The prophecy of the star was undoubtedly a part of that Word. The chief delight of the people of the Ancient Church was the study of correspondences. It is evident from Balaam's directions to Balak for his offerings that even hundreds of years after the breakup of the Ancient Church (described in the story of the Tower of Babel) some of this knowledge of correspondences still remained in Mesopotamia. We may also assume that it lasted even to the Lord's time, since the Wise Men brought correspondential gifts to Him. Swedenborg tells us that the hieroglyphics of Egypt were a survival of this same knowledge, and that the magicians of Egypt, like Balaam, found their power in it. The Wise Men are examples of those remnants of the Ancient Church who cherished the knowledges which remained from a love of the truth and a desire to learn of the Lord. Balaam represents those who used the same knowledge for selfish ends.

