
=== Junior

Balaam's background and connection with the Ancient Word and with the Wise Men will interest the Juniors, and also Balaam's character. Have them look up the Bible references to learn of the harm that Balaam actually did, and of his death. The meaning of the encampment of Israel is a good lesson to develop and illustrate.

In our lesson for today the children of Israel have nearly reached the end of their journey. The pillar of cloud and fire has been leading them about in the wilderness for almost forty years. In Numbers 33 you will find a list of all the places where they had camped during this journey. Now they are in their last encampment in the valley on the east side of the Jordan River not far from the head of the Dead Sea and just across the river from Jericho. They are in a country which had belonged to Moab, but which the Amorites had taken from Moab. The Israelites had overcome the Amorites, but they had been commanded not to fight with the nations of Moab, Ammon, and Edom because they were their relatives. You remember that Edom is another name for Esau. Moab and Ammon were the two sons of Abraham's nephew Lot. In spite of Israel's peaceful intentions, the people of Moab were afraid of the Israelites. What did the king of Moab decide to do?

Balaam lived in Aram or Syria, a country also called Mesopotamia, which means "between the rivers' — the rivers being the Tigris and the Euphrates. In that country the people had had the Ancient Word and had understood the knowledge of correspondences, according to which it was written. The remains of this knowledge made it possible for them to receive enlightenment from the Lord, but it also made it possible for some of them to use this enlightenment for selfish purposes.

Balaam, as we learn from other statements in the Bible, was an evil man. When Balak, the king of Moab, asked him to come and curse Israel, he wanted very much to obey because of the great reward offered. But he knew that the power by which he worked magic came from the Lord and that he could not exercise it if the Lord was against him. All the incidents of his journey were meant to keep him reminded of this.

How many times did Balak send messengers to Balaam? 

What stopped Balaam on the way?

How often was he stopped before he saw the angel?

The story says that Balaam's donkey saw the angel when Balaam did not. The donkey, which pictures our natural intelligence, is a very sure-footed animal — just as our natural intelligence enables us to make our way safely in the world. Balaam was blind to the angel because he was so bent on having his own way, even though he possessed enough natural intelligence to know that it was not the way the Lord wanted him to take. The Lord put obstacles in his way three times to make him stop and think, but he did not want to listen to reason. When we are bent on doing something which even our common sense shows us is wrong, don't we often try to force our reasoning into the way we want to go, just as Balaam tried to drive his donkey? Finally the Lord spoke to Balaam through the mouth of the donkey — the donkey of course did not really speak — and showed him how foolish he was, and then he saw the angel in the way.

The Lord does not make us do what He wants us to do. If He did, we should be like slaves and could have no happiness. But He tries always to show us what we ought to do, and He continually puts obstacles in the way of our evil courses to make us stop and think. When this happens, we should not try to "ride over" the obstacles, but should ask ourselves if what we are trying to do is really right. The Lord also gives us parents and friends who, like the angel, help us to see the difference between right and wrong. And then if we persist in doing wrong, the Lord turns the things we do into blessings for others, although we ourselves must suffer.

From the heights overlooking the valley Balaam and Balak could see the whole encampment of the Israelites.

What did Balaam tell Balak to do?

You see, Balaam knew the correspondence of numbers and animals and sacrifices. So his arrangements established a connection with the spiritual world through which he could receive power from the Lord.

How many times did Balaam try to do what Balak wanted?

What happened each time?

The thing which saved Israel was the order of its encampment, with the tabernacle at its center. It pictured the true order of heaven or of a heavenly character, with worship of the Lord at the center and all the other affections and thoughts taking their proper places with respect to that. If we live in this order, no evil can harm our souls.

Let us see if we can understand this. Take such a simple evil as the temptation to overeat. Our bodies are given to us to use in the service of the Lord and the neighbor. They need to be properly cared for and fed in order to be useful, and so one of our proper affections is the affection for good food. But this affection should not have a very large place in our whole life. So long as we keep in mind the true purpose of eating, our love of good food stays in its proper place and we cannot be tempted to overeat. So it is with all our other affections.

Balaam did not succeed in cursing Israel, but we learn elsewhere (Revelation 2:14) that he did give Balak some advice which enabled him to lead some of the Israelites into idolatry and other evils. For this reason, Balaam was afterward killed in a battle which Israel fought with the Midianites (Numbers 31:8).

Notice the prophecy in Exodus 24:17. This reminds us, of course, of the star of Bethlehem. The Wise Men who followed the star so long afterward came from the same eastern country from which Balaam came. So they also had remains of knowledge from the Ancient Word, and knew the prophecy of the star and what it meant. They used their knowledge to find the Lord and worship him.

