
=== Notes for Parents

The book of Numbers gets its name from the fact that the Lord commanded Moses to number the people before they started on their journey from Mount Sinai, and the first few chapters of the book are concerned with this numbering. It is not until chapter 10 that the pillar of cloud and fire is taken up from the tabernacle, giving them their command to break camp and take up their march. The rest of the book treats of their journeyings. Because of their complainings and rebellion and their lack of trust in the Lord, it was nearly forty years before they finally reached the site of our lesson for today and made their last camp "in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho."

They had conquered a number of enemies but had been commanded by the Lord not to disturb the nations of Moab, Ammon, and Edom because these three peoples were their own kin. However, the king of Moab, knowing their success against other nations, was afraid of them.

Everyone knows something of the story of Balaam and his donkey, but few have read it carefully enough to realize the deep lessons it is given to teach us. Balaam came from Aram, or Syria, the "land of the east," the same land from which the Wise Men later came with their gifts to worship the infant Jesus. It was a land in which knowledge from the Ancient Word had been preserved, the Word from which the first eleven chapters of our Bible were taken. In our lesson (chapter 24:17) we find Balaam speaking the prophecy of the Star, and you remember that the Wise Men came to seek the Lord because they had "seen his star in the east." The Wise Men cherished the knowledges from the Ancient Word with a desire to serve the Lord, but Balaam used them for selfish purposes. In the same way, some people today use their knowledge of truth from the Bible to advance themselves to positions of honor and influence instead of for its true purpose.

Balaam wanted the rewards which Balak offered him, but he knew that he had no power except from the Lord. Read these chapters carefully, realizing that they picture the Lord's dealings with us when we are bent on seeking our own advantage. The Lord does not force us to do right — He always leaves us free to make our own choice — but He tells us first plainly what we should or should not do; then, if we choose the wrong way, He warns us, He puts obstacles in our way to make us stop and think, and in the end He turns our selfish efforts as far as possible into blessings for those whom we sought to injure.

Perhaps you remember from our lesson on Ishmael and Isaac that the donkey represents our natural reason — our common sense. How often mere common sense will show us the folly of our selfish ways, if we will but listen! The donkey, of course, did not actually speak, but because of the correspondence of the donkey, the voice of the Lord seemed to come to Balaam through the donkey's mouth.

