
=== Primary

The story of the donkey and the angel is the part of the lesson which will most interest this class, but they should be told the highlights of the rest of the story. Even the youngest may remember pictures of the Wise Men and the Star, and they should learn Balaam's prophecy as a preparation for the Christmas lesson. They should be shown the reason why Balaam could not curse Israel when he saw them encamped around the tabernacle, which contained the ark with the ten commandments. They can be told that this means that if we believe in the Lord and keep the commandments, nothing can hurt our souls.

After the Lord had given Moses all the laws for the government of the people and for their worship, the pillar of cloud and fire finally moved on. The people took down their tents and the Levites took down the tabernacle and they all followed the pillar. For forty long years it led them from place to place in the wilderness before it finally brought them near to the Jordan River and the Holy Land.

They had conquered several enemies, but there were three nations which the Lord told them not to fight because they were their own relatives. These nations were Moab, Ammon, and Edom. But you know there are people who are never willing to trust anyone. The king of Moab was such a person. His name was Balak. When he saw the great encampment of the children of Israel so near the border of his land, he was frightened and sent for a famous wizard named Balaam and offered him great rewards if he would come and curse Israel for him.

Balaam lived in Aram, or Syria, the country between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.

He was a diviner — that is, a man who has magic powers. 

What did Balak, king of Moab, ask Balaam to do?

What did the Lord tell Balaam?

Balaam knew that he would have no power unless the Lord gave it to him. 

Why was Balaam so anxious to do what Balak wanted?

Who stopped Balaam on the way?

How many times was he stopped?

This was to show Balaam that he must speak only what the Lord told him to speak. 

Where did Balak take Balaam to see the camp of Israel?

What did Balaam have Balak do there?

How many times did Balaam try to curse Israel?

What happened each time?

Balaam could not do what Balak wanted, but we learn in the book of Revelation that he did give Balak advice which helped him to injure some of the Israelites.

Balaam was finally killed while fighting with the Midianites against Israel. The Wise Men who followed the star to Bethlehem so long afterward came from and knew the same prophecy.

