
=== Senior

(1) The origin and character of Balaam, (2) the working of divine providence in warning him, and (3) the meaning and power of the orderly encampment of Israel are all important for the Seniors. They are just at the age when they most need this last lesson especially. Also, if they can be impressed with the important teaching of this familiar story in its internal sense, it will guard them against the temptation to fall in with any casual or profane talk about the Word.

---
Swedenborg says of Balaam: "Balaam was a hypocrite and a wizard, for he spoke well concerning the sons of Israel from Jehovah, and yet in his heart he burned to destroy them, and also did destroy them through the advice he gave to Balak, from which it is evident that his works were hypocritical" (@AR 114). It is in Revelation 2:14 that we learn that Balaam did succeed in giving some help to Balak, for it is said "he taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication."

The first part of the story of Balaam, which is the part usually studied, teaches in the letter how the Lord impressed upon Balaam the fact that in his character of diviner he must speak only what the Lord gave him to say. In the spiritual sense this teaches us how the Lord makes use of even our natural reason, our common sense, pictured by the donkey, to force us to stop and think when we are bent on a selfish course.

Two general lessons may be drawn from the story of Balaam.

One is that if we order our lives according to the Word, our souls cannot be injured by the evil efforts of others. We recall that the encampment of Israel, with the tabernacle in the center and the tribes each in its allotted place around it, pictures the order of heaven and of a heavenly character in the individual, with service of the Lord as its inmost motive and all the affections and abilities kept in their proper relation to that service. When our lives are so motivated and so ordered, temptations are easily recognized and resisted. Take for example the temptation — to which we are all sometimes subject — to feel that others have a better chance in the world than we have. If we really have at heart the service of the Lord, we see at once that we have ample opportunity for this service whatever the conditions of our outward life may be. "He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much."

The second general lesson is that it is quite possible to manifest great power and zeal in spiritual matters and still be a hypocrite, and that we need to guard against undoing by our example good which we may try to do by our words. A common instance of this is the man who goes to church regularly and gives to it generously, and at the same time in his business underpays his employees, "outsmarts" his competitors, and evades taxes. Here we should remember that we may be doing the same thing in our small affairs, and that the verse quoted above (Luke 16:10) continues "and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much." Balaam, when he spoke from the Lord, could speak only the Lord's words; but when he spoke from himself, the evils which were in his heart appeared.

The same lesson is drawn from the fact that, while the Israelites could not be harmed by Balaam when they were encamped, they could individually be led astray by the temptations which he taught Balak to put in their way. For the encampment of the Israelites was representative, and did not reflect their actual state as individuals. Swedenborg says: "The reason Balaam was able to lead astray the people by guile, was because that people were at heart of such a character" (@AE 140[5]).

It is significant that Balaam was killed by Israel (Numbers 31:8) in a battle they fought by the Lord's command against the Midianites. For the Midianites in a good sense — as when Jethro protected and advised Moses — represent "those who are in the truths of simple good"; but in a bad sense, when they are enemies of Israel, they represent "those who are in the knowledges of truth; but still not in life according to them."

