
=== Senior

The real meaning of the transfiguration is the lesson for this class, the fact that the whole Word teaches that the Lord is the one object of our worship. The difference between seeing the Lord as a finite man like ourselves and recognizing Him as God, divine love and wisdom manifested in human form so that we can know Him, is clearly brought out in the internal sense of this story. Read with the class the quotation from Swedenborg at the end of the lesson and help them to understand it.

The Lord had been going about throughout all the Holy Land performing miracles which impressed all who saw them with the fact that some unusual power resided in Him. The scribes and Pharisees, wishing to reject His teaching, ascribed His power to Beelzebub. The multitudes who sat at His feet, prepared by John, were willing to believe that His power came from God, but they had various theories about Him, as we see from Matthew 16:14. Only a few believed with Peter that He was actually the Messiah promised in the Old Testament, Jehovah come into the world. That even all the Apostles did not believe this is evident from Philip's question in John 14:8. Yet this belief was the rock on which Christianity must be founded. Read Matthew 16, verses 16-19. It is from verses 18 and 19 that the Roman Catholic Church claims its authority, for it takes them literally and believes that the man Peter was the head of the church and was given power to admit people to heaven or to keep them out of it, and that he afterward went to Rome and handed his power down to his successors there. But read verse 23. If the Lord had meant that Peter was greater than others, He would hardly have called him Satan immediately afterward. And we also know that Peter thrice denied the Lord on the night before the crucifixion. The rock meant in Matthew 16:18 is not Peter himself but the great truth which he had just declared — that Jesus Christ is the Messiah promised throughout the Scriptures.

The question, "Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" is just as pertinent today as when it was first spoken. If we read the religious periodicals of the Christian world today, we find that there are still many theories about Christ and that few seem actually to believe that He was Jehovah in the flesh. Yet this belief is the only one which harmonizes the Old and the New Testaments and opens our minds to understand the Scriptures.

The vision of the transfiguration which was granted to Peter, James, and John pictures the vision which is possible to all who believe that Jesus Christ is God and who seek Him in His Word. As a necessary preparation, the Lord took them up "into an high mountain apart." To see the Lord in His Word we must raise our minds high above worldly considerations and separate our thoughts from their common associations. Like the three disciples we see at first Moses and Elijah, the Law and the Prophets, the literal sense of the Word as it treats of the Lord. But later we may be given to see the Lord alone as we read the letter of Scripture. What Moses and the Prophets themselves were and thought ceases to be important, and we hear only the voice of the Lord speaking to us in the Word.

Peter, James, and John indeed saw the Lord in His glory, saw Him with their spiritual eyes as they would see Him in heaven; but for us the meaning of the vision is the ability which we have, if we will make the necessary preparation, to see the Lord in the spiritual sense of the Word. This preparation is more than study. It begins with humility. The order of events in the text is significant. First the vision itself is given, with Moses and Elijah present with the Lord. Then the bright cloud and the voice from heaven prepare the disciples to see the Lord alone. The bright cloud is also a symbol of the letter of the Word, but with the spiritual sense shining through, and the voice from heaven is the power of the truth proclaimed in the Word. Then the disciples are told not to tell others of the vision until after the resurrection. We cannot expect to convince others of the validity of our New Church teachings until they have had some experience which opens their minds.

Finally there follows the question in regard to the prophecy concerning the coming of Elias (Elijah) and the Lord's answer identifying John the Baptist as the fulfillment of this prophecy. The prophecy itself is found in Malachi 4:5. If you will read Matthew 11:7-15, you will see that the Lord had given them this teaching already, but they had forgotten it — as they forgot many other things He told them. One of the lessons we should draw from this is that our understanding of the Lord and His teachings must come from our own study of the Gospels and not from what the Apostles afterward said — in the Acts and Epistles — still less from any decisions of church councils or prominent theologians. If we wish to see the Lord as He really is, we must seek Him in the inspired Word.

