
=== Adult

You will find that many of the adults will actually know very little about the twelve apostles and will be interested in such details as you can give them. In general, discussion should center on the various ways in which the people of the Lord's time reacted to His presence, and their counterparts in the life of today.

---
The Lord's life and teaching in the world accomplished the consummation of the ancient Jewish dispensation and the beginning of the first Christian dispensation. The scribes and Pharisees were the official spokesmen of the decadent church, and throughout the Gospels their attitude toward the Lord is one of stubborn and willfully blind rejection. It is interesting that in verse 5 of our chapter for today the word translated "hardness" is actually "blindness." Blindness of heart is the rejection of the truth by the selfish will. It is the "unforgivable sin" of verse 29. Again and again the charges of the scribes and Pharisees were countered by the Lord with such unanswerable truth that they could not argue. But in each case their opposition to Him was increased. In our chapter they "went forth, and straightway took counsel with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him." The Herodians were a political party which supported Herod and favored dependence upon Rome. They were enemies of the Pharisees. So a joining of forces with the Herodians was an acknowledgment by the Pharisees that they had no legitimate means of silencing the Lord.

The state of the common people at the end of this dispensation is pictured by the man in the synagogue whose hand was withered. The hand is the symbol of power. Whatever the physical cause of the man's affliction may have been, the use of the word withered involves in the spiritual sense the result of a lack of truth. It is lack of water which causes things to wither, and water corresponds to truth. The people had been deprived by the scribes and Pharisees of the truths of the Word. They had lost the power to do good because they did not know what was good. In Matthew 23:13 we read, "But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in." The man in the synagogue is a picture of those who were devout and really desired to be able to live good lives.

Another class of people — the most numerous perhaps — is represented by the multitude who "pressed" (literally "rushed") upon the Lord at the seaside, desiring only to be healed of their diseases. Even in the natural sense, these people were thinking of themselves, not of each other or even of the Lord. They recognized their wretchedness and sought relief wherever it was promised. The Lord healed and taught these people by the seashore, a picture of how He is able in the Church universal of any age to lead men to better states by recalling to their minds whatever of truth they have stored in their memories. Verse 11 expresses a truth which is illustrated in several places in the Gospels — the truth that the hells and evil spirits cannot stand in the presence of the Lord. This should teach us that when we are struggling with a temptation, our ability to resist the evil will come only as we admit the Lord into our thoughts.

Then the Lord went up into a mountain and called unto Him whom He would. Those who are called to go up into the mountain with the Lord are those who want more than to be saved from suffering and disaster themselves. They really want to learn of the Lord and serve Him. The Lord found among this group His apostles, men in whom He saw the capacity to learn and also to transmit what they learned to others. Even here we should note that it was He who gave them all the power they had. After the Lord left them, the apostles did go out into the world and establish the Christian Church. But the Gospel they preached was the life of the Lord, and the miracles they performed were done in His name and by His means. One of the most subtle fallacies of our times is the assumption that the beginnings of the Christian Church and the Gospel records of the life of Christ were simply products of the minds and deeds of the apostles. Many conclusions of some modern theologians can be traced to this false premise, and we need to be able to recognize its influence and to discount such conclusions accordingly.

The twelve apostles were all different. Like the twelve sons of Jacob they represent "all things of faith and love in the complex" (@AC 9643[4]). The particular correspondence of Peter, James, and John is given us a number of times in the writings: "faith, charity, and the good of charity" (Arcana Coelestia preface to 2135) or "truth in the understanding," "truth in the will," and "truth in act" (@AE 444[11]). @AE 821[3] gives the correspondence of Andrew as "the obedience of faith." The difference between Andrew and John is probably analogous to the difference between the good of truth and the good of love. @AE 740[8] says that Judas represents the ancient Jewish nation.

None of the other apostles is discussed specifically in the writings, but an interesting study could be made of them from the little we learn of each from the letter of the Word taken in connection with the correspondence of the sons of Jacob. Philip, whose home was at Bethsaida, is mentioned several times in the Gospel of John, first as bringing Nathanael to the Lord (John 1:43-46), then in connection with the feeding of the five thousand (John 6:7), then as a means of access to the Lord for "certain Greeks" (John 12:20-22), and especially in the incident in John 14:8-11, when it is Philip's request, "Show us the Father," which brings forth the Lord's clearest statement of His identity. Bartholomew, which means "son of Tolmai," may possibly have been that same Nathanael of John 1:47-51, since the name Bartholomew appears only in the lists of the twelve, and Nathanael, whose home was in Cana of Galilee, is included with several of the apostles in John 21:2 when the Lord appeared to them after His resurrection beside the sea of Tiberias. Thomas has come into our common speech as "doubting Thomas" because of his slowness to believe in the Lord's resurrection (John 20:24-29), but we should read also John 11:16 and 14:5. The second James, James the son of Alphaeus, is often referred to by commentators as "James the Less," but he became after the Lord's resurrection a great leader of the early Christians, the head of the Church in Jerusalem. Thaddaeus is the surname of Lebbaeus (Matthew 10:3) and is identical with "Judas the brother of James" in the list in Luke 6:16. He is the Judas "not Iscariot" of John 14:22 and the writer of the Epistle of Jude. Simon the Canaanite is also called Simon "Zelotes." This means that he was a member of the Zealots, a fanatical sect who worked especially for the overthrow of the Roman rule and the re—establishment of a theocracy.

An interesting thought is presented to us of the New Church by the statement in @TCR 4: "It is a noteworthy fact that some months ago the Lord called together His twelve disciples, now angels, and sent them forth throughout the spiritual world, with the command to preach the gospel there anew, since the church that was scarcely a remnant of it survives." From this we may presume that all twelve became angels. In the letter of the Word (John 6:70) the Lord Himself speaks of Judas Iscariot as a devil. But Judas the man who, when he found that the Lord actually was taken prisoner by his means, tried to return the purchase money in order to release Him and, finding that impossible, went out and hanged himself (Matthew 27:3-10), evidently had in him the basis of salvation like all the others.

