
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the correspondence of the twelve apostles as a whole and of Peter, James, and John in particular. The difference between a disciple and an apostle can be taken up as it relates to our own activity. We need to be both.

---
Our chapter for today is very closely connected with the last one. You remember that the Lord told the scribes and Pharisees that the sabbath was made for man and not man for the sabbath, and immediately He had an opportunity to illustrate what He meant. For in the synagogue itself on the sabbath, He finds a man who needs healing, and He asks the scribes and Pharisees, "Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill?" The same story of the man with the withered hand is told in Matthew 12:9-13, and there He also asks them if they themselves would not rescue one of their sheep which happened to fall into a pit on the sabbath day. The Pharisees could not answer Him, because again they knew He was right; but they went out and "took counsel with the Herodians" against Him. This shows how bitter and determined they were, for the Pharisees and the Herodians were enemies. The Herodians were a political group who supported Herod and favored the Roman rule, while the Pharisees, as we have seen, hated the Roman rule.

The withered hand has a similar correspondence to the palsy, for the hand is always the symbol of power — we carry out most of our intentions by means of our hands. The man with the withered hand pictures those who, for lack of proper spiritual nourishment, have lost the power to do good. The good people in the Lord's time were in this state, and the Lord's teaching and example restored this power just as He restored the man's hand.

The Lord was in the habit of teaching by the seaside and also on a mountain — you remember the sermon on the mount — because the sea pictures knowledges gathered in the memory, and a mountain pictures an elevated state of thought.

Read Mark 4:1. This shows why the Lord asked His disciples to have a small ship at hand. You can see that most of the people who "pressed" upon the Lord to touch Him wanted to be healed of particular diseases and afflictions. The Lord taught such people by the seaside because He can help each of us only through what truths we have in our memories. Whenever we see that there is something wrong in what we are feeling or thinking or doing (this is spiritual disease) the Lord in a secret way brings up in our minds something we have learned from the Word which helps us to understand our fault and overcome it with His help. But then He went up into a mountain and called to Him "whom He would." A great many people want to live good lives and get rid of their faults, but they do not all want to think deeply about the Lord and His truth. The ones whom the Lord calls up into the mountain are those who want to lift their thoughts above the plane of worldly things and learn all they can about heavenly living. These are the people who are concerned not only with being good themselves but with bringing the Lord's truth and healing power to others. It was those who went up into the mountain with the Lord who could be sent out as His apostles.

The word apostle means "one sent forth." Disciple means "a learner." There were twelve apostles because the number twelve signifies "all things in a complex" or all the things which go together to make a whole. The twelve apostles, like the twelve sons of Jacob, picture all the qualities of faith and love which make a whole person, a person capable of loving, knowing, and serving the Lord. So each apostle represents some particular quality in us. We cannot consider them all, but we should know about the three who were closest to the Lord — Peter, James, and John. You remember that in every one of us, as in the Lord, there is a trinity, the trinity of will, thought, and act. We would never do anything if we did not have some desire which prompted us. We cannot carry out any desire without thinking about it and learning how to do it. And we are never satisfied until our desire and thought are carried out into action. In the church faith and charity are common terms. Faith belongs to the understanding or thought plane, and charity belongs properly to the plane of the heart or desire. Sometimes people think of charity as just outward good deeds, but these are merely the carrying out into act of charity in the heart. The Lord says that our outward good deeds are not really good at all when they are done, as they sometimes are, from selfish motives like the desire to seem good and to be praised. Peter, James, and John represent the trinity in us: faith, charity, and the good of charity.

The apostles were those who, after the Lord left them, went out into the world and founded the Christian Church. Judas was the only one who did not serve the Lord in this way. We shall learn more about him later.

