
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Give this class as much information as is available about the less-well-known apostles, having them look up and read all the references. They should understand the importance of these twelve men in the beginning of the Christian Church.

---
What miracle of healing did we learn about in our last lesson?

Who were the scribes?

Who were the Pharisees?

Why did they hate the Lord?

Of what did they accuse Him?

What did the Lord say about new wine?

What did He mean?

What did He say about the sabbath?

You remember that wherever the Lord was He always went to the synagogue on the sabbath day. Our chapter begins, as the last one ended, on the sabbath, and the scribes and Pharisees are still standing by to see how they can find fault with the Lord.

What miracle does He perform in the synagogue?

What did He ask the scribes and Pharisees?

Then we are told that He withdrew to the seashore and that He asked His disciples to have a small ship at hand in case the crowd became too great. Read Mark 4:1. You remember that the first four disciples were fishermen; so they had boats at their disposal. The people crowded about the Lord in such great numbers that He often had to withdraw from them. In addition to the seashore another favorite place from which the Lord taught is mentioned in our chapter. Read Mark 4:13. Perhaps you remember the sermon on the mount. Read Matthew 5:1. In the Bible many important things happen on mountaintops. This is because going up on a mountain is a picture of lifting our minds above the plane of worldly thinking and drawing closer to the Lord. If you have ever been on a mountain, you know how small everything down below looks and how far you can see. That is the way this world looks to the Lord and the angels, and it is good for us to get the "angel view" of things sometimes. One of the best-loved of the Psalms (Psalm 121:1) teaches this lesson. You remember that the commandments were given from the top of Mount Sinai.

Who were the first four disciples called by the Lord?

What other disciple did we learn about in our last lesson?

A disciple is a "learner." Now we read that the Lord ordained twelve of His disciples to receive special instruction from Him so that they could go out and preach. They have come to be called the twelve apostles, because the word apostle means "one sent forth." See if you can learn the names of all twelve. Three of them — Peter, James, and John — were the Lord's closest followers and were taken with Him sometimes when the others were left behind. Andrew was Peter's brother, one of the first four.

The next four are Philip and Bartholomew, Matthew and Thomas. Philip came from Bethsaida, a village near Capernaum at the northern end of the Sea of Galilee. You may read about his call in John 1:43, and if you will read on a little, you will find that Philip brought another disciple, named Nathanael, to the Lord. It is thought that Nathanael may be the personal name of Bartholomew, for Bartholomew means "the son of Tolmai," and this name is not mentioned except in the lists in which all twelve are named. So this disciple might easily have been Nathanael the son of Tolmai. Matthew we can remember from the story of his call, which we had in our last lesson, and also because he was the writer of the first Gospel. To fix Thomas in your mind read John 20:24-29. Sometimes people today call a man who is hard to convince a "doubting Thomas."

Then there is another James, who is referred to sometimes as "James the Less" to distinguish him from the brother of John. He later became a great leader of the early Christians, having charge of the first church in Jerusalem. The disciple called Thaddaeus in this list is elsewhere called both Lebbaeus and Judas "not Iscariot" and is said by Luke to be the brother of the second James. He wrote the Epistle of Jude. Simon the Canaanite is sometimes called Simon Zelotes, and so was apparently one of a very strict sect called the Zealots. And finally there was Judas Iscariot, who became the betrayer of the Lord.

What powers did the Lord give the apostles?

The last part of our chapter teaches us a lesson which we all need. Verse 21 tells us that the Lord's "friends," when they heard of the attention He was attracting, "went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself." And verse 22 tells us that the scribes and Pharisees said that His power came from the devil. The same thing happens today. When one of our friends starts out on an entirely new course which we do not understand, we are very apt to think he is "crazy." And when someone we dislike does something very good, we are sure that he must have some bad motive behind his act. We are all too ready to think what we like to think instead of finding out what is really true. And in verse 29 the Lord teaches us that this is very dangerous. It is from this verse that people have come to speak of the "unforgivable sin." To "blaspheme against the Holy Spirit" is to be unwilling to acknowledge truth which condemns our evils. It is unforgivable only because it closes our minds to the truth and so makes it impossible for the Lord to reach us.

The last five verses of our chapter sometimes puzzle people, but this is because they want to think of the Lord just as a good man. The Lord was God Himself come into the world and to Him all men and women were equally dear. He wanted to help everyone, but He could come close only to those who were good.

