
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
After your introductory story, read verses 7 to 20 of our chapter, and talk about the twelve apostles. Teach the children the names of Peter, James, and John. Read the names of the others two or three times so that the names will become familiar. Tell them why they were called apostles and what their work was to be. They should also know which ones wrote books of the Bible.

---
Do you remember how in our lesson for last Sunday we read the story of the man who was sick of the palsy? This was only one of many diseases which our Lord healed when He was living in the world. Such great crowds came to Him to be healed that He often had to go away from them. Our chapter for today begins with the story of how He healed a man who had a withered hand. Because He did this on the sabbath His enemies tried to make trouble for Him. The Lord was never afraid of His enemies. He could always either shame them into silence or else leave them.

Where did He go to escape them?

What did He ask His disciples to provide for Him?

Where did He go to teach His disciples?

How many of them did He ordain to go out and preach?

What powers did He give them?

See how many of their names you can remember. Which ones have we heard of before?

You will hear very often about the twelve apostles. Their names are given in this chapter. Let us read how the Lord chose them. [Read Mark 3:7-19.] We know most about Peter and James and John. See if you can remember these three names and remember that this was a different John from John the Baptist. These three were the Lord's closest followers and were often taken with Him when the others were not.

Do you know what disciple means? It means "a learner."

The twelve special disciples whom the Lord ordained came to be called the apostles, because apostle means "one sent forth."

They were the ones who were to go out into the world after the Lord left them and begin the Christian Church.

Three of them — Peter, James, and John — were closer to the Lord than the others.

He often took them with Him when the others did not go. Which two apostles were chosen to write Gospels?

John was also the one to whom the revelation was given which is described in the last book of our Bible.

