
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson of the unforgivable sin should be discussed with this class and the importance of an attitude of openness to the truth even when it condemns us.

---
The question which the Lord asked the Pharisees in the synagogue, "Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill?" carried on the teaching about the sabbath in our last week's lesson. The Pharisees could not answer it, and the Lord then healed the man whose hand had been withered. We know that the hand corresponds to the power to act. Things wither when they are deprived of the necessary nourishment, especially water. The scribes and Pharisees had come between the people and the Word, cutting off the supply of truth which they needed. So they had lost the power to live good lives. The common people were like the man with the withered hand. Note the fact that the Pharisees went out and "took counsel with the Herodians" against the Lord. This shows that they recognized that they had no legitimate means of silencing Him, for the Herodians, the political party who favored Herod and the Roman rule, were normally regarded by the Pharisees as enemies.

There is an interesting contrast presented in this chapter by the Lord's teaching the multitude by the seaside and then going up into a mountain to give special instruction to particular disciples and to commission the twelve apostles. The sea represents knowledges gathered in the memory. The Lord sees to it that everyone has the opportunity to receive into his memory sufficient truth for his salvation, if he chooses to obey it. But not all care to know more than the bare essentials of a good life. Those who want the truth not for their own salvation alone but that they may serve the Lord and the neighbor as fully as possible are pictured by those who were called up into the mountain to the Lord.

The twelve apostles, like the twelve sons of Jacob, represent "all things of faith and love," all the qualities in us which enable us to know and serve the Lord. The three closest to the Lord — Peter, James, and John — represent faith, charity, and the good of charity, the three essential elements of a good life, goodness in the mind, heart, and outward act. The other nine are subsidiary qualities, all good and useful in their proper place — even Judas who, representing the ancient Hebrew nation, pictures the interest in the externals of worship. It is only when the externals are placed in a position of first importance and observed without a true internal that they become perverted. The apostles, with the exception of Judas, were to go out into the world, after the Lord left them, and found the Christian Church. They were men of different talents and different characters, but the Lord saw in each one capabilities which fitted him for his task. We should note, however, that the power each one had was from the Lord, and that the Gospel they were to preach was from the Lord, not their own. The Lord's life and teachings were the foundations of the Christian Church. The apostles were not the authors of the Gospels. The facts were drawn from their minds and arranged and expressed under inspiration from the Lord. The Word produced the Church, not the Church the Word.

As the Lord's fame grew, His kinsmen from Nazareth, who thought of Him only as one of themselves, were disturbed and said, "He is beside himself" (that is, crazy). We tend to doubt the ability of anyone whom we have known in childhood and youth to become a really great person. And the scribes said, "By the prince of the devils casteth he out devils." When one we dislike does great things, we are all prone to try to read some bad purpose into his seeming good works. The teaching in this chapter is that we should cultivate the habit of judging good and truth impersonally, and ask of any statement not, "Who said it?" but, "Is it true?" and of any deed or project not, "Who began it?" but, "Is it a good and useful thing?" Blasphemy against the Holy Spirit, which has come to be referred to as "the unforgivable sin," is unwillingness to recognize as truth from the Lord anything which condemns our own evils. When we are in this attitude it is impossible for the Lord to reach and help us. So we go on confirming evil in ourselves, which is the road to hell. Humility is the only ground in which the seeds of truth can take root.

The Lord's seeming indifference to His family, described in the last few verses of the chapter, should be considered in connection with their purpose in coming as described in verse 21. The Lord knew the hearts and minds of all men then as He knows them today. We come into relationship with the Lord only as we keep the commandments because they are from Him. This is the thought which is expressed in the last verse of our lesson.

