
=== Notes for Parents

The story of Moses is another of the great stories of the Bible with which most people are familiar; but usually when we think of Moses, we think of some one incident in his life — some, who have not been taught beyond the beginner stage in the Sunday school, think only of Moses as a little baby in the bulrushes on the brink of the Nile. The Lord saved Moses then, and the story is a touching and beautiful one, but it is only the beginning of his life, for he was saved in order that he might perform a great task. Our children, when they are little, love the story of the baby Moses and it makes a deep impression on them, but they should even then be taught something of the great work which that baby was to do.

The children of Israel, who had gone down into Egypt to live during the seven years of famine in the time of Joseph, had become too well satisfied with their ease and prosperity there, and had forgotten to go back to their own country. So in time they got into difficulties with the Egyptians and were made slaves. When everything is going well with us, we are likely to forget that we are created not just to enjoy the good things of this world, but that the Lord has a place for each one of us and a work which we should be doing for Him. The Holy Land represents heaven or a heavenly character, and that is the true home of every one of us. All our occupations are really our opportunities for serving the Lord and the neighbor, and if we think of them in this way, we shall come to love our work not for the money or acclaim it brings us but because it is useful to others. This is the only way in which we can really find happiness in our work. Unhappiness always comes from thinking about ourselves, because we are never satisfied then, our work seems hard and our pay small, and we are always thinking about what other people should do for us. This is slavery, the kind of slavery into which the children of Israel fell in Egypt when they forgot the country in which they were supposed to be living.

We are apt to think that people who have things we do not have are the happy ones — but are they? Are all the rich people you know really happy? If you look about you honestly, you will see that the people who really are happy are always the ones who are not thinking about themselves; and we can all be such people if we will. The Lord's call to Moses at the burning bush, the lesson the children have for today, is the call which comes to every one of us if we are willing to listen, the call to turn our thoughts and our lives away from our own wants and toward the Holy Land of unselfish, heavenly living.

