
=== Adult

Perhaps the most important thing for this class is to realize the psychological and spiritual depths in this story which is so often thought of only as "one of the Bible stories children love." It is essentially a story of adult experience.

---
In the history of Israel the Philistines play an important part.

They represent "those in faith separate from charity," those who know the truth and are proud of their knowledge, but have no desire to live according to it. But we need always to remember that our concern is not with others whom we may think to be Philistines, but with the Philistines within ourselves, an ever-present enemy. Every time we excuse ourselves from doing what we know is right, every time we twist the truth in such a way as to support our desires, every time we are contemptuous of another who differs from us, the Philistines are upon us.

Saul is unable to wage a successful war against the Philistines.

He is afraid of them, and his men are constantly deserting him for fear of the Philistines. This is because a mere external understanding of truth, being superficial, is easily confused by clever arguments. It cannot see the real fallacy behind their plausibility. It relies upon its own strength in argument, as Saul relied upon his army and his armor, and when it meets an adversary more clever in the use of the same weapons, it has no further strength. We recall that the Philistines had prevented the Israelites from practicing the trade of smith, so that they had no means of making weapons themselves or of sharpening those they did have. The Philistine in us tries to keep control of the truth. When we are trying to justify ourselves in self-seeking and self-exaltation, we do our best to use truths for our purpose, sometimes almost convincing ourselves in the process that wrong is right. This is what Swedenborg means by the falsification of truth. When we are in this Philistine state, our own reasoning is very pleasant and convincing to us, and we will go to any length rather than be proved wrong. This "conceit of self-intelligence" is what is meant by Goliath. We have all had the experience of arguing endlessly, twisting the truth this way and that, rather than admitting ourselves mistaken. This is Goliath coming out morning and evening for forty days to deliver his challenge against Israel.

Throughout the Word weapons of various kinds in a good sense represent truths with which we defend ourselves against evil or attack our spiritual enemies. In the hands of the evil, weapons represent these truths falsified by being used in the defense and support of evil. This makes it easy for us to see the correspondence of the armor of the three chief figures in our lesson. Remember that brass represents external goodness. Have we ever, when trying to defend ourselves in a wrong course we have chosen, or when criticizing someone else whose views did not agree with ours, pointed complacently to certain good deeds of ours and to knowledge and abilities which we possess? Have we ever justified a questionable course on the ground that it was the only "practical" method of accomplishing results? Have we ever in argument said or implied, "If you knew as much as I do, you would agree with me"? This is the heavy brass armor and weapons of Goliath. It is terrifying to Saul and his soldiers.

Saul's weapons and armor are literal truths. The mere external understanding of truth, in the face of attack by apparently stronger reasoning, feels helpless because it has relied on a literal acceptance of the truth and has not felt the Lord's love and power within it. We see this in the fact that often young people who have been strictly brought up at home but have not been made to feel the loving purpose behind their parents' rules fall easy victims to the persuasion of schoolmates who pose as more emancipated. It is hard to face ridicule for something which we have been taught is right but which we ourselves do not see to be right. David the young shepherd could not use Saul's armor because he had not "proved" it. But with his own weapons he had already delivered a lamb of his father's flock from a lion and a bear. He used the weapons he had proved.

David's weapons were his shepherd's staff, his sling, and five smooth stones from the brook. The staff was his reliance on the Lord; the smooth stones from the brook, particular truths of the Word readied by experience (five meaning a few but sufficient); and the sling, the understanding — also gained by experience — which enabled him to direct the truth against a particular evil and to communicate to it the force of his zeal. We all may have David's weapons. The Lord promises support to all who obey His commandments. We all have the Word, the clear stream of truth, and we all have the power to find in it truths which we may prove by experience. We make a sling for ourselves by meditating on the truths of the Word and their application to life and conduct. We should be constantly choosing "smooth stones from the brook" and putting them in our "shepherd's bag" ready for use when an enemy attacks any of our innocent affections.

Another point in David's method is suggestive. "And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and drew nigh to meet David, that David hasted, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistines." We should not sit down and wait until temptation has launched its weapons, but we should see it coming, go out to meet it, and strike the first blow ourselves. This is one of the things a knowledge of the internal sense of the Word prepares us to do by giving us an understanding of all sorts of temptations, their origin, and the truths with which they may be overcome. We should see to it that our children have as much as possible of this advance preparation for life; for the Christian life demands not mere passive resistance, but active attack upon evil. David's aim was true because his eye was clear. He saw his enemy distinctly and was able to strike him in the forehead. This teaches us the lesson that if we are to overcome a temptation, we must be able to recognize and destroy the governing and directing false principle which is its head. When this is done, the enemy falls, and it is easy enough to examine the arguments it used and to turn them against it, as David, standing upon the giant, cut off his head with the giant's own sword. "And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent." The evil principle which has falsified truths must be rejected as contrary to the teachings of the church, but the truths it has used, when separated from it, become ours, part of the wisdom of experience.

It was by a succession of small victories, won through reliance on the Lord, that David gradually won the confidence of the people. At first, even when we are trying to fight the Lord's battles, we rely upon ourselves, form hasty judgments, and often take hasty action, as Saul did. But experience teaches us the folly of self-confidence, and there grows up gradually within us a deeper understanding of the Lord's truth, which is David. The Lord begins to give us power through a higher principle. Yet it is a long time before our self-confidence is altogether replaced by reliance on the Lord. Saul continued to reign as king for many years. Even after Saul's death David was first made king in Hebron, and it was another seven years before he was accepted by all the people and came to reign in Jerusalem. Full confidence in the power of the truth as the Lord gives it to us must become established in our hearts before it can become the ruling principle in our minds.

