
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors needed the lesson about Saul's impatience and self-confidence. Point out that Goliath was self-confident, too. They will easily understand the correspondence of Goliath and of the smooth stones from the brook, and will be interested in the origin of the giants. Have them locate the places on a map, and look up all the Bible references. This class especially might easily be absorbed in the fascinating details of the story; so its broad connections and application to their own lives need to be emphasized.

---
The man to be king after Saul was to be a very different kind of person; Samuel said, "The Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart." The new king was to be David. He was to prove himself a great warrior also, but he had other qualities which Saul did not have.

David's home was at Bethlehem. Long afterward someone else was to be born in Bethlehem.

Who was it?

Joseph and Mary were both descendants of David and that was why they went to Bethlehem to be enrolled for the Roman taxation. The Lord was also called "the son of David." When Samuel went to find David to anoint him, David was keeping his father's sheep. You remember that it was the shepherds keeping watch over their flocks near Bethlehem who first received the news that the Savior had been born. The Lord afterward called Himself "the good shepherd." Sheep are gentle, trustful animals, and whenever a shepherd is mentioned in the Word, we should think of one who protects and cares for the virtues of gentleness, trust, and innocence. This is what the Lord wishes to do for us, and when we are in these good states, we may be sure that He is near us.

The anointing of David by Samuel was a sign that the Lord's support was transferred from Saul to David, but David was to have many experiences before he actually became king. Saul continued on the throne for many more years and David did all he could to help Saul, but Saul soon came to hate David because he saw that the Lord was with David instead of with himself. 1 Samuel 16:14-23 tells of the first association between Saul and David, when David was able to soothe Saul with his harp. David was called "the sweet psalmist" of Israel. Many of the Psalms were written by David under inspiration from the Lord. A psalm is a song of praise.

In our chapter for today what enemy is still attacking Israel?

Find on a map the valley of Elah where the two armies were drawn up. How did the Philistines propose to settle the conflict?

We have heard of giants before. Read Genesis 4:4. Some of the descendants of these giants from the Most Ancient Church were still living in the Holy Land when the children of Israel came back to it from Egypt. You remember the report of the spies (Numbers 13:22-23, 33). Read also Joshua 11:21-22. The giants picture the selfishness which is born in each one of us as a result of all the evils in our ancestors from the beginning. We usually think of selfishness as not wanting to share things with others. But this is only one rather obvious kind of selfishness. A much more common and serious kind is thinking of oneself as the most important thing in the world, wanting our own way, and blaming other people if we don't get it.

This selfishness, which Goliath pictures in our story, seems very big and powerful, and it is hard for us to make up our minds to face it. We say, "I can't help it: I was born that way." The Israelites were afraid to go out and fight Goliath. But David was not afraid of Goliath. Why wasn't he?

David could not wear Saul's armor because he had not "proved" it. Do you know that each of us gets for himself a kind of spiritual armor? (See Ephesians 6:11-17.) The truths which we learn and use are our armor. They protect us against evil and help us to resist it when it attacks us. But we hear many truths which we do not yet understand and which we have not tried to practice — they are of no immediate use to us because we have not "proved" them in our own lives. Evil, or selfishness, also uses truths to defend itself. We do this every time we argue in favor of something we want to do which we really know is wrong. Goliath had very powerful armor and weapons, didn't he?

What were David's weapons?

The stones had become smooth by long action of the water of the brook. They picture those truths from the Word which we have tried out and found effective and have stored up in our memories, as David put the stones in his shepherd's bag. Read Matthew 4:1-11 and see if you can pick out the "three smooth stones" which the Lord used against the devil when He was tempted in the wilderness.

Notice that David did not wait for Goliath to come to him. He ran to meet him boldly and attacked first.

What story have we had in which the men who were eager for the battle were the ones chosen?

David's first stone struck Goliath in the forehead, just as the Lord's quotation to the devil in each case hit right at the principle involved in the temptation.

Whose sword did David use to cut off Goliath's head?

This teaches us that after we have used the plain "Thou shalt not" of the Scriptures to stop our temptation short, we can pick up the arguments with which we were defending our selfishness and see how they really work just the other way.

