
=== Notes for Parents

Children always love the story of David and Goliath. Boys love to imagine themselves to be David. This is good, if only we can lead them to realize that David overcame Goliath not by his own physical strength or by the use of weapons like Goliath's, but because he trusted in the Lord's help and chose the weapons with which the Lord provided him.

We ourselves are so familiar with this story as one to tell to our children that sometimes we forget that it was not written just for children. Our own souls are the battleground on which the forces of the Lord and the forces of evil are drawn up against each other. The Philistines are in us, the temptation to be satisfied with ourselves and with what we know without trying to learn and do better all the time, the temptation to overestimate our own ability and to underestimate the importance of obedience to the Lord. The giant Goliath is our self-esteem, and his heavy weapons and armor are all the arguments we use to defend what we like to do. But the Lord sees to it that David is in us also, the shepherd boy who gained his wisdom and strength by defending his father's sheep, and who knew that if he obeyed the Lord, the Lord would give him victory. We all have some knowledge of the Lord and of His commandments, which we learned in childhood, and we all have some experience of the strength which comes from doing right.

And we all have David's weapons, the five smooth stones from the brook and the sling with which to use them. The brook is the Word of God and the stones are the simple statements in it which we have learned to believe because we have tested their truth. The sling is the power which the Lord has given each one of us to see how these truths apply to life and how we should direct them against our evils.

We have the Lord's own example to help us in understanding this story. When the Lord was tempted by the devil in the wilderness (Matthew 4:1-11), He did not argue with the devil. He used three quotations from the Word, three "smooth stones from the brook," and with each one He hit the particular temptation squarely "in the forehead." No matter how big and unconquerable our own special faults seem, everyone of us can overcome them just as David overcame Goliath, if we have trust in the Lord instead of in self, knowledge of what the Lord teaches us in His Word, and courage to use that knowledge.

