
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the Lord's Supper and what is actually accomplished through it constitute the lesson of first importance for the Intermediates. They will soon be joining the church and need particularly to feel the value of this step in its relation to the privilege of partaking of Communion.

---
We recall that when the Lord gave His disciples the instruction concerning the necessity of childlike acceptance of divine truth and when He told them that true greatness is in serving the Lord and the neighbor instead of in riches or in personal prominence, they were on their way to Jerusalem, the last journey the Lord would make on earth. From the Palm Sunday account you will remember that during His last week on earth the Lord at night lodged not in Jerusalem but in the village of Bethany not far away, in the home of His friends Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus.

The first incident in our chapter for today takes place in Bethany.

The Gospel of John (John 12:3) tells us that the woman who anointed the Lord with the precious ointment was Mary, and that it was Judas who voiced the objection to the act as a waste of money. The lesson which the Lord teaches us in this little story is the same that He teaches in another story about the same Mary in Luke 10:38-42, that there are things more important than material benefits. Love to the Lord and the desire to learn from Him are the most important of all. We should notice that here again the Lord told His disciples — if they had been willing to understand - that He was about to be put to death.

Then we have the story of the last Passover feast which the Lord ate with His disciples and of the first celebration of the Holy Supper. You remember that on Palm Sunday the Lord sent two of His disciples to find the donkey on which He was to ride into Jerusalem. Now He sends two to find the right place for the Passover feast and to prepare for it. The number two, as we learned in our lesson on the loaves and fishes, always means that we want to know the truth not just for its own sake but for the sake of doing it, that is, that our will and our understanding must go together if we are to accomplish anything. The Lord did not let the two find a place of their own choosing: they were to follow a man with a pitcher of water. This means that we must follow the truth which the Lord gives us in His Word. The place that they found was a "large upper room furnished and prepared." What they were about to do was to share with the Lord a very holy feast. We remember that a house represents our character. The upper room is the part of us which is above the level of merely worldly thoughts. We all have this upper room — the ability to think about the Lord and heavenly things - but we often keep it closed and unused. And sometimes we do not even bother to furnish and prepare it for receiving the Lord — we do not try to supply it with knowledge from the Word and to prepare it by trying to understand what the Lord wants of us.

For the people of the Old Testament the Passover was the greatest feast of the year, commemorating their deliverance from bondage in Egypt so long before. Have you ever wondered why we like to eat together? People of all nations have the same feeling; it is not just a tradition of our own. It isn't just because we all enjoy good food. There is something about sharing the same food that draws people closer together. This is because food and drink for the body correspond to food and drink for the soul — goodness and truth — and both come from the Lord, and to share the same goodness and truth is to be close together in spirit. At the Passover feast the disciples were closer to the Lord than at other times. Although they did not realize it, He was about to complete His work of delivering men from a worse slavery than the slavery in Egypt — from slavery to the power of evil. So at this time He gave them a new feast which for the Christian Church was to take the place of the Passover. We call this feast the Lord's Supper or the Holy Supper or Holy Communion.

The Lord called the bread and wine His body and blood. Some Christians take this literally and believe that by some mystical change the bread and wine are actually turned into the body and blood of Christ. But we know that material things are not the most important things. The Lord is really love and wisdom, or goodness and truth, and the bread and wine are symbols of this goodness and truth.

You are reaching the age — if you have not already reached it — when you will be confirmed and will join with older people in the Lord's Supper. In Revelation 3:20 the Lord says, "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me." We hear the Lord's voice when we obey His commandments. We open the door to Him when we put away selfish and worldly feelings and thoughts and let His unselfish love come into our hearts. Then, as we take the bread and wine, we should think that the Lord is present with us more closely than He can be in any other way, giving us with the bread and wine all that we need and can use of His goodness and truth. Remember that the Lord is always there and giving and that what we receive depends upon us.

There was one present at the Passover feast who took part in the new sacrament but was not in a state to receive goodness and truth from the Lord. This was Judas, who had already planned to betray Him. Judas represents everyone who pretends to be a follower of the Lord but is really seeking his own advantage. He also represents the selfish and worldly tendencies which are in every one of us, even when we are outwardly worshiping the Lord. If we are truly humble, we are conscious that we have these tendencies. You notice that when the Lord said to the apostles that one of them would betray Him, they did not begin to look suspiciously at each other. Each one began to be sorrowful, and to say, "Is it I?"

The story of the betrayal and of the Lord's trial before the high priest and of Peter's denial of Him is one you should read carefully, not just wondering how people could have done such things to the Lord long ago, but thinking how each of us to some extent does the same thing today, not being true and brave enough always to speak the truth and to do right.

