
=== Junior

The Juniors should be given in outline the whole story of the chapter, but special emphasis should be placed on the connection between the Passover feast and the institution of the Lord's Supper. If necessary, spend a little time in reviewing the origin of the Passover.

---
What did the Lord say about little children?

How did He say we must receive the kingdom of God?

What was the rich young man unwilling to do?

What did the Lord say about those who trust in riches?

What did He tell the disciples was about to happen to Him?

Why did they not understand Him?

What did He say we must do in order to be great in heaven?

What did He do for the beggar Bartimaeus?

In our Palm Sunday lesson we learned about the Lord's entry into Jerusalem, about how He drove the money-changers and dove-vendors out of the temple court, and how He taught in the temple. During that last week where did He go at night?

Who lived there?

Mary was the woman who is mentioned in the first part of our chapter for today (see also John 12:3). John also tells us that it was Judas who complained that the ointment should have been sold. Read John 12:4-6.

Why had the Lord come to Jerusalem?

What did the Passover commemorate?

You perhaps know that Jews today still celebrate the Passover as their greatest feast. And you know that Christians do not celebrate it. From our chapter for today we learn why this is. At the last Passover feast which He ate with His twelve apostles the Lord instituted a new feast to take its place. In the account given in Luke (22:19) it is recorded that the Lord said: "This do in remembrance of me." He called the bread His body and the wine His blood. You will perhaps have to be a little older to understand just what He meant by this, but we can all understand that the Lord, by coming into the world and fighting all the temptations we have to fight and even choosing death rather than doing anything He knew would be wrong, broke the power of evil which was getting control of men and made it possible for us to resist our temptations by His help. He saved us from slavery to the power of hell, a much worse slavery than the slavery to Egypt out of which Moses had led the children of Israel. So the Christian Church at specially appointed times celebrates the Lord's Supper in remembrance of Him.

You know that the Lord's Supper is also called Holy Communion.

To understand this name you might try to think why it is that we all enjoy eating together. We enjoy the food, of course, but it is more than that. While we eat together, we think and talk together - we "commune" with each other. We feel each other's close friendship and common interest. In the same way, when we eat the Holy Supper, we feel the closer presence of the Lord and the angels. You should look forward to the time when you are old enough to be confirmed and to share in this Holy Communion.

But there is more in our chapter. Once in a while our mealtime is not so happy as it should be. Someone in the family is out of harmony with the rest and, even if his "contrariness" does not come to open words, it disturbs the peace of all.

When the Lord said, "One of you will betray me, one who is eating with me," what did each of the disciples say?

This is just what each one of us should say to himself when we feel out of harmony with others. We should not place the blame on the others until we have carefully examined ourselves, and often we shall find that we ourselves are to blame.

Where did the Lord go after supper?

The prayer of the Lord at Gethsemane is an example to us when we are facing something which we know will be very hard for us. We all naturally wish that the Lord would not require hard things of us — that there may prove to be some easier ways — but we should keep in mind that the Lord never lets hard things come to us except for our good, and we should be willing to go bravely through any hard task which He sets before us.

Who betrayed the Lord?

How did Judas show the Lord's enemies whom to seize?

Read verses 51 and 52. This is the only Gospel in which this little incident is mentioned. It is possible that the young man was Mark himself. You remember that Mark's mother was one of the early Christians in Jerusalem.

Before whom was the Lord tried?

Of what did the high priest say He was guilty?

Why?

What did Peter do of which he was afterward ashamed?

We may wonder how Peter could have been so weak, but we do the same thing ourselves every time we are afraid or ashamed to stand up for what we know is right. To be able to speak out for what is right when everyone about you is bent on doing wrong shows the highest kind of courage.

