
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Even the little ones can understand the story of the last Passover and that what the Lord did then was the beginning of what we call the Lord's Supper or Holy Communion. They should look forward to sharing in it when they are older. The teacher should also tell the children briefly the story of the other events in the chapter, especially of the betrayal and the trial before the high priest.

---
Do you remember how on Palm Sunday the Lord rode into Jerusalem on a donkey and all the people cast palm branches before Him and cried "Hosanna"? This was very near the end of His life on earth. He and His disciples had come to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover, the most important of the feasts. It was a feast celebrated every year in memory of the time when under Moses the Lord led the people out of Egypt, where they had been slaves.

The preparations for this feast lasted several days and everything had to be done according to the directions the Lord had given Moses. The food was lamb roasted with herbs, and unleavened bread — that is, bread made without yeast. They drank wine with this feast.

Where did the Lord stay at night during the last week of His life on earth?

The Passover feast was always celebrated on Thursday evening.

Whom did the Lord send into Jerusalem from Bethany to prepare for the feast?

How did He tell them to find the right place?

Where in the house was the room which they used?

While they were eating, what did the Lord tell them one of them would do?

To "betray" means to help an enemy injure someone who considers you his friend.

What did the disciples all immediately begin to ask?

We, too, should be more concerned about our own faults than about those of others.

What did the Lord do with the bread and wine as they were eating?

What did He say the bread and wine were?

When you are older, you will understand what He meant.

This was the beginning of what we call the Holy Supper or the Lord's Supper or the Holy Communion.

Ever since the time of our story the Christian Church has celebrated this feast in place of the Passover. We celebrate it several times during the year.

Perhaps you have sat with your parents in church when it was being celebrated and watched the minister give them the bread and wine. You will share in this feast, too, when you are old enough to understand what it means and to be confirmed in the church. But you may learn now that it is a very holy feast celebrated in obedience to the Lord's command in remembrance of our being saved by His life on earth from slavery to the power of evil, a slavery worse than slavery to Egypt.

