
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
For this class the emphasis should be laid on the necessity of recognizing our own weakness and need of the Lord, and on what constitutes worthy approach to the Holy Supper, what we should be thinking of as we partake of it, and what the Lord does for us through it. The whole chapter may be taught with these emphases in mind.

---
In the Gospel of Luke (22:19) we are told that when, at the institution of the Holy Supper, the Lord gave thanks and broke the bread and gave it to the disciples, telling them that it was His body, He added, "This do in remembrance of me." The disciples did not realize — although they had been told — that this would be the last meal they would share with the Lord while He was in the flesh, but the Lord Himself knew it. Read verse 8 of our chapter. He was about to lay down His life for the salvation of mankind. The man who was to betray Him had already made his agreement with the priests, although he was present at the supper with the rest and the Lord shared the bread and wine with him also.

The Passover was celebrated in remembrance of the deliverance of the ancient Hebrews from bondage in Egypt. The Holy Supper is to be celebrated in remembrance of our deliverance from bondage to the hells by means of the Lord's victories over them when He was on earth. We should always have this in mind when we come to the Holy Supper. Judas is in each one of us as the temptation to love self and the world more than the Lord and the neighbor. When the Lord said that one of those present at the table would betray Him, each of the apostles began to ask, "Is it I?" The proper preparation for receiving the Lord's Supper worthily is honest self-examination. No one can do this for us. Each must do it for himself.

Eating together is the symbol of conjunction. We invite our friends to share a meal with us as a token of our friendship. We also know that when there is one person present at the table who is out of harmony with the rest, the enjoyment of all is lessened. The Lord is present in the Holy Supper whenever it is celebrated just as really as He was present with His disciples at its institution. The bread is His body and the wine His blood, goodness and truth from Him. If we recognize and put away our selfish and worldly feelings and thoughts and come to the Lord's table in the sincere desire to receive goodness and truth from Him, we shall draw close to Him and our souls will be fed, each according to his need.

In the Gospel of Matthew as well as in that of Mark the account of the institution of the Holy Supper is immediately preceded by the anointing of the Lord while He sat at supper in Bethany. John tells us that it was Mary, the sister of Martha and Lazarus, who anointed Him and that it was Judas who raised the objection that the precious ointment should rather have been sold and the money given to the poor. This is a picture of the contrast between genuine love to the Lord and the attitude of those who place virtue in externals. The Lord taught the true relation of these things in His words to the scribes and Pharisees in Matthew 23:23. We should not neglect the outward good works, but they are not the thing of first importance. The attitude of the heart and mind is the thing which determines whether external good works are genuine or hypocritical.

Study the prayer of the Lord in the Garden of Gethsemane. We should not think that the cup from which He asked to be delivered was the physical suffering on the cross. The Lord never spared His physical body or was concerned about it. The Lord could have saved Himself from the cross. We shall take up this question in our lesson on the crucifixion. The point to note here is that the spirit of this prayer of the Lord is our example when we are facing possible hardship or sorrow, and that it is in keeping with the petitions of the Lord's Prayer: "Lead us not into temptation," and, "Thy will be done." We should recognize our weakness and pray to be kept out of temptation, but when temptation comes, we should know that it is permitted by the Lord and that He sees that we are strong enough to resist it with His help if we choose, and that we shall profit by the experience.

You may sometimes hear people say that the Lord never claimed to be the Messiah. This is not true. There are several places in the Gospels where He makes the claim clearly. One of them is in verse 62 of our chapter and in verses 63 and 64 we are told that it was this very claim which the high priest made the basis for condemning Him. We need to read the Gospels often and with attention so that we may be sure for ourselves of the recorded facts. People are sometimes very blind to things they do not want to see.

Finally in our chapter there is the story of Peter's denial of the Lord. Read first verses 27 to 31 and then 66 to 72. This incident, too, teaches our own weakness and constant need of guidance and strength from the Lord. Peter was one of the three closest followers of the Lord, one of the four first called to follow Him. Like Reuben, the oldest son of Jacob, he represents faith. How strong is our faith? If, like Peter, we are inclined to boast of our devotion to the Lord - even to ourselves — we shall soon be tested, and we may need to be shown how weak we really are. When we see someone else yield to temptation, we are very apt to feel that we should have been stronger if the same temptation had come to us. But we should remember that each person's temptations are different from those of any other. We never know just when or in what form our own temptations will come, but we should know that we can never meet them in our own strength. We need the Lord's help from day to day. We get this help by keeping close to Him through regular reading of the Word, through prayer, through regular worship, and especially through the Lord's Supper when we go to it in the right spirit.

