
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Older Children: What did the Lord say about little children? of such is kingdom of heaven

Older Children: What did the rich young man ask? what must I do to inherit eternal life?

Older Children: What did the Lord tell him to do as the first thing necessary? obey commandments

Younger Children: What was the young man not willing to do? give up his riches

Older Children: What did the Lord say about [trust in] riches? makes it hard to enter heaven

Younger Children: What did James and John want? seats of honor

Older Children: What did the Lord say true greatness is? being servant to all

Older Children: When the Lord was at supper in Bethany, what did a woman do for Him? anointed Him

Older Children: What did some of the disciples say? this was wasteful

Older Children: What did the Lord tell them? she has done a beautiful thing

Younger Children: How did the Lord tell the two disciples to find the house where they should prepare the Passover feast? follow man with water jar

Younger Children: Where was the room in the house? upstairs

Older Children: What did the Passover commemorate? release from Egyptian slavery

Younger Children: When the Lord told the disciples that one of them would betray Him, what did each one ask? "Is it I?"

Younger Children: What did the Lord do with the bread and wine as they were eating? blessed, gave to disciples

Younger Children: Of what Christian sacrament was this the beginning? Holy Supper

Younger Teens: What do the bread and wine represent? divine goodness and truth

Older Children: Where did the Lord go after supper? Gethsemane

Older Children: What was His prayer there? to "remove cup"

Older Children: Who betrayed the Lord? Judas Iscariot

Older Children: How did he betray Him? with a kiss

Older Children: Where was the Lord taken to be tried? before the high priest

Older Teens: What accusation did the high priest make against Him? Why? blasphemy, claimed to be the Christ

Older Children: What did Peter do which he had been sure he would not do? denied the Lord three times

Older Teens: What do we commemorate in the Holy Supper? our redemption from power of evil


