
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
What is involved in being a Christian is perhaps the chief topic which this chapter presents to the Adults — what is meant by receiving the Lord as king, and our individual responsibility in the decisions which follow.

---
The Lord's triumphal entry into Jerusalem is recorded in all four Gospels, some giving more detail than others. John links it closely with the miracle of the raising of Lazarus, saying that many people hailed the Lord as the Messiah because He had performed this miracle. When we realize the Lord's power to bring us back from spiritual death, we are prepared to welcome Him into the "holy city" of our minds as king and savior. He comes riding upon a young donkey as a symbol of His subordination of natural reason, which the donkey represents, and is greeted with joy. Palm branches picture divine truth in the sense of the letter of the Word, and the waving of the palm branches suggests the joy which comes from the realization that the Lord's truth does bring life and happiness (@AC 8369; @AR 367). Hosanna means "save now."

The people, even the disciples, were still thinking of the Lord as a temporal king, one who would save them from their enemies and lead them to victory. Our first recognition of the Lord's power is often of this character. We are thinking of our own welfare, our own salvation. The Lord's entry into Jerusalem was "the beginning of the end." Our first full acceptance of the Lord is followed immediately by temptations more severe than any we have known before. This is because we must be purified of natural thoughts and selfish motives. The first three Gospels emphasize the more external consequences of the entry into Jerusalem, the cleansing of the temple, which pictures the examination of our thoughts for selfish and worldly things which may be polluting them, the incident of the barren fig tree, which points to the necessity of bringing forth fruit, and the Lord's weeping over Jerusalem, the realization of the extent of our departure from the Lord, which comes to us as soon as we begin genuinely to try to bring ourselves under His rule. But John characteristically teaches us the depth of the change which must take place in us if we are really to follow the Lord.

First we have the reaction of the Pharisees (John 12:19), the immediate stirring up of the Pharisee in us — our vanity and self-satisfaction — against this new, deep allegiance to the Lord. The good Gentiles always represent our good impulses which have no truth to guide them, and the Greeks perhaps especially intellectual need for the truth, for a rational understanding of the Lord. They appealed first to Philip, the Jew with the Greek name which means "lover of horses," thus representing the quality of intelligence, and sought introduction to the Lord through him, with the help of Andrew, who represents obedience. It requires both intelligence and obedience to bring us into a state in which the Lord can really teach us concerning Himself and the requirements of true discipleship. The Lord's discourse from John 12:23 on is an answer to this desire to understand rationally the earthly life of the Lord.

There can be no simpler explanation of the Lord's whole life and purpose than the parable of the "grain of wheat." The living kernel in each of us is the soul. Until the soul is developed, it needs the external coverings of mind and body which envelop it in this world, but these are of value only as they minister to its proper growth. It cannot produce its final fruits until the material wrappings have been cast off, as they are by the death of the body. With the Lord the inner living kernel was the Divine Itself, the outer wrappings the finite humanity. This finite had to be put off completely before His divine humanity could exercise its full power. So the Lord had to pass through death. But death is only the last act in the putting off of the outer coverings. As we have seen before, the Lord throughout His life was putting off the finite through temptations, and replacing it with the Divine.

We can perform a similar work with His help. So far as we persistently subordinate worldly considerations to spiritual ones, by doing the Lord's will instead of our own, we become spiritual men and women instead of natural ones even while we are living in this world. The life which we are to hate is the selfish nature into which we are born. The life which we should seek to keep "unto life eternal" is the regenerate life which we receive from the Lord as we learn and do His will. In every situation which we face from day to day we feel the pull of both natures, the lower or worldly and the higher or heavenly; we are free to yield to either, but so far as we choose either we reject the other. That the Lord, to the very end, felt these two appeals just as we do is evidenced in our chapter, for He says: "Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour; but for this cause came I unto this hour. Father, glorify thy name." The first alternative came from His finite nature, the second from His divine nature, and His soul was troubled because of the conflict. The fact that our choice is free and not enforced by any authority or fate is shown in the rest of the chapter, in which it is evident that some believed and others did not. Those who wished to follow the Lord found conviction in His miracles and in His teachings: they believed in the light. But those who did not wish to follow Him were blind to the truth, and were permitted to remain blind because if they had acknowledged His divinity and then had not followed Him, their sin would have been greater.

In John 12:47-48 the Lord shows us plainly that the responsibility rests with us. He came into the world that all men who wished the truth might have it and be saved. The Lord condemns no one. His love and truth are free to all. "He maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust." (Matthew 5:45) Those who choose to open their hearts to His love also see His truth when it is presented to them. "He that is of God heareth God's words." (John 8:47) Thus the truth, the Lord's Word, is our judge, for if we do not hear and obey it, it is only because we voluntarily choose self-love, which is the life of the hells. That is, our choice of the Lord or of self while we are in this world builds our souls into forms of heaven or hell, and when the outer covering of this world is laid off at death, the form which we ourselves have made determines our final home.

So the entry of the Lord into Jerusalem, our recognition of the Lord as the true king of our souls, ushers in the real conflict between heaven and the world in our hearts and minds, which is a conflict to the death, the death of heaven or the death of the world, as we choose.

