
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the Palm Sunday story and of the incident of the Greeks and Philip and Andrew introduces the general teaching of our need for putting the welfare of our souls above that of our bodies. Since this was the avowed example which the Lord set, it should be one of the distinguishing marks of every Christian.

The actual story of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday takes only four verses in the Gospel of John. It is told in much more detail in the other Gospels. However, we need to remind ourselves of the facts and of their meaning. At the beginning of the last week of His earthly life the Lord entered Jerusalem as its king, in fulfillment of the prophecy in Zechariah 9:9. He rode upon a young donkey, or a donkey's colt, the symbol of natural truth, to picture the fact that He had completely mastered the inclination of the assumed human nature to judge things by their outward appearance and to make decisions on the basis of results in this world.

The palm branches which the people carried correspond to "Divine truth in ultimates" or "Divine truth of the sense of the letter" of the Word. The Jews had the Scriptures. They knew from the literal prophecy that the Messiah was to enter Jerusalem in this way as king of Israel. So they hailed Him as king. But their idea of a king was a wholly worldly one. They took it for granted that the Messiah, when He came, would overthrow the power of Rome and restore their nation to first place in the world. It was because the Lord immediately showed by His words and acts that He had no such purpose that the very people who had hailed Him as king on Palm Sunday shouted for His crucifixion on the next Friday. We should always remember that the Lord's concern is with our souls. If in the case of any particular individual He sees that constant health and prosperity are possible without "spoiling" him spiritually, then He is happy to permit these worldly blessings — and He also often permits them to such selfish people as He sees could not be benefited by adversity — but often people need adversities either to check them in wrongdoing or to stimulate the development in them of understanding and sympathy and spiritual strength. Then adversities come. If we take the attitude that the Lord ought to keep all His professed followers from any earthly suffering, we are like those who welcomed the Lord and then crucified Him.

John's account of Palm Sunday is concerned principally with the Lord's teaching on that day. Perhaps we think it strange that in the letter this teaching is prompted by the request of "certain Greeks" to see Jesus, a request which in the letter is apparently ignored by the Lord. The Greeks of that day were Gentiles and, like the Samaritans, picture those in good states who do not have the truth they need to guide them, and the Greeks characteristically were of a higher degree of intelligence than the Samaritans. Swedenborg does not give us the correspondence of Philip, but, though a Jew, he had a Greek name, a name which means "lover of horses," and horses picture our higher reasoning faculty. So Philip may be thought of as representing intelligence in a person of the church. That he was of an inquiring mind we may gather from the other incidents in the Gospel of John in which he figures (1:43-46; 6:5-7; 14:6-11). Andrew, we are told, represents obedience. These two qualities are necessary if we are to "see" the Lord. And the Lord's answer is really the answer the Gentiles were seeking. They were not looking for an earthly king, but for a teacher who would make clear to their minds the true way of life so that they might walk in it.

So Jesus said, "The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified." Then He showed them why He must pass through death. It was because men must be brought to see that it is not what happens to their bodies that is important, but what kind of soul they are developing within them. This is beautifully taught in John 12:24-26 of our chapter, verses which we should all read and think about again and again. We should all begin as early in life as we can to think of our bodies as mere tools, and of our life in the world as our opportunity to form our souls into a heavenly pattern by resisting our selfish impulses and learning to serve the Lord and the neighbor.

We should notice also John 12:42 and 43. How often we are afraid to stand up for what we know to be true and right! The Lord came into the world to be its light, to show us how to live so that we may be happy forever. He came to save us from ourselves. Some people think of the Lord as a stern judge, condemning those who do not accept Him. He tells us in this chapter, as well as in other places in the Word, that He does not judge and condemn. He seeks only to save. But we condemn ourselves by choosing to live for self and the world after He has shown us the better way.

