
=== Primary

This is a good lesson in which to give the younger children an idea of the purpose of the Lord's life on earth, and the reason why some people loved Him and others hated Him. The contrast between His triumphal entry into Jerusalem and what He knew was to come can be shown. Draw as much as possible from the children themselves.

---
This week is a very special week in the church, for in it we are thinking of the last week of the Lord's life on earth. God Himself long ago came into the world as our Lord Jesus to show us how we ought to live. He let Himself be born as a little baby in Bethlehem and grow up just as we do and finally die as we all do and then rise again from death, as we all do. And we know that, if we try, by studying His life and trying to live as He taught us to live, we can become more and more the kind of people He wants us to be, and that He is always near us and ready to help us.

You know that the Lord had many enemies when He was in the world, because He always told the truth, and people who want their own way do not like anyone who tells them that their way is wrong. Are you ever like that? The scribes and Pharisees hated the Lord so much that they finally had Him put to death.

Because the Lord was God, He knew that this was going to happen. He came to Jerusalem on Sunday, at the beginning of His last week, knowing that on Friday He would be crucified. His disciples did not know it, and neither did the people who welcomed Him. Let us read the story of how He entered Jerusalem and of some of the things He told His disciples at that time. [Read John 12:12-24.]

The feast to which our chapter refers was the Passover.

How did the people receive the Lord?

Why do we call this Palm Sunday?

What kind of animal did the Lord ride into Jerusalem?

The Gospel of John says the crowd went to meet Him because they had heard that he had raised Lazarus from death.

What did the Lord say about a grain, or kernel, of wheat?

What He meant was that His death would teach us something we could not have learned without it.

On Easter Sunday we shall see what that something is.

