
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There is plenty of discussion material here, especially in the thought that "natural good" - which is Esau — is never pure or trustworthy, and that our real spiritual progress is dependent upon Jacob, our interest in truth.

---
Swedenborg says: "There are in every man an internal man, a rational man that is intermediate, and an external, which is properly called the natural man. With the Lord these were represented by Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob" (@AC 1893). The Abraham stage with us is our infancy, when the internal man is open to the heavens and is filled by the Lord with "remains" — innocent, trustful, happy states which can later be used in our regeneration. Then we develop into the rational or Isaac stage, and finally are ready to carry out in everyday life the knowledges and affections which we have developed in the previous stages. The rest of our life, if we regenerate, is spent in developing and then in bringing into order this natural or external plane and in gradually bringing it to act as the servant of the inner planes. So, although Abraham and Isaac come first, and in one sense are higher than Jacob, their descendants are called the seed of Jacob or the children of Israel (Israel being the name later given to Jacob by the Lord), and their history occupies the rest of the Old Testament. Our story today deals with Jacob and his elder twin Esau, and of how Jacob instead of Esau came to be head of the family. We have spoken before of the two divisions of our lives, symbolized by the two rooms in the ark — the will and the understanding. The natural plane of our lives has these two divisions, and they are pictured by Esau and Jacob, Esau good in the natural plane, and Jacob truth in the same plane. They are twins because the will and the understanding, good and truth, go together as equals in us from the beginning.

Esau is actually the elder because all power is from the will, even the power to think, and influx from the Lord or from the hells primarily affects our wills. Throughout most of our life, however, Jacob supplants Esau, because we have to learn what is right before we can do it: our understanding appears to take first place. The Lord permits this change, this inversion of the true order, to meet the changed conditions caused by man's turning to self and perverting his will. That is, because by inheritance our will is selfish, we cannot safely be guided by it but must be taught what is right. Jacob instead of Esau must be head of our house. But we note that Esau eventually is to break off the yoke of his brother. This means that when we are regenerated, when we have practiced doing as truth teaches until the Lord has been able to give us a new will, then we may again be ruled by our will and do as we please freely.

The literal story of Esau and Jacob has proved a stumbling block to those who believe that all those in the letter of the Word whom the Lord favors must be exemplary characters. Here is a man who cheated, lied, and stole, and yet was allowed to keep the fruits of his deception and to become the ancestor of the Lord's chosen people. How can we "get around" this obvious fact? In the New Church we do not have to get around it. The Bible characters, with the exception of our Lord, are not in themselves exemplary. Many of them are evil men, doing evil deeds. But the Lord can make use even of their evil deeds to teach us the ins and outs of our own souls and the nature of the humanity which He assumed and glorified. He makes use of evil to show how His providence foresees and provides for all our states and tries to lead us back to Him, however far we may have departed. In the inmost sense, which relates to the life of the Lord, the Word is all true and beautiful. In the inner sense, which relates to our own states, we see the Lord's love and truth acting upon our degenerate human nature in the effort to save us. In the letter we see this struggle acted out upon the stage of real life by the Hebrew nation, the nation chosen to portray it. Thus even in the letter, if we keep the whole face of it in mind when studying any given story, we can see good and evil, truth and falsity at work and trace their effects. We must not expect the letter to portray ideal conditions.

The objection to the story of Jacob and Esau is based on the desire to have all evil punished immediately and obviously. This is not the Lord's desire; it is a very earthly one. The Lord desires to show us our evils and to turn us from them, never to punish. Evil punishes itself, often not immediately or obviously, but surely in the end. The results of Jacob's evils can easily be traced in his fear of Esau not only immediately after his deed but even twenty years later when he returned and sought reconciliation with his brother. Furthermore, Esau himself is far from exemplary. He is willing to sell his birthright — his proper future — to satisfy his immediate physical hunger. Here is a lesson which all can see and understand. How often we put present pleasure above future good! How often for the sake of some trivial thing which we want now we do what we know is injuring our character and our prospects, and even what we know will bring us pain and sorrow later! We know that our eternal happiness depends upon our keeping the commandments, yet we continually allow carelessness, laziness, cowardice, and selfishness to lead us to break them. We know that our spiritual progress depends upon our learning about the Lord and doing His will, yet we let ourselves become absorbed in worldly pursuits and pleasures and neglect our regular reading of the Word and the writings and our worship of the Lord. We know that we are higher than animals just because we have spiritual possibilities which they do not have, yet we choose to live on the level of earthly satisfactions like animals. We think Esau was very foolish, but we do as he did every day.

We have seen that Esau pictures good, and Jacob truth, in the natural plane of our minds. We should all agree that the really important thing is to be good. Esau is the elder twin and the rightful head of the family. Why then does the Lord permit Jacob to supplant Esau? Why do we have to try to keep on learning truth, studying the Word and trying to understand it more and more deeply? If we do what we think is right, is not this all that can be expected of us? Many people today answer this question in the affirmative. Yet have we not often done what we thought was right and found out afterward that it was just the wrong thing? This is our key to the true answer. There is indeed some good in everyone. The Lord has seen to that. But there is also in each of us by our natural inheritance a great deal of evil, and we cannot distinguish between good and evil without truth from the Lord. If we think of ourselves as naturally good and as competent to judge right and wrong without instruction from the Lord, we shall judge and act from evil impulses quite as often as from good ones, and presently we shall believe that whatever we think is true and whatever we want is good, and then we shall be unable to see any fault in ourselves or to improve ourselves in any way. No matter how well we are brought up, we never come to the point in this life when we can safely act from impulse without thought, and our standards are never perfect. Our wills are never wholly pure. We must keep on learning more and more of the Lord's truth and apply it to deeper and deeper states in ourselves. For all our time on earth, Jacob must be the head of our house and Esau must serve him. Not until we get to heaven, where our wills are wholly satisfied to serve the Lord, will Esau be able to take his rightful place.

