
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@DP 234: "There are no laws of permission by themselves or apart from the laws of the Divine providence, but the two are the same; therefore God is said to permit, which does not mean that He wills, but that on account of the end, which is salvation, He cannot avert. Whatever is done for the sake of the end, which is salvation, is according to the laws of the Divine providence. For the Divine providence ... is constantly moving in a way diverse from and contrary to man's will, continually intent upon its end; and in consequence, at every movement of its operation or at every step of its progress, where it observes man to be swerving from that end, it guides, bends, and directs him according to its laws, by leading him away from evil and leading him to good. That this cannot be done without the permission of evil will be seen in what follows. Moreover, nothing can be permitted without a reason, and the reason can be found only in some law of the Divine providence, which law teaches why it is permitted."

Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: Whom did Isaac marry? Rebekah

Primary: Where did she come from? Haran

Primary: What two sons did Isaac and Rebekah have? Esau and Jacob

Primary: Which was the firstborn? Esau

Primary: How were they different? Esau hairy and red; Jacob smooth

Primary: What did Esau sell to Jacob? birthright

Primary: What did he get for it? "mess of pottage"

Primary: Which son was Isaac's favorite? Esau

Primary: Which was Rebekah's favorite? Jacob

Junior: When Isaac was old, how did Rebekah help Jacob to deceive him? prepared meat, put goat's hair on Jacob

Primary: What did Isaac give Jacob that Esau should have had? blessing of firstborn

Primary: How did Esau feel about it? wanted to kill Jacob

Intermediate: What do Esau and Jacob represent? natural will, natural understanding

Senior: Why did the Lord permit Jacob to supplant Esau? to show that we must not be led by selfish will

== JACOB'S DREAM — Genesis 28

We have three easy points of connection between this story and those which have preceded it, points which help us to review. And we must review regularly if we are to present the Bible as a continued story and not just as a number of separate stories. The three points are: first, Jacob's relation to Isaac and to Abraham; second, the place Haran; and third, the place Bethel.

