
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this lesson the general correspondence of Jacob and Esau is taken up first because it completes the Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob series. The young people should have these patriarchs and their general meaning very clearly in mind before they go on. The reason for Jacob's taking precedence over Esau can be related to the correspondence of Isaac. That is, we need to know truth and to reason from spiritual principles. This is a good opportunity to be sure that the young people understand that the New Church does not teach that all Bible characters are examples to be imitated. The Younger Teens are old enough to understand how this can be, and to recognize it without losing any of their reverence for the Word.

---
Abraham died and was gathered to his people. The childhood state of simple obedience in our lives passes away finally and is replaced by the rule of the rational, which is Isaac. As we grow out of our young childhood, our minds develop and we begin to think for ourselves and finally to act independently. Isaac represents the thinking and Jacob and Esau the acting period. Our independent lives are developing and progressing, but at the same time they are coming down from the high plane of innocence and trust which characterized our infancy to the level of the outside world. Here our life is clearly divided between our desires and our knowledge — Esau and Jacob. The Lord wants both to be good, to be led by Him, but by nature we are selfish and lacking in wisdom. Both Esau and Jacob were faulty. And our desires and our knowledge conflict, just as there was trouble between Esau and Jacob.

Esau, Isaac's firstborn son, pictures the love or desire side and Jacob the truth or thought side of our activity in the world. Desire comes first. If we had no desires, we should neither think nor act. But in order to do what we want we must first learn how. So actually Jacob has to take the first place for a time. Jacob means "supplanter." He supplants his older brother.

The character of Jacob in the Bible has puzzled some people; they have assumed that anyone the Lord prospered must have been a thoroughly good person and meant for us to copy. But this is not so. The people in the Bible had good and bad qualities, just as we have, and we are to learn from their stories, even in the letter, what not to do as well as what to do, and about the Lord's tender and merciful dealing with men even when they make serious mistakes. Jacob took a mean advantage of his brother, but Esau also did wrong in despising his birthright — the cherished right of the firstborn to follow his father as head of the family — and giving it away to satisfy his hunger. It may seem to us very unlikely that he would really do this. Yet we do the same sort of thing constantly. We are always giving up something important which we might have at some future time for the sake of some unimportant thing we happen to want right now. Our birthright is the right to know and love the Lord — that is what makes us men instead of animals — to be "sons of God" and to "inherit the kingdom of heaven." Whenever we sacrifice our Christian ideals for the sake of some worldly satisfaction which we want at the moment, we are selling our birthright for a mess of pottage. Jacob could not have cheated Esau if Esau had not yielded to temptation. We sometimes feel, as Esau did, that we shall "die" if we do not get what we want, but the Lord will always give us strength to resist temptation if we really try.

In the second part of our lesson Jacob pretends to be Esau.

We often pretend to be the kind of people we wish we were. The Lord knows our real motives. But He does not take away his blessing, since it is better for us to do right from selfish motives than not to do right at all, and this is one of the ways in which we form good habits and gradually come to love doing what is right. Esau, too, was a mixture of good and bad. He wanted to be blessed and was willing to obey his father and to take a great deal of trouble to procure the blessing. But he was also ready to kill his brother because of his disappointment. When we do not get what we want, don't we sometimes want to hurt somebody? Esau and Jacob in their youth were both thoroughly selfish just as we are in the beginning.

It was a long time before Jacob and Esau were reconciled, and both had to go through years of hard work and discipline first. It takes all our lives in this world to bring our desires and our thinking together in the service of the Lord.

