
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Have the children trace again on a map the journey of Abram from Ur to Canaan, find Haran, and remind them of Nahor's settling there. This will introduce Rebekah, as Nahor's granddaughter. There are several lessons suggested in the Junior notes which children of this age can easily understand. Stress especially the fact that when we do wrong, we always suffer for it sooner or later, even though at the time we may seem to "get away with it."

---
Whom did Isaac marry?

Where did she come from?

Isaac and Rebekah lived together for twenty years before they had children. Then they had twin sons.

What were their names?

Which was the firstborn?

Were they identical twins?

Esau means "hairy," and Edom, the other name by which Esau is called, means "red." You want to remember that Esau was the father of the Edomites, who appear several times in the Bible story, usually as enemies of the Israelites.

Verses 29 to 34 of chapter 25 tell how both Esau and Jacob did wrong. In the King James Version there are some unfamiliar words in the story. Pottage is something cooked in a pot, like soup or stew. Sod is an old past tense of the verb seethe and means "boiled." The birthright was the right of the oldest son to become head of the family after his father's death. Lentils are any kind of bean or pea; there are several varieties, one of which is red.

Jacob did wrong in taking advantage of his brother's hunger and weakness to drive a sharp bargain, and Esau did wrong in giving up a valuable privilege to satisfy his appetite. Whenever we do something wrong in order to get something we happen to want very much at the moment, we are "selling our birthright for a mess of pottage"; this is a common expression taken from this story. What do you think our "birthright" really is? Read Matthew 25:31-34. We are different from animals in that we are capable of learning about the Lord and obeying Him, and thus of coming to love Him and be "inheritors" of His kingdom in heaven. We can think about His will and judge whether the things we want to do are good or bad in His sight. Animals cannot think about God or about right and wrong. They are governed by their instincts and appetites. So whenever we let ourselves be governed by our natural desires, we are putting ourselves on the level of animals and "selling our birthright."

Which son was the favorite of Isaac?

Which was Rebekah's favorite?

When Isaac was very old and almost blind and knew it was nearly time for him to die, he wanted to give Esau his blessing — the special blessing which was the right of the firstborn. This was customary among the Jews. The Bible records several instances of it. The father's final blessing was very precious to the son.

What did Isaac ask Esau to do for him?

Why did Rebekah want Jacob to deceive his father?

How did she help him do it?

Isaac was doubtful. He said, "The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau." Still, he gave him the blessing. When Jacob was gone and Esau came in with his venison and Isaac knew that he had been deceived, he said he could not take back the blessing.

Does it seem strange that Jacob should have been permitted to get his blessing by deceit? Jacob did not go unpunished for his wrongdoing. He had to flee from his brother's anger and spend many long years far from home, and finally he had to bow down before his brother and ask his forgiveness. The Lord used the people in the Bible just as they were, to teach lessons which you will understand when you are a little older. He made even their wrongdoing serve a use. We must study the stories carefully to find the lessons and not think that because someone was blessed by the Lord, everything he did was right. We know that we often do wrong things, and yet think of all the blessings the Lord gives us!

Read carefully the blessing Isaac gave Jacob and the blessing he gave Esau. We shall see that both these blessings were fulfilled. Esau's plan to kill his brother shows something of his character, just as his willingness to sell his birthright does.

Rebekah's plan to save Jacob was also used by the Lord. It started a whole train of circumstances which we shall study in our later lessons. Everything we do, every decision we make, changes the course of our lives. We should try hard, therefore, to learn to make wise and right decisions.

Where was Haran?

Who lived there?

