
=== Notes for Parents

Rebekah, Isaac's wife, came from Haran. When Abraham and his family took the long journey from their home in Ur of Chaldea to the land of Canaan, his brother Nahor started the journey with him but stopped part way at Haran, and decided to settle there. Rebekah was Nahor's granddaughter. The Jews were many times commanded not to intermarry with the people among whom they happened to live. In this way their line was kept pure. The deeper reason for the prohibition was, of course, that they might not be drawn away into other religions.

Isaac and Rebekah had no children for twenty years, and then the twins Esau and Jacob were born. They were not identical twins. Esau was red and hairy — his other name Edom means "red" — while Jacob was a "smooth" man. And Esau was a "cunning hunter, a man of the field," while Jacob stayed at home tending the flocks and herds. Esau was his father's favorite, and Jacob was his mother's.

We have seen in past lessons that the people in the Bible stories were far from perfect. This is clearly illustrated in our two stories for today. Jacob in the first place drove a shrewd bargain with his brother, but Esau's fault was even greater, in being willing to sacrifice his proper future in order to satisfy his immediate physical hunger. Esau, as the firstborn, was entitled to the birthright, the right to be his father's heir. He was also entitled to the better blessing from his father, and here both Jacob and Rebekah obviously did wrong. But when the deceit was successfully carried out, Esau was so angry that he determined to kill his brother. There was not much to choose between Esau and Jacob.

In the Bible we often find stories about pairs of brothers: Cain and Abel, Joseph's two sons Ephraim and Manasseh, and in the New Testament Peter and Andrew and James and John. In our progress through life everything we "bring forth" has a twofold character, including both intention and thought, will and understanding. We know that Abraham represents our innocent little childhood; and Isaac, the development of our reasoning faculty. Esau and Jacob follow. They represent the period when young people are beginning their independent lives in the world, taking jobs or going away to college, standing on their own feet for the first time apart from their parents. Esau, the firstborn, is the natural will at this time, and Jacob is the understanding. Both are faulty. The point of our Bible story is that although the will is primary — we never do anything which is not prompted by a desire of some kind — it is always necessary for us to set our understanding before our will, to think before we act, even when our thoughts are very imperfect, and to control our impulses until we have learned to be really wise and to prefer to do the right things.

