
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson can be centered on the first story about the selling of the birthright. Be sure to explain what a birthright was. The later story can be read at the end, if there is time. Try to teach the children the names Esau and Jacob, but keep in their minds especially the series of names Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They should be able to see that both Esau and Jacob did wrong, and that they both suffered as a result.

---
You remember that when Abraham started out from his home in Ur to go to the land of Canaan, his brother Nahor went with him but did not go all the way. He stopped about halfway, at a place called Haran, and settled there.

After Isaac grew up, Abraham did not want him to marry any of the Canaanite women; so he sent his most trusted servant back to Haran to find a wife for Isaac in his own brother's family. The servant brought back Nahor's granddaughter Rebekah, and Isaac was very happy to marry her.

Isaac and Rebekah had no children for twenty years. But finally they had twins, whom they named Esau and Jacob.

Which was the firstborn?

Were the twins alike?

What did Esau like to do?

What did Esau ask Jacob to give him?

What bargain did Jacob make with him?

Esau was very foolish to sell his birthright just to satisfy his hunger, and Jacob did wrong to take advantage of his brother in this way. And later he did something still worse.

Which of the twins was Isaac's favorite?

Which was Rebekah's favorite?

When Isaac was old, what did he ask Esau to do?

Rebekah helped Jacob to deceive his father by pretending to be Esau.

When Esau came back with his venison, his father was very much upset, but he told him he could not take back the blessing he had given Jacob. He gave Esau a different blessing — really a better one (see Genesis 27:39-40) - but Esau was still so angry that he said he was going to kill Jacob. So Rebekah persuaded Isaac to send Jacob away to Haran, her former home, for a long visit.

