
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Call the attention of the Seniors to the collateral lines which develop from the characters who are dropped by the way: the Moabites and Ammonites from Lot, the Ishmaelites from Ishmael, and now the Edomites from Esau. These tribes represent thoughts and feelings which we develop at various stages and which remain in our background and come up to trouble us later. We are tracing one thread — the Lord's influence in our lives — but there are other "side lines" branching off here and there from the true line, all of which must eventually be brought into order and under the control of the Lord. This will help to relate the Sunday school lessons to the young people's school and home and recreational activities, and will help to show them the primary importance of religious instruction.

---
The obvious lesson of the literal story of our first chapter is summed up in the common expression "selling one's birthright for a mess of pottage"; for everyone can see that Esau made a foolish trade, and we know, if we really look at ourselves honestly, that we are all frequently tempted to grasp at some present outward satisfaction at the sacrifice of a future great and more interior good.

But the deeper lessons of the chapter are hidden. We need first to realize that with the birth of Esau and Jacob, we reach the third and final stage in our development from infancy to manhood. We all like to look back upon our early childhood, and we recognize the beauty of its innocent, trusting spirit; but the time comes when our thinking must be made actual in deeds. The rational stage of our development — the Isaac stage — must end, and we must begin to seek an independent place in the external life of the world. Esau and Jacob represent this external, "practical" plane of life. And because it is in the carrying out of our purposes that we must finally be specific, it is here that the separation between will and thought, desire and knowledge, becomes evident.

So now instead of a single son we have twins. Esau pictures the will and Jacob the intellect: twin brothers yet often in conflict. The will is the firstborn because there must be motive before there can be any thought. But because the human will is by birth selfish, the intellect must for a time take first place. The selfishness and shortsightedness of our natural affections and impulses are pictured in Esau's willingness to give up his whole future to satisfy his present physical hunger.

In our second story Isaac is old and his eyes are dim. When we pass from the thinking stage of our teens to active, independent life, we are likely to become so absorbed in the external affairs of every day that we do not see clearly for a time. We are easily deceived by appearances. Our wills are not yet unselfish. The wild game which Esau brought for his father represents our own ideas of goodness with which we like to be satisfied. Jacob is permitted to substitute two kids of the goats, which represent genuine goodness, though of a natural kind. So our minds help us, although at this stage it is necessary that the truth be made to seem desirable: Jacob puts on Esau's clothing and puts the skins of the goats on his hands and on the back of his neck to make himself appear like Esau.

This does not mean that Jacob did right. The Lord permitted the deception to teach us that a selfish will must not be allowed to lead us. We must learn the truth and follow it even though we at first imagine that the truth came out of our own minds, and praise ourselves for thinking of it. This is what is represented by Isaac's words, "The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau."

In the literal story Jacob paid a heavy penalty. He, the more home—loving of the two brothers, had to start off alone and serve many years in a strange land before he was allowed to return and enjoy his inheritance. Haran, to which he went, represents a state of simple obedience. After we have developed our faculties and begun our independent life in the world, we have to go through a long period of doing right just because we know we ought to, before the Lord can develop in us the real love of truth and goodness which enables us to enter into our true spiritual home.

