
=== Adult

This is a wonderful chapter in which to bring out the completeness of detail with which the Lord gives us our instruction in the Word. The basis of regenerate living is all here. Nothing is omitted and nothing given here can be neglected.

The entry of the children of Israel into the Holy Land pictures the beginning of the period of regeneration as distinguished from the period of reformation. If we continue to follow the pillar of cloud and fire — if we obey the commands of the Lord as they come to us in the Word — our regrets and rebellions will die away one by one and we shall actually reach the point at which the Lord can give us a new will which is good. This does not mean that the old selfish will is gone and that we have no more work to do. Swedenborg tells us (@AC 3200) that our regeneration must go on throughout this life and to eternity in the other, for an individual "can never be perfected." But with the beginning of regeneration our rebellion is over. We are consciously and willingly on the Lord's side, and the Lord's power is so obvious to us that the promptings of the old selfish will and the falsities which linger in our minds — the enemies in the Holy Land — are weakened and can be controlled. As the first verse of our chapter says of these enemies, "their heart melted, neither was there spirit in them any more." This is true in this world and we are promised that in heaven, if we attain it, our inherited nature is held in complete check by the Lord so that we are never conscious of it unless we begin to become overconfident and need a momentary reminder that it is still there. The conquest of the Holy Land describes our progress in regeneration in this world rather than in heaven, however. In the book of Joshua, although we find no more looking back or rebellion, we do find mistakes in judgment, one outstanding case of disobedience, and in most places in the land a weakness in accomplishment. But, as verse 9 tells us, "the reproach of Egypt is rolled away" (Gilgal means "rolling"). We are no longer obeying Moses in fear, much as we formerly obeyed Pharaoh, but are free men. In the language of the Gospel: "Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you."

It is significant that in the Bible the beginning of every new state is marked by the setting up of an altar of some sort as a "memorial," a reminder for future generations. It was an entirely new generation which entered the Holy Land under Joshua, and the first thing Joshua did was to set up at Gilgal the twelve stones which had been taken from the bed of the Jordan as they passed over. Read Joshua 4:1-5, 20-24.

Next Joshua was commanded to circumcise all the people. We are told in the writings that "circumcision is a sign of purification from filthy loves," and we read in @AC 4462: "As the foreskin covers the genital, in the Most Ancient Church it corresponded to the obscuration of good and truth, but in the Ancient Church to their defilement. For with the man of the Most Ancient Church, who was an internal man, good and truth could be obscured but not defiled; whereas with the man of the Ancient Church, being a comparatively external man, good and truth could be defiled, because it is external things — that is, external loves — which defile. For this reason they who were of the Most Ancient Church knew nothing of circumcision, but only they who were of the Ancient Church. From this church circumcision spread to many nations; and it was not enjoined upon Abraham and his descendants as anything new, but merely as a discontinued rite that was to be restored: and it became to his posterity a sign that they were of the church." Circumcision had been neglected during the wilderness journey because in the period of reformation we are concerned with our outward conduct and unwilling to face the necessity of self-examination and inward change. But this is one of our first duties when regeneration begins.

Then after the circumcision at Gilgal the feast of the Passover was celebrated. From the beginning of regeneration we must recognize and acknowledge that it is the Lord who has delivered us from bondage to the world and the flesh. And we recall that in the Christian Church the Holy Supper takes the place of the Passover feast. So our chapter for today should bring home to us the fact that the two Christian sacraments were ordained by the Lord as the orderly beginning of the regenerate Christian life. We cannot omit or neglect them without interfering with our spiritual progress. Through them the Lord reaches us in inner ways, and even though we may not be conscious of this presence of the Lord, we know it is a fact. We should observe these two sacraments because they have been commanded by the Lord, if for no other reason. The Lord knows our needs better than we know them.

After this celebration of the Passover at Gilgal we read that the people ate the produce of the land and that the next day the manna ceased. When the Lord has been able to give each of us a new will, we can be given something of His goodness as our own, with a feeling that we have a part in developing and preserving it. Our desire to partake of His goodness is expressed when we eat the bread of the Holy Supper. The manna in the wilderness is the form in which alone the Lord's goodness can come to us before regeneration — a little at a time, just enough to give us strength for the immediate need, melting away when the sun of self-love grows hot, spoiling when it is not put to immediate use, and never understood. We recall that manna means "What is it?" The grain of the Holy Land is lasting goodness, developed with our willing and conscious cooperation from the seed of truth from the Word, and wholly satisfying.

Our chapter closes with the appearance to Joshua of an angel with a drawn sword who commands Joshua: "Loose thy shoe from off thy foot; for the place whereon thou standest is holy." Joshua represents "the truth fighting." If we are to make progress in regeneration, we must accept the challenge of the "captain of the host of the Lord." We must recognize that the regenerate life is a holy life and put off the materialistic ideas in which we are accustomed to walk and go forward to battle against our inward foes under the leadership of the sword of divine truth.

