
=== Intermediate

The general correspondence of the story is the lesson for this class. They can see its application to their own problems and temptations even though at their age these are external rather than spiritual.

When Samuel grew old and his sons, as the sons of Eli had done, did not uphold the high standards of their father, the people began again to be afraid of the Philistines and wanted a strong man to lead them against their enemies. So they asked Samuel to give them a king. We are often weak in this way. We know with our minds that the Lord will be with us if we do right, but we allow ourselves to get to worrying and we feel the need of some special practical teaching to help us in our problems, something which comes right down to the plane on which we are living.

A king always represents a ruling principle. Samuel as leader represents a simple, childlike trust in the Lord. This is an ideal state to which, if we are regenerating, we may come back in our old age. Samuel himself was very much disappointed that the people were not satisfied with just his leadership, but the Lord told him to give them a king. The Lord, as we have seen before, knows our weaknesses and leads us by whatever means He sees will best reach us. The first king — pointed out to Samuel by the Lord — was not an ideal king, but was the only kind the people were prepared to accept at that time. He was Saul, a powerful and brave young man who stood head and shoulders above all those around him.

The three kings who ruled over Israel while it was a united country all represent the principle that we should obey the Lord's truth, but our idea of that truth changes as we grow in experience. Saul, the first of the three, is the first idea we have of it, when we judge things by their appearance and jump to conclusions on the basis of only partial understanding. Saul was hasty and self-confident. He won a victory almost immediately over the Ammonites, the same external temptations we considered in the story of Jephthah. But the real enemy whom the people feared was the Philistines, the temptation to think we are good just because we know what is right, without always trying to do right. This is an inner temptation, and the self-confident kind of thinking which Saul represents cannot meet it.

In our lesson today Saul and his army are camped at Gibeah opposite the encampment of the Philistines, but they are not sure how to proceed and many of the people are deserting Saul and trying to save themselves by hiding. But in the reign of Saul there is one element that makes for real spiritual progress. Our first or natural reasoning, with all its shortcomings, is able to acknowledge the lessons learned from experience. Saul's son Jonathan represents this kind of knowledge of the truth. Jonathan was familiar with the history of his people. He knew how often in the past the Lord had helped them and that even a small number who obeyed the Lord completely had been able to conquer an enemy of apparently overwhelming might. He said to his armor-bearer, "there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few." So, once he had received the sign he had asked of the Lord, he did not hesitate to attack, even though the way was hard. They had to go down one steep rock and up another to make the attack, which is a good picture of coming down from our self-satisfaction and climbing up in the way pointed out by the Lord.

Jonathan's victory was the opening wedge which enabled Saul and his army to put the enemy to rout. But Saul's victory was due chiefly to the "trembling" which the Lord sent upon the Philistines, which caused them in their confusion to fall upon each other. This was a kind of help the Lord gave several times in the course of the history of the Israelites. It pictures the fact that when we trust the Lord and in obedience to Him attack our weaknesses bravely right where we find them, we very soon discover that our temptation is not so strong as we thought it and that the arguments which supported it are conflicting — they really don't make sense.

Then Saul made another hasty and foolish decision. He told his army not to taste food until they had finished the pursuit. So they became weary and finally were driven to eating to excess and without preparing their food properly. We have seen before that the Lord never drives us in this way. He gives us our spiritual food a little at a time and gives us our times of enjoyment and personal satisfaction to help us continue. This is what is represented by the honey which Jonathan stopped to eat. Jonathan was wiser than his father, but his father would have killed him for his disobedience if the people had not prevented it. We often see illustrations of the meaning of this story. People who think they are serving the Lord sometimes drive themselves and others beyond endurance because they think they must always be fighting and never stop to rest and enjoy the good gifts the Lord gives us all along the way. Sometimes for this mistaken idea they would destroy the best qualities they have.

Saul never wholly conquered the Philistines because he trusted in himself more than in the Lord.

