
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The deity of the Lord should be stressed with this class. The rest of the discussion may well be on the meaning of Egypt and of the Lord's being sent there.

---
In our lessons so far we have studied the spiritual history of the human race from its creation through the time of the return of Judah from captivity. Recall the first verse of the Bible and its meaning. It was necessary that man should have both a spiritual and a natural plane in his soul and also that he should be free to choose to make either one first in his life. But he was told by the Lord from the beginning that to put the natural plane first would bring him only unhappiness. The stories we have studied have shown us that men again and again disregarded the Lord's warnings and chose to trust in their natural senses, until they gradually lost all consciousness of the inner and higher plane of life and in time could not understand anything of genuine spiritual truth and could be guided by the Lord only through fear of punishment and hope of reward in this world. The time at last came when even worldly fear and hope were not strong enough to hold them in the worship of the Lord. The very Scriptures themselves were used by the few who could read them — the scribes and Pharisees — to deceive and oppress the ignorant mass of the people. There were still many people in the world who wanted to do right, to believe in God and know about Him, a few among the Jews and many more among the Gentiles, but there was no longer any way by which they could learn the truth. The heavenly possibilities with which man had been created were no longer even known, and the whole human race was in immediate danger of losing all connection with God and so destroying itself. The Lord had to reach men in a new way. He had to come all the way down where they were and teach them the truth by living it out before their eyes: He had to prove to them His power over all their troubles and temptations and to give them a living example of what true human life is.

In the Old Testament there are many prophecies of His coming. Two are quoted in the first two chapters of Matthew (1:23 and 2:6). The people knew these prophecies and theoretically were looking forward to the coming of the Messiah. But actually few, except the suffering and downtrodden poor, really wanted the Messiah to come. The rulers — like Herod — and the scribes and Pharisees were busy getting all they could out of the people, and used their religion as a cloak and as a means of obtaining honor for themselves. Herod was building the greatest of the temples, but we know from many of the Lord's statements how corrupt the worship there was. Herod's own act in our chapter for today shows the hollowness of the religion. Compare 2:7-8 with 2:16. Herod himself as king of Judea at this time represents selfishness ruling in the heart. Selfishness always resists the coming of truth into the mind, for fear the truth will expose and condemn it. That the Lord was really the Messiah, the "anointed one" - the Greek word for Messiah is Christ — is so clearly taught in chapter 1 that no one who claims to be a Christian should question it. Joseph was not the Lord's father. The name Jesus means "Jehovah saves." Jesus Christ was the Savior, the promised Messiah, Emmanuel, "God with us," God Himself come into the world in a human form.

Four times in the two chapters Joseph is instructed by the Lord "in a dream." We remember how many times in the Old Testament instruction is given by means of dreams. There are many other things which link these first two chapters of the New Testament with the Old and make the Bible a continuous story. There are the genealogy at the beginning, the quoted prophecies, and finally the Lord's being taken into Egypt. We have thought of Egypt many times before. The early history of the Hebrews was full of occasions for going down into Egypt. Egypt, the granary of the ancient world, pictures the plane of memory-knowledge. We are "in Egypt" when we are in school and Sunday school, acquiring the knowledges necessary for our life. The Lord chose to be born as a helpless, ignorant baby, as we are, and He had to acquire knowledge just as we do, although He learned much more rapidly and perfectly than any ordinary child can. And especially He learned the letter of the Old Testament, learned all of it so perfectly that the Divine within Him could flow into it at every point and His whole life could be a fulfillment of Scripture. We shall see how constantly He quoted from it. It was to picture this learning period of the Lord's life that He was taken into Egypt in His infancy.

In the Lord's time the Holy Land was divided into three main sections: Judea in the south, which represents the will or inmost plane of life; Samaria in the center, which represents the thought life; and Galilee in the north, which represents the outward conduct. The Lord was born in Bethlehem of Judea, as we all are born in innocence and trust. He was taken into Egypt, the learning state. And then He was brought back to the Holy Land, but not to Bethlehem. He was to grow up and live for nearly thirty years in Nazareth of Galilee, as we all must develop orderly external conduct before we are ready for inner regeneration. During His ministry — the three last years of His earthly life — the Lord made His home in Capernaum of Galilee, but went down to Jerusalem in Judea regularly for the great feasts, passing through Samaria both going and coming. This is a picture of our own life when it is orderly. We live for the most part on the plane of outward conduct, but we must go regularly to the Lord in His Word for instruction and inspiration, and the connection between the two planes is made in our thinking.

