
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson gives opportunity for looking up pertinent references in the Old Testament and making the connection with the last lesson by the mention of Herod's temple. The children should also study a map and get the new division of the land clearly in mind. Call attention to the statement in their notes of the people who lived in each of the three divisions.

---
Into what two main parts is the Bible divided?

Which part have we been studying?

What was our last lesson about?

With what great event does the New Testament begin?

Where did the Wise Men come from?

How did they know when the Lord was born?

How did they find out just where to go in the Holy Land?

What gifts did they bring to the Lord?

Why did they not go back to Herod?

Our lesson for today tells us more about the Lord Himself, as well as about the flight into Egypt. Joseph was the husband of Mary, but he was not the Lord's father.

From the first chapter of Matthew who do we learn that Jesus was?

How was this revealed to Joseph?

The prophecy quoted in Matthew 1:23 is found in Isaiah 7:14. By what name is the Lord called in this prophecy?

What does Emmanuel mean?

The name Jesus means "Jehovah saves," and Christ means "the anointed one." Christ is a Greek word, and the Hebrew word with the same meaning is Messiah. We need to know these names of the Lord and what they mean.

But today we shall think especially of the events which followed the departure of the Wise Men. Again the Lord spoke to Joseph in a dream.

What did He tell him to do?

Why?

At this time Herod was king in Judea, although the whole country was subject to the Roman Empire. It had not only to pay tribute to Rome, but to submit to the actual rule of the Roman governor stationed in it. Herod, like most of the Jewish leaders at this time, pretended to be faithful to the true God, Jehovah. He began the building of a great new temple on the site of the former temples of Solomon and Zerubbabel. It was finished by his successors and was the largest temple of all. But Herod was not a good man. He was really building the temple for the sake of his own glory.

The people knew from many prophecies in the Old Testament that someday the Messiah would come. They thought that He would come as a great king who would free them from the power of their enemies and make them the foremost nation in the world. This was what was in Herod's mind when he told the Wise Men to come back and tell him when they had found the Lord. He pretended that he wanted to know so that he could go and worship the new king, but he was not telling the truth, as our lesson for today shows us. In spite of his profession of faithfulness to the religion of Judaism, all he was really interested in was keeping his own position as their king.

What did he do when the Wise Men did not come back?

What people do you remember who went down into Egypt long before?

Why did they go there?

Egypt, because of its unusual climate, was the granary of the ancient world, to which many nations went to get food when they did not have enough in their own lands. This is a picture of something. You know our minds have to have food, too. Whenever we try to advance, we feel the need of more knowledge. So Egypt in the Word pictures the plane of the mind in which knowledge can be stored up — the plane of memory-knowledge.
Memory-knowledge is the kind of knowledge with which we store our memories in school and in Sunday school. The Lord, when He was a baby, was taken down into Egypt not only to save Him from Herod but also to picture the fact that when He came into the world He had to learn just as we do. The knowledge with which He filled His mind was especially the letter of the Old Testament. As you read His life in the Gospels, notice how constantly He quotes from it.

By the time the Lord came into the world, four hundred or more years after the close of the Old Testament story, the descendants of the people of Judah who had returned from Babylon had become numerous and were scattered all through the Holy Land, but there were also many foreigners there, called Gentiles, which means people of a religion other than the prevailing one. There were Roman soldiers who kept the land in order for the Roman Emperor. There were Samaritans, the descendants of the people brought in by the Assyrians to take the place of the people of Israel. Then there were many Greeks and people from other countries, especially in the northern part of the land. At this time the Holy Land was divided into three territories, Judea in the south, Samaria in the center, and Galilee in the north. Look at these divisions on a map.

In which division are Jerusalem and Bethlehem?

In which division is Nazareth?

How did Joseph know when it was safe to go back from Egypt?

Why did he not go back to Bethlehem?

In our two chapters how often does the Lord speak to Joseph "in a dream"?

The Lord grew up in Nazareth, living there nearly thirty years, and during the last three years of His earthly life He made His home in Capernaum on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, only going down to Jerusalem for the great feasts and finally for the last week of His life on earth. So there are four places you want especially to remember in connection with the Lord's life: Bethlehem, Nazareth, Capernaum, and Jerusalem.

