
=== Notes for Parents

With the lessons on the rebuilding of the temple and prophecies of the Advent, we leave the Old Testament. Between four and five hundred years have elapsed since the time of that story. The people had had a troubled history during this period. They had remained in their land, but had been under the dominion of one or another alien people most of the time. The history of these years of the posterity of Judah does not form part of the Word of God because by their continued disobedience they had sacrificed the right to serve as representative of the Lord's church on earth. They were kept in the land under divine providence only because the Lord had to be born there and of a Jewish mother in order to "fulfill the Law and the Prophets."

When the Lord was born, the people had their own king, Herod, but he ruled under the control of a Roman governor, for the land was part of the Roman Empire. Herod was building a great new temple on the site of the old one and the ecclesiastical leaders made a great show of keeping the religious laws, but their only thought of the promised Messiah was that He would be a strong king who would free them from the Roman rule. And Herod, as our story for today shows us, did not want to give up his throne even to the Messiah.

The first chapter of the New Testament tells us plainly that Jesus Christ was the promised Messiah — Christ is the Greek word - and that He was no other than God Himself come into the world - "Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us." The name Jesus, which was also commanded, means "Jehovah saves."

When we read of the Lord's being taken into Egypt, we remember immediately how Abraham went down into Egypt, how Joseph was sold there, and how Jacob and his sons were cared for there during the years of famine. And if we recall that the land of Egypt is a picture of the plane of memory-knowledge, we realize that the Lord's going there has a deeper meaning than we might think from the letter.

The Lord came into the world to meet and overcome all the evils which the selfishness of men had brought upon them. The only way in which He could come in contact with these evils was by taking on a human nature and living as a man in the world. The soul of Jesus Christ was God, divine love itself, but through Mary He clothed Himself with a finite human mind and body full of all the tendencies to evil which had been accumulating through the ages of man's decline.

He was born as a little baby with no knowledge, and He had to learn things just as every child does. This is pictured by the stay in Egypt. He stored His mind with memory-knowledges, especially the knowledge of the letter of the Old Testament, as we may know from His constant quotations from it. This same thought about the Lord's human nature is brought out again in the third chapter of Matthew, the story of the Lord's baptism.

