
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is the age at which to point out from the Word that Joseph was not the father of Jesus. It can be stated without explanation and will help form the child's thought of the Lord as different from anyone else, since they know that every ordinary man and woman has a human father. The Lord's instruction of Joseph in dreams and His care of the child should be emphasized. The children should learn the name Nazareth and the fact that the Lord grew up there.

---
Into what two parts is the Bible divided?

Which part have we been studying?

Now we are beginning our study of the New Testament. What is the first book of the New Testament?

Do you remember whose birthday we celebrate at Christmas time? It is that of the Lord Himself, who came into the world on the first Christmas day. He came to show us how to live rightly, and so He had to be born as a little baby and grow up just as we do.

Where was the Lord Jesus Christ born?

Who was His mother?

Who was His father?

What was the name of Mary's husband?

In the prophecy in verse 23, what is the Lord called?

Our story for today tells us how He was taken care of when He was a baby. You remember how the Wise Men of the East saw a star and knew that it meant that the Lord had been born. They followed it all the way to the Holy Land and asked king Herod where the new king of the Jews was. This made king Herod very angry, but he pretended to be pleased, because he wanted to find out through the Wise Men where to go to kill the newborn king. His scribes told him that the Old Testament said that the Lord was to be born in Bethlehem. So Herod told the Wise Men to go to Bethlehem and if they found the Lord, to come back and tell him. They did find the Lord and gave Him the gifts they had brought - gold, frankincense, and myrrh — but they were warned in a dream not to go back to Herod; so they went home by another way.

When Herod could not find the Lord, what did he do?

How did Joseph know when it was time to take the Lord back to the Holy Land?

Where in the Holy Land did they go?

Nazareth was in the part of the land called Galilee. The Lord grew up in Galilee.

