
=== Senior

The general discussion of the Lord's coming into the world, with its setting and its timing, is the important thing for the Seniors. Those who will soon be going to college, where they will be exposed to the "findings" of Bible students, need to have a clear understanding of the reasons for the statements of the letter of the Word and particularly of the Lord's statement that He came to "fulfill" the Law and the Prophets. They should know the difference between the New Church view of the Bible and that outside the New Church and should see clearly the fallacy of approaching the study of the Bible as if it were merely a human production.

---
The Lord knew from the beginning that He would ultimately have to come into the world. The first prophecy of His coming is found in Genesis 3:15. It is natural to ask, "Why then did He not come sooner? Why did He let people get so far away from Him and suffer so much before He came to save them?" The answer is that His purpose in coming was to make a way for Himself to reach them in their very lowest possible states. If He had come before men had gotten as far away from Him as possible, there would still have been depths which His humanity had not experienced and through which He had not shown men the way — states which His transforming power could not reach. Read Psalm 139 carefully with this thought in mind. It is a prophecy also of the Lord's work in the humanity which He assumed. Think what it means to human beings to be able to say, "If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there." Because the Lord waited to take on our nature at its very lowest, there is no state into which we can fall which the Lord has not passed through victoriously, showing us the way out if only we will follow Him. This is why it was night when the Lord was born, the darkest night spiritually that the world ever had or ever could pass through.

But why did the Lord choose to be born among the ancient Hebrews? The answer to this question is twofold. The ancient Hebrews were themselves, we are told, the furthest from God of any people on earth because, having the means of salvation in the Scriptures, they refused to use them. Remember how often the Lord speaks of the Gentiles as better off spiritually. In choosing to be born among the ancient Hebrews the Lord fulfilled His purpose of assuming humanity at its lowest. But there was another reason also. The Lord in every detail fulfilled the Scriptures. The Old Testament Scriptures, through correspondence, taught of His life. When the time came for Him to live out before men the inner secret life of the Old Testament Scriptures, He had to make use of the true correspondential background. Again only those who knew of Him through Scripture prophecy could be prepared to recognize and accept Him. Although the Christian Church was to have its growth and development among the Gentiles, its beginning had to be from the good "remnant" of the previous dispensation, the ancient Jewish Church. We have seen that this had been true of each of the previous churches. Both in fulfillment of prophecy and because of its correspondence, the Lord had to be born in Bethlehem of Judea, the city of David.

His coming was the turning point in the world's history. The fact that our calendar dates back and forward from the Advent of the Lord is an effect from this cause. Up to that time humanity had been developing its various powers, opening the planes of life from highest to lowest, going further and further away from the celestial state. With the coming of the Lord the slow process of regeneration began. With the new power which the Lord's glorification set at work in the world — through His Holy Spirit — mankind is making its way back toward the divine image into which it was created. Each one of us has a part in this process, for only through individual regeneration can the race regenerate. If we choose to study and follow the Lord's example, we advance the spiritual development of the human race; if we choose to follow our own natural inclinations, we retard it.

The two chapters of our lesson are also assigned as the basis of our Christmas lesson from Matthew, and the emphasis falls naturally on the visit of the Wise Men. So it is good to think more today of the other sections of the chapters, to notice how closely the whole account is tied to the Old Testament by the genealogy at the start, the Old Testament passages quoted, and the story of the Lord's being taken into Egypt, which pictures the fact that the Lord had to acquire knowledges in His external memory just as we do. Chapter 1 leaves no room for doubt that the Lord was actually born of a virgin — that Joseph was not His father — and that Jesus was the promised Messiah, Emmanuel, God with us. The state of the church at the time is pictured by Herod's hypocrisy: Herod was in the process of building the greatest of the temples ostensibly to the honor of Jehovah, the God he actually tried to destroy. It is not by chance that the Gospel of Matthew became the first book of the New Testament. The whole Scripture is a continued story, written by the same author. The Old and the New Testaments are inextricably interwoven. The Lord came to fulfill the Law and the Prophets. If we do not know the Law and the Prophets, we cannot understand the Gospels; and if we do not recognize the Lord's life as the fulfillment of prophecy, we do not really recognize the Lord.

