
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Younger Children: Into what two main parts is the Bible divided? Old, New Testament

Younger Children: Which part have we been studying? Old Testament

Older Children: With the history of what nation is the old Testament in its letter principally concerned? the Hebrew nation

Younger Children: How many tribes of the Israelites were there? twelve

Older Children: In what two divisions of the land were they finally settled? Israel, Judah

Older Children: What happened to the people of the division called Israel? exiled by Assyria

Older Children: What nation took the people of Judah captive? Babylon

Older Children: How long were they held in Babylon? seventy years

Younger Teens: Why was it necessary that some of them come back to the Holy Land? re—establish Judaism

Older Children: What did they rebuild? the temple

Older Children: Into what three parts is the Holy Land divided in the time of the New Testament? Galilee, Samaria, Judea

Older Children: With what great event does the New Testament story begin? birth of the Lord

Younger Children: Where was the Lord Jesus born? Bethlehem

Younger Children: Who was His mother? Mary

Younger Children: Who was His father? God

Younger Children: What was the name of Mary's husband? Joseph

Younger Children: In Joseph's dream, what did the Lord tell him the baby would be called? Jesus

Older Children: who was king in Judea at this time? Herod

Younger Children: After the baby was born, what did God tell Joseph in a dream? flee to Egypt

Older Children: Why did Herod want to destroy the Lord? fear for his throne

Older Children: How did he try to do it? killed boy babies at Bethlehem

Older Children: When was Joseph told it was safe to bring Jesus back? after Herod's death

Younger Children: Where did they go to live? Nazareth

Younger Teens: What is pictured by the Lord's going down into Egypt? his learning of Scripture

Older Teens: Why did the Lord have to be born in the Holy Land and of a Jewish mother? to be in a true correspondential setting and in order to take on the appropriate maternal heredity


