
=== Adult

The need of the New Church teachings in our modern world and the responsibility of each member to study and live these teachings is the important lesson for the Adults. The teacher should ask for questions and answer them as clearly and fully as possible. The Church should be the center of life for all of us and the study of the Word our most important study.

John's vision of the holy city coming down from God out of heaven is the culmination of the Word of God. We have seen that the whole Word is the gradual revelation to mankind of the nature and will of God, as man developed from his first childlike state to his present state of expanding worldly knowledge. Just as a child cannot be taught everything at once, so man has developed from stage to stage and had to be instructed progressively until he reached his full adult capacity.

Man is different from the animals because he has rationality and freedom of choice. These qualities are what are meant by his being made in the image and likeness of God. The writings tell us that the one thing the Lord must preserve in man at all costs is his freedom of choice; the Lord could not have prevented the development of evils in the world without destroying man. Love which is not freely given is not love.

The final revelation needed by man was made when he reached his fullest mental development, about two hundred years ago. It was the Second Coming of the Lord — not an earthly reappearance, but a coming, as He Himself had prophesied, "in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory." That is, a coming in the internal meaning shining through the clouds of the letter of the Word! Swedenborg tells us that this new understanding from the Word of the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ alone was proclaimed in the heavens on June 19, 1770. This is why we observe the nineteenth of June as "New Church Day."

We have only to read the philosophies of our day based on men's pride in their own scientific development, and to observe the progressive weakening of the doctrinal bases of Protestant sects and even of Roman Catholic claims to realize how essential the new revelation is to the preservation of knowledge and worship of the Lord in our new age. The mission of the New Church is a very important one and the responsibility of each one of its members is very great. Let us all make every effort to study and live the teachings of the holy city and to lead others to a knowledge of them wherever the Lord has seen fit to place us. The Church on earth is the bride, the lamb's wife. Let us all cleave to the Lord and serve Him first of all.

