
=== Notes for Parents

We have had lessons on the tabernacle, on the temple, and finally on the holy city, of which it is said (Revelation 21:22): "And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it." When we are in our early adult years, we are like the Israelites "wandering in the wilderness," seeking our permanent spiritual home, led about from day to day by the pillar of cloud and fire, an acknowledgment of the Lord only vaguely understood. Our place of worship then is a movable tent, set up first in one place and then in another. If we faithfully follow the pillar until we reach a firm decision, our accepted belief, we build a more enduring place of worship, our temple in Jerusalem, our "possession of peace." Yet, as we progress in knowledge, we have more and more questions. We seek the answers in the Word of God, knowing they must be there, yet they elude us. Some become discouraged and give up the effort, turning to the worship of the earthly idols of the "nations round about." But some keep on seeking for true answers.

Such a one was Emanuel Swedenborg (1688-1772), a philosopher and scientist whom the Lord chose to be the instrument of His Second Coming. When the Lord came into the world the first time, taking on from the virgin Mary a body like ours, He came to show man the true way of life, and the first Christian Church was founded on this example. On the cross He said, "It is finished." He did not need to come in the flesh again. Yet He had told His disciples, "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now," and He had prophesied that He would come again "in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory." What was this Second Coming to be?

The "clouds of heaven" picture the letter of the Word. When our earthly sky is covered with clouds, we cannot see the sun but we know it is still there. Just as we are encouraged when the sun breaks through the clouds for a moment, so we are encouraged by those passages in the letter of the Word which give us a glimpse of its internal meaning as, for example, when the Lord Himself explains to His disciples the meaning of the parable of the sower (Matthew 13:1-9, Mark 4:14-20, Luke 8:4-15).

In the middle of the eighteenth century the Lord saw that mankind had reached a stage in their earthly learning when they not only could "bear" the "many things" He still had to say to them but needed them to keep from being carried away by worldly science and philosophy. So He opened Swedenborg's eyes to see the spiritual world in which all of us are inwardly living now and which we shall all see when we put aside our earthly bodies, and in which we shall go on living forever. And He instructed Swedenborg in the inner meaning of the Word so that he could write and publish the information for the use of all mankind. Swedenborg declared himself to be merely the "servant of the Lord Jesus Christ." His writings are the key which enables us to unlock the puzzling passages of the Word and see the sun shining through the clouds throughout.

We call June nineteenth "New Church Day" because Swedenborg tells us that on that day in the year 1770 the twelve apostles were sent throughout the spiritual world "to preach the Gospel that the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages." So the Lord Jesus Christ Himself is the temple in the holy city New Jerusalem, in which we may all live to eternity if we will.

