
=== Intermediate

Use this lesson to lead the young people to a desire to serve as "branches" of the Lord in the world, and then stress the condition of such service and the importance of looking to the Word for guidance instead of to self or to one's associates.

Our lesson for today is part of the last instruction which the Lord gave to the apostles after they had partaken of the Passover feast on the night before His crucifixion. Judas had already gone out to arrange for his betrayal of the Lord. The eleven who remained were the ones who were to begin the work of founding the Christian Church.

In the Word the vine is mentioned many times. In its highest sense it represents the Lord as to divine truth. So He says, "I am the true vine." In our lives it represents charity, which is what Swedenborg calls "the good of truth." Charity, as we have learned before, is the heartfelt recognition that we of ourselves are neither good nor wise, that all goodness and wisdom are in the Lord, and that we can do good to our neighbor only as we try to learn from the Lord what is good and to obey His commandments. As we do this we serve as branches of the true vine and can produce genuine works of charity — represented by grapes.

From this you can see why there is so much in this chapter about abiding in the Lord and about obeying His commandments.

We should not, for instance, join the church and then think, "Now I am good; as long as I go to church sometimes and am kind to my neighbors and don't do anything most people consider wrong, I don't have to do any more studying or thinking about my religion." You would be surprised to find how many people do think just that way. But one may do all these things and not really be a Christian at all. He may very soon have fallen into the state of those we learned about in our Palm Sunday lesson who "loved the praise of men more than the praise of God" (John 12:43). He may be looking to other people instead of to the Lord for guidance. So he becomes a branch that is cast off and is withered.

A branch is an extension of the vine. The apostles were to carry out into the world the truth the Lord gave them. He was warning them never to substitute their own ideas for His truth. Read John 15:16. This means that the Lord can be with us and make our efforts to do good successful only as we try to do His will and not our own. We must not think ourselves better than other people. The Lord wants each one of us to be an "apostle" — one sent out — one of His branches. He has put each one of us in a particular place and time in the world to do work for Him which no one else can do. If we faithfully keep on studying His Word and trying to understand it and to obey His commandments, His life and love can be in what we do and make it good fruit.

And He promises something to us, too. He says, "These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full." Are you ever really happy when you are doing something you know is wrong? You may think you are having fun, but down underneath, you are uncomfortable. When we are young, being good looks hard because we haven't tried being good long enough to find out how much happier it can make us than having our own way.

The Lord does not tell us that we shall have an easy time. He told His apostles that the world would hate them just as it had hated Him. We may often be made fun of by our associates when we stand up for our principles. But if we are doing what the Lord tells us to do, He can give us courage and a happiness that is deep down inside, so that what other people say will not disturb us.

The lesson of our chapter for us is that, whatever other people may think or do, we know that the Lord is the only one who can really tell us what we ought to think and how we ought to feel and behave, the only one who can keep us from spiritual harm, enable us to do the things which will really be for the good of our neighbor, and bring us into heavenly happiness here and in the world to come.

