
=== Junior

The Juniors can get some idea of the meaning of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem as its king, as well as of the story of Zacchaeus and the parable of the pounds. Be sure also that they know in brief what happened during Holy Week.

Next Sunday is Easter Sunday, which we observe every year in memory of the resurrection of the Lord after He had been put to death. As we read about the Lord's life on earth — the wonderful things He said and did, and His gentleness and kindness — it is hard for us to see how the religious leaders could have become so bitter against Him and how the people who had followed Him could have let them have their way. But that is what always happens when selfishness gets control of people. A selfish person hates anyone who interferes with his getting everything he wants, and often the people around him find it easier to let him have his way than to speak up and oppose him.

We remember from other lessons that the scribes and Pharisees had been trying all along to find faults in the Lord which they could point out to the people. Because He always proved them wrong instead, their hatred grew and grew. We all need to see clearly that crimes always begin in selfishness. This is as true in our own world today as it was in Palestine when the Lord was on earth.

On the first day of the last week of the Lord's earthly life He entered Jerusalem in the manner of a king and was received by the people as a king.

On what did He ride?

How did He get the colt?

Was the colt used to being ridden?

What did the disciples put on the colt for the Lord to sit on?

What did they cast in the road before Him?

What did the multitude cry?

This story is told in all four Gospels. Look up John 12:12-13.

Matthew and Mark both speak of their casting branches from the trees in the Lord's path, but only John says that they were palm branches; so it is from John's account that this Sunday before Easter gets its name of "Palm Sunday." We learn from the other Gospels that the colt on which the Lord rode was a donkey's colt. Kings and judges rode on donkeys. The people thought that the Lord had come to overthrow their Roman rulers and set up their own kingdom again. That was the real reason why they welcomed Him. The Lord knew what they thought, but He had no such intention. It is in our hearts and minds that He wants to rule. His kingdom is the kingdom of heaven and He says it is within us. So His riding into Jerusalem as a king is really a picture of His coming into our hearts and minds to rule there.

It is to show us this that our chapter begins with the story of something that happened along the road before the Lord reached Jerusalem. It concerns a little man named Zacchaeus.

Where did Zacchaeus live?

What was his occupation?

What was a publican?

Why couldn't Zacchaeus see the Lord? How did he manage to see Him?

What did the Lord say to him?

What did Zacchaeus say which showed his character?

What did the Lord tell him?

When the Lord entered Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, He knew that He would be put to death. He had told this to His disciples, but they did not believe Him. It was because He was about to leave them that He told them the parable of the pounds. The word translated pound was a sum called a mina, amounting to about twenty dollars in our money today.

In the parable what did the nobleman give each of his servants?

What did the first make with his pound?

What did his master give him for a reward?

What did the second make?

What was his reward?

What did the third do with his pound?

What did his master call him?

This parable taught the disciples that, after the Lord left them, He would expect them to make good use of all the instruction and training He had given them. It teaches us that the Lord gives each one of us certain abilities and leaves us free to use them as we please, but that if we are wise, we shall make the best possible use of them in His service.

The Lord knew what the people were about to do to Him, but He did not hate them for it. He was sorry for them instead. He grieved because of the great disaster they were bringing upon themselves by their selfishness. Verses 45 and 46 show us that they had even come to use the temple itself as a means of making money. The Lord's prophecy about Jerusalem was fulfilled in A.D. 70 when the Romans completely destroyed the city.

