
=== Notes for Parents

We know that the Sunday before Easter is called Palm Sunday because when the Lord rode into Jerusalem on the first day of the last week of His life on earth, the people cast palm branches before Him, hailing Him as king. He chose to ride that day on a donkey's colt because it was customary for kings and judges to ride on donkeys.

We know also that it was only a few short days before the people crucified Him. What caused such a terrible change in their attitude toward Him?

The ancient Jews interpreted all the prophecies of the Old Testament literally. They believed that they were the Lord's chosen people and that sooner or later the Messiah or "anointed one" would come as a king who would overthrow all their enemies and establish them forever as rulers of the earth. In order to believe this it was necessary to ignore or to explain away many other things which are said in the Old Testament, but we know how prone we all are to believe what we want to believe, and also how firm a hold the beliefs in which one is brought up have on his mind in directing his reasoning. This belief accounts for much of their history.

It accounted for their treatment of Christ. The people who hailed Him as king when He rode into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday apparently expected Him to put Himself at the head of all the rebellious elements among them and immediately overthrow their Roman rulers. When He did not, they turned against Him, and the scribes and Pharisees, who had been hoping for just such a change in the strength of His support by the people, seized the opportunity to get rid of Him.

The Lord Himself knew just what was going to happen. He had told His apostles about it in advance, but they could not really believe it. His death on the cross was a part of His plan from the beginning, for He came into the world to show us how to live, and if He had not passed through death and appeared afterward unchanged, He could not have proved to us that we go on living forever, so that we would know that it is the things we do to our souls which are really important.

Our whole chapter for today teaches us the difference between humble acknowledgment of our sins and weaknesses like that of Zacchaeus and the stubborn determination to have our own way which was the ruin of the scribes and Pharisees. The Lord did not hate the scribes and Pharisees nor the people who put Him to death. Instead, He wept over Jerusalem because He knew that the people were really destroying themselves. He would have saved all of them if they had only been willing to listen to Him and choose the unselfish life, which is the only possible road to happiness.

This week, which is known by all Christians as "Holy Week," we should read with our children the story of the last week of the Lord's life in chapters 20 through 23 of Luke. We should think about this story very seriously as we read it and try to look into our own hearts and minds and find the feelings and thoughts there which are standing between us and the happiness which the Lord wants us to have. Let us, like Zacchaeus, receive the Lord joyfully and determine to correct our faults and to live as the Lord would have us live.

