
=== Senior

With the Seniors this lesson offers a good opportunity to stress the importance of using certain periods in the church year, such as Holy Week, for special self-examination and renewal of their dedication to the Lord's service. The chapter contains many practical lessons for young people. Suggest to them that they read chapters 20 through 23 of Luke during the week.

We are all so familiar with the story of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem at the beginning of the last week of His life on earth that we need only review its meaning. Jerusalem represents the place we have made for the Lord in our minds, and He reigns there as king just so far as we actually accept the rule of divine truth. He enters riding upon a donkey when we submit our worldly reasonings to the control of spiritual principles. We cast our garments before Him when we are willing to give up our own ideas if we find that they are contrary to His teaching. Then He can cleanse the inner temple of our souls, driving out false thoughts and selfish desires.

The story of Zacchaeus, which is told only in the Gospel of Luke, is a fitting introduction to the story of the entry into Jerusalem, for the chief among the publicans — or tax—gatherers — represents our affection for worldly success. Zacchaeus was "little of stature." This affection is not an exalted affection. It is capable of leading us into evil. But it is also capable of a good use. Zacchaeus desired to see the Lord "who he was," and he "climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him." Swedenborg says that the Biblical sycamore, which was an inferior type of fig tree, represents "the truths of the external church." Even such external truths, if we obey them, will lift us high enough above the crowd so that we can see the Lord. When the Lord saw Zacchaeus in the tree, He said, "Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for today I must abide at thy house." In other words, once our interest in worldly success has recognized the Lord, it must immediately be put to use for Him on its own plane. And the result with us, as with Zacchaeus, will be the recognition of our evils, the desire to correct them, and also joy and salvation.

To those who murmured against the Lord for associating with Zacchaeus He spoke the parable of the pounds, teaching that each of us is responsible for the proper use of the place and abilities given him by the Lord. Zacchaeus, when faithful and merciful in his low office, was better than the scribes and Pharisees who failed to use rightly the treasure of the Word.

The Lord's lament for Jerusalem and prophecy of its destruction referred literally to the earthly city and to the ancient Jewish Church, but spiritually the Lord longs to save all men. He spares no means of pointing out to us the sure ruin which will befall those who know the truth and are faithless to it. From the warning given in the Garden of Eden to the warnings in the messages to the seven churches in Asia Minor in Revelation the importance of our free choice of good or evil, life or death, is impressed upon us.

The week before Easter is called Holy Week. During this week we should make a special effort to think very seriously about what the Lord did for us in taking on our weak human nature in order that He might meet and overcome all the temptations which we feel, and in this way be forever present with us and help us from day to day. He "bowed the heavens and came down for our salvation." We should examine ourselves during this week to find our particular faults and weaknesses, and we should ask the Lord to keep us mindful of them and to give us strength to fight them.

