
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The reason why the Psalms should be sung in church is important for this class, as well as the facts noted concerning the New Church canon of Scripture. The two main points concerning the letter of Psalm 119 should be stated, and then the Psalm may be discussed in more detail than with the other classes, drawing on the knowledge of it which the members of the class have. Favorite verses will perhaps be suggested and compared.

---
Psalm 119, the longest of the Psalms, is one of the most interesting in the letter. In the first place it is the most completely worked out of the seven "alphabetical" Psalms, the other six being numbers 25, 34, 37, 111, 112, and 145. None of them, of course, is alphabetical in the translation, but Psalm 119 is printed in KJV Bibles with the names of the letters of the Hebrew alphabet in their order at the head of the sections, and we should know that in the original Hebrew every one of the eight verses in any given section begins with the letter which heads the section.

Another interesting fact — which is evident in the translation — is that each verse of the Psalm contains some word or words referring to the law of the Lord: statutes, commandments, way, etc. This makes it clear that the whole Psalm treats of the Word and its importance in our lives.

In Revelation 1:11 the Lord says to John at the beginning of his vision: "I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last." We know that Alpha and Omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. It is in connection with the explanation of this verse that Swedenborg tells us in @AR 38: "Since every letter signifies a thing in the spiritual world, and thence in the angelic language; therefore David wrote the 119th Psalm, in order, according to the letters of the alphabet." When we stop to think that the letters of our own alphabet are the symbols by means of which all our thoughts and feelings are expressed, communicated to others, and preserved for posterity, we can better understand why "every letter signifies a thing in the spiritual world," and how a Psalm composed in the complete alphabetical form is intended to impress upon us the whole range of its subject.

The Psalms are meant to be sung, and we know that music is the expression of the affections. We should remember this whenever we sing the selections in church. Sometimes people complain of the difficulty of singing the selections, and because of this some of our churches have even been reduced to the practice of reading instead of singing them, and often the singing of them is left to the choir. But this is a serious loss to all in the church. The Psalms cannot be sung to ordinary "tunes" without distorting the words of Scripture, and we should all be willing to make the effort to learn the few simple rules which govern the necessary chanting, and to practice until we can follow the chants easily. When we read the Psalms, they make a deep impression on our minds — as any part of the Word does — but when we sing them, our hearts are engaged. In the temple worship the Psalms were sung by families of the Levites set apart and trained from childhood for that particular service, and they were sung to the accompaniment of various instruments, both wind and strings. The women of the families also took part.

We are all familiar with many of the verses of Psalm 119. The opening section is a recognition of the fact that happiness can come only as we learn and obey the law of the Lord, and a prayer to be enabled to obey it. The next section begins with the often quoted verse, "Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to thy word," and suggests various ways in which this instruction may be carried out. Then follow sections which acknowledge our own weakness and need of the Lord's guidance and help. The temptations through which we must pass and our gratitude for strength received from the Word are followed by recognition of its supreme and impregnable position and expressions of our love for it, including verses which express our grief that everyone does not learn and keep the law and that our sincere efforts to convert them often fail. Perhaps the best-known sections are verses 97 to 112. From this point on the Psalm increases in intensity and devotion, and near the end is the beautiful verse (165): "Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them." Offend is here used in its original meaning of "turn aside" or "cause to stumble." But it is significant that after all this rejoicing in the knowledge and keeping of the law, the Psalm ends on a thoroughly humble note: "I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments." So we find in this Psalm a complete pattern of life in which we are governed from childhood to old age by dependence upon the Lord as we find Him revealed in His Word.

The Lord Himself placed the book of Psalms with the Law and the Prophets as fully inspired Scripture (Luke 24:44), contrary to the tradition of the ancient Hebrews, who considered it as belonging among the "Writings," not of equal inspiration with the Law and the Prophets. The book of Psalms and the book of Daniel were excluded from the Jewish canon of Scripture, the former probably because it was in common use as a hymn—book, and the latter because they felt no prophet would be inspired outside the Holy Land. Ezekiel, it is true, prophesied in captivity, but he had been a priest and perhaps a prophet before he was taken captive, and also he recorded more than once that he was carried in the spirit to Jerusalem for his visions. For the same reason Judaism separated the Lamentations of Jeremiah, which were written in Egypt, from the body of his book and placed them also among the "Writings." The Lord refers to Daniel as a prophet in Matthew 24:15. The New Church canon of Old Testament Scripture is the Hebrew canon plus the Psalms, Daniel, and Lamentations.

The Lord said that the Psalms treated of Him. Psalm 119 has its internal senses throughout, and in Prophets and Psalms Swedenborg gives us the following very brief summary of its celestial sense:

"The Lord fulfilled the Law, or the Word, from its firsts to its lasts, and therefore He was hated, and suffered temptations, and thus made the Human one with His Divine."

