
=== Adult

Discussion topics for this class might be: (1) the order of the two great commandments, (2) the meaning of the parable for the lawyer and its meaning for us, (3) the practical applications of the story of Mary and Martha, and (4) the wonderful balance which the Lord always preserves for us if we are careful to study each story in the Word in its context.

With this lesson we enter upon the last period of the Lord's life.

The Lord is on His way to Jerusalem for the final scenes of His earthly career (Luke 9:51). The greater part of the teaching in the next few chapters is in the form of parables, most of which are not found in any of the other Gospels.

In our lesson for today the teaching of the Scriptures is reduced at the outset to its simplest terms. The lawyer — we must remember that the law then was primarily the Scriptures — asks his question and is directed to the Scriptures for his answer. In Matthew (22:34-40) the Lord, instead of the lawyer, answers the question and emphasizes love to the Lord by saying of it, "This is the first and great commandment." In Luke He approves the lawyer's answer and says, "This do, and thou shalt live." Love to the Lord and love to the neighbor are a summary of the teaching of the whole Word. Of the two tables on which the ten commandments were originally given, the first contained those relating to our duty to the Lord and the second those relating to our duty to the neighbor. We cannot break the first great commandment and keep the second, nor break the second and keep the first. It is generally recognized today that love to the Lord is not genuine unless it expresses itself in justice and kindness to the neighbor — nothing is more common than criticism of a church because some of its members show a lack of justice and charity in their outward dealings. But it is often asserted that love to the neighbor is possible without love to the Lord. ("So-and-so hasn't any use for religion, but he's always doing things for other people." "There are better people outside of the church than in it." "I always try to treat other people right, and I'll take my chance at salvation with anybody in the church.") The immediate popularity in its day of the poem by Leigh Hunt (1838), "Abou Ben Adhem", in which love to the Lord is made a sort of involuntary appendage of love to the neighbor, testifies to this feeling. But the fact is that no one can do genuine good to the neighbor without recognition of his dependence upon the Lord for the will and the power to do good, as well as upon the Lord's guidance as to what is good. If a man does not do good from love to the Lord, he does it from love of self, which renders his goodness spurious. People reject this teaching at first, but it is not hard to demonstrate. Those brought up in orderly, respectable homes find it much pleasanter and more profitable to fulfill — even at the cost of some personal inconvenience — the ordinary external requirements of civilized neighborly living which will make them liked and respected in their community than to be openly selfish, miserly, and uncharitable. They like the approval of their neighbors and they like to feel pleased and satisfied with themselves. We remember the story of the rich young man (Matthew 19:16-26). He had kept all the commandments but turned away when the Lord told him to sell all that he had and follow Him. To sell all that we have represents giving up the sense of our own goodness and wisdom. And without looking to the Lord for guidance we cannot know what is the neighbor nor how we should express our love for him. The lawyer in our story unconsciously showed this and confessed his own ignorance when he asked, "And who is my neighbor?"

The Lord's answer, the parable of the Good Samaritan, which is recorded only in Luke, is one of the best known and most frequently referred to of the parables, but its lesson is not always carefully analyzed. It is often cited as evidence that we should look outside of the church for true charity and also that the essential of love to the neighbor is caring for the bodily wants of others. We like to imagine ourselves as filling the role of the Good Samaritan. In truth, however, we are all much more likely to play the role of the man who fell among thieves.

A brief study of the correspondence of the story will repay us.

"To go down from Jerusalem to Jericho" is to go from "the truth of doctrine to the good of life" (@AE 458[10]), that is, to try to put into actual practice something that we have learned of the Lord and His will. On this journey we are all often attacked by our own selfish desires and the false reasonings that come from them, and are robbed of our garments of truth, weakened in our good resolution, and fall by the roadside half dead — with very little of our spiritual vitality left. The priest and the Levite in a good sense represent worship of the Lord and the good of charity; so in a bad sense as here they picture the opposite, namely those who have no love to the Lord and no love to the neighbor (@AE 444[14]), who are indifferent to our spiritual condition. The Samaritan pictures those who are in "the affection of truth" (@AC 9057[2]), that is, in the love of practicing what truth teaches, or "those who are in the good of charity toward the neighbor" (@AE 375[42]). Such people can and do help us, pointing out to us good and true things — the oil and wine — to strengthen our shaken resolution, carrying us along so far as their own understanding permits, and bringing us to those who can give us more instruction and help. An inn signifies a place of instruction. Thus the whole story is a picture of spiritual service. Even in the letter it should be noted that it is the Samaritan and not the injured man who is called the neighbor. Swedenborg tells us (@AC 6708) that the Samaritan is called the neighbor because he exercised the good of charity and that everyone is our neighbor in accordance with the quality of his love to the Lord (@AC 6711). That is, it is love to the Lord in a man that is the "neighbor" to whom we are to do good, and in all our dealings with others we are to act in such a way as to foster love to the Lord in them. With this end in view we shall not give alms indiscriminately to everyone who asks, for to give alms to an evil man is to make it more possible for him to go on in his evil course. @AC 6703-6712 states the general principle very clearly, as does @TCR 428. When the Lord made the lawyer acknowledge that the despised Samaritan might be more his neighbor than the priest or the Levite, He taught that genuine goodness is to be recognized wherever it is found.

And lest one should feel justified in misinterpreting the parable of the Good Samaritan, the parable is immediately followed in the Word by the story of Mary and Martha. "Martha was cumbered about much serving." How often we are so distracted by our external activities — useful though they be — that we think we have no time to sit at the Lord's feet and hear His word! We see these activities as duties, as services to the Lord, just as Martha was preparing for the Lord's physical entertainment. But we become so "careful and troubled about many things" that we lose our sense of proportion. Churches sometimes become so busy with external service that they almost wholly neglect the study and teaching of the Word. It is a common plea that it is of no use to talk to men of spiritual things until their physical needs are met, but not only is this not true (for many have found peace and joy in spiritual things in spite of physical want): if we take this attitude, we shall never finish the work of supplying physical wants and never find the right time to supply the spiritual. The Lord teaches this elsewhere in connection with this same Mary, when she anointed Him with costly ointment which Judas thought would better have been sold and the money given to the poor (John 12:3). Read also the Lord's words in Mark 14:7. To Martha He said, "But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part." Love to the Lord is the first and great commandment. We cannot do good to the neighbor unless we learn of the Lord what is good and perform our services in His name instead of in our own. "What doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?" Further helpful numbers are @AE 240, 962; @AR 316; @TCR 287, 407-411; @NJHD 84-90.

