
=== Junior

There are two simple and needed lessons here for the Juniors: the obvious lesson in the parable, and the lesson pointed out by the last verse of the chapter. The proper relation between the two is brought out by the order of the two great commandments. The children might well learn verse 27.

How many apostles were there?

What does apostle mean?

What powers were given the apostles?

What was their message?

Who were the three apostles closest to the Lord?

What vision was given them?

To whom did the Lord speak the parable of our lesson today?

A lawyer in those days was one who knew the laws in the books of Moses. What did the lawyer ask the Lord?

The Lord made him answer his own question from the law. The laws he quoted are found in Deuteronomy 6:5 and Leviticus 19:18.

What do we call these two laws?

In verse 29, to "justify himself" means to excuse himself for not fully keeping the law. He apparently felt that he had kept the first law, but was not so sure about the second. He hoped the Lord would tell him that his neighbor meant people of his own religion and class. Instead, the Lord told him the parable and then again made him answer his own question.

Jerusalem is built high among the hills, while Jericho is on the low plain near the Dead Sea. The distance between them is about eighteen miles and the road is rough, steep, and lined with jagged rocks among which robbers used to lurk and spring out at travelers.

The priest was one of those most admired and respected by the people, and so was the Levite. The Samaritan, on the other hand, belonged to a group of people who were despised and hated because, you remember, they had been brought in long ago to supplant the Israelites when they were carried away captive by the Assyrians. By the parable the Lord made the lawyer see and acknowledge that it is mercy and kindness which counts, and not race or position or learning.

A neighbor means "a near one." It is love which really brings people near together. Selfishness always drives people apart. We are good neighbors when we think kindly of other people and try to help them in right ways. This is one of the lessons of the parable. For you notice that it is not the man who fell among thieves who is called the neighbor, but the good Samaritan himself. We should look for the good in other people and love it and try to help it in every possible way.

Another lesson we may find in this parable is that we often need help ourselves. Do you see how the journey of the man from Jerusalem to Jericho pictures times when we go down from high states — from our ideals and our good resolutions — to the lower plane of our daily work and play? Do we ever "fall among thieves" on the way? Very often temptations take away from us all our good thoughts and intentions and leave us half dead spiritually. Then we need the help of a good Samaritan, someone who will lift us up again and heal us with love and good advice — the oil and wine — and carry us along until we get back our strength. This is one of the things our parents are doing for us constantly because they love us.

Our lesson does not end with the parable of the Good Samaritan.

The people then understood the lesson the Lord was trying to teach in it, but the Lord knew that in later times there would be some people who might try to make an excuse of this very parable. You know that there are many people today who do not read the Bible or go to church or take any interest in religion, and some of them point to certain kind things they do for others and say they are like the good Samaritan whom the Lord praised, and that the parable teaches that external good works are all the Lord requires of us. So the Lord, when He wrote the Word, put the story of Mary and Martha immediately after the parable of the Good Samaritan.

When the Lord was in the home of Mary and Martha, what was Martha doing? What was Mary doing?

What did Martha ask the Lord to do?

What did the Lord tell her?

The Lord did not tell Martha that it was wrong to do the work of the house. All the external services we perform for each other are useful and have their place in our lives. But there is something more important: We should make the most of every opportunity we have to learn of the Lord. If we do not try to learn what the Lord has to say to us, we shall never be able to help our neighbors in the really important things of life. And when we do the outward good works, if we are not doing them from love to the Lord, we are giving ourselves the credit for them, and that takes all the real good out of them.

