
=== Junior

The Juniors can understand why the details of ancient Hebrew worship had to be observed so carefully. They will be interested in the meaning of the fire from the great altar and the "strange" or unholy fire. Have them look up all the Bible references in their notes. Review the names of the five books of Moses, and tell them as much as you can about the book of Leviticus.

At Sinai the Lord also gave Moses a whole code of laws to govern the personal, civil, and religious life of the people. He gave special directions for the making of the tabernacle and its furnishings. The Levites — the tribe of Levi — were set aside to have charge of this tabernacle and the worship there, and Aaron, the brother of Moses, was named as high priest. His sons were to be his assistants. Their names were Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. Many of the laws given at Sinai are preserved in the book of Leviticus.

Every detail of worship in the tabernacle had been prescribed.

We shall find the law for burning incense in Exodus 30:1, 7, 8 and Leviticus 16:12.

Where was the priest to get the fire on which to burn the incense?

The censer was the bowl made to hold this fire and carry it. In those days there were no matches or even flint and steel. When people went on a journey, they had to carry fire with them from place to place. The fire on the great altar was kept burning all the time, whether they were making sacrifices or not. Read Leviticus 6:13. Fire is a symbol of love and this ever-burning fire on the great altar pictures love for the Lord, which should be our motive in everything we do.

What did Nadab and Abihu do?

This means that they used fire taken from somewhere else than from the great altar. Incense stands for our prayers of gratitude to the Lord. Read Revelation 5:8. Do people ever go to church and take part in worship for other reasons than because they love the Lord and are grateful in Him? Sometimes they may go because they want to be thought well of, or because they want to get in with certain people, or because they think it will be good for their business. These are selfish reasons. Love of self is the opposite of love to the Lord. It is "strange" or unholy fire.

What happened to Nadab and Abihu?

Does this seem too great a punishment? We must remember that the ancient Hebrews liked to perform external acts of worship. It was because they thought mainly of external things that the Lord chose them for the writing of the old Testament. Every detail of their worship had to be kept just as He gave it to them, or the inner meaning — which was for people of later times — would be destroyed. Those who would not preserve this external order could not continue to be useful. So a terrible thing did happen to Nadab and Abihu when they disobeyed. A terrible thing happens to us when we go to church from selfish motives. The love of the Lord is poured out to us as we listen to the reading of the Word and take part in the service, but our selfishness turns it into self-love, and our spiritual life is destroyed. It may seem to us that what Nadab and Abihu did was not very bad, but they knew that it was disobedience to the Lord. It is the things we do knowing that they are wrong in the Lord's sight which condemn us.

The ancient Hebrews were accustomed to shave their heads and tear their clothes as a sign of mourning when any of their relatives died. So the Lord told the people that they might mourn for the terrible burning of Nadab and Abihu; but Aaron and his sons were commanded not to mourn in this way because they were serving as priests and wearing the holy garments, and had been anointed with the holy oil. When we do wrong and are punished, it is natural for us to be unhappy about the punishment; but if we are really serving the Lord, we should not be sorry that we have been punished, but only that we have deserved punishment.

Wrongdoing always brings punishment of some kind even when we do not realize it. The harm it does to us in our hearts and minds is much more serious than any outward effects it may cause. It is not the Lord who punishes — evil brings its own consequences. We should learn from these, and avoid doing wrong the next time.

