
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The contrast between the Pharisees' attitude toward the Lord and His attitude toward them makes a good discussion topic, especially in view of the humanistic character of much so—called religion today. The ideas that man is inherently good and that human intelligence is the arbiter of truth are essentially Pharisaic. The three excuses also offer good discussion material.

---
Eating and drinking play a large part in our daily lives. Our bodies must be nourished regularly, and our food must be varied and wholesome. When we invite guests to a meal, we desire not only to do them good by feeding their bodies, but to enjoy the pleasure of association with them. Our associations with our friends are of the spirit, so that even with us, if we are in good states, eating together performs spiritual uses.

Many times in the Word the Lord spoke of eating and drinking, of feasts, suppers, wedding feasts. We can know that He was talking of spiritual uses. The food and drink which He offers us are His love and wisdom, good and truth to sustain and develop our souls, as natural food and drink nourish the body. But He offers us more than this. He promises to come in and sup with us, to be present with us, associating with us Himself. In the Word He spreads a perpetual feast for us, good and truth in every varied form which we may need and which will add to our happiness, and He is present there Himself ready to speak wise and loving words to us, to answer our questions, to help and encourage us in our problems and temptations, to delight us with new desires and thoughts.

But we are free to accept or to reject the Lord's invitation. In this world we choose the company with which we wish to associate. We can seek those who are wiser and better than we, and learn to become steadily wiser and better ourselves, or, if we like to show off our knowledge and virtues, we can seek those who, we think, know less than we, and so cut ourselves off from making progress and actually go backward. This is what the Lord teaches in our chapter in the parable of the wedding feast, which precedes the parable of the great supper. If we truly "hunger and thirst after righteousness," we will readily accept the Lord's invitation, seek Him in His Word, accept the truth He offers, and try to practice it and so receive its good, we will associate with others who are learning of Him, and unite with them in work for His kingdom. The Lord's Supper, of which we partake occasionally, is the external symbol of our acceptance of His invitation to sup with Him in His kingdom. It has reality and power for us in proportion to our desire to receive the good and truth from the Lord which the bread and wine symbolize, and in proportion to our desire to associate with the Lord and with angels.

The Lord's invitation is given to all. It is repeated again and again. Not only do we hear it in the letter of the Word in its general form but in every truth which impresses itself upon us personally, just as the servant was sent out to each guest. If we do not accept the invitation, it is because we do not wish to. When we read the parable, we wonder that any of the invited guests should have refused so delightful an invitation: but we refuse it ourselves whenever we find other pursuits and other thoughts so absorbing that we allow them to interfere with our associations with the Lord.

The three excuses symbolize all the types of preoccupations which keep men from looking to the Lord for love and wisdom. The first man had bought a piece of ground and must needs go to see it. The ground, or more properly field, is the mind, intellectual things, in this case leading away from the Lord. When we become so interested in thinking our own thoughts and developing our own theories that we have no time to learn of the Lord, to read the Word, to go to church, we are making this excuse. The second had bought five yoke of oxen and went to try them. The oxen represent our affections for natural usefulness. When these are turned to the Lord's service they are good, but when we are too busy caring for our families and providing for their present and future needs, or even too occupied with the external charities which the world recognizes as good to look to the Lord and seek to know Him better, we are making this second excuse. Both these guests recognized that they ought to accept the invitation and asked to be excused for this time. So we may feel that sometime, when we have completed the study or the work which now absorbs our attention, we shall find time for the Lord and the church. But we cannot put off the building of spiritual character. Before long we shall be saying, as the third man did, "I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come." We shall be so wedded to our own ideas and our own occupations that we shall reject the Lord's invitation outright.

The parable of our lesson was spoken to the Pharisees. The invited guests who made the excuses pictured the church, which had the Scriptures but had become wholly absorbed in worldly ideas and pursuits. The guests who were brought in to take the places of those first invited represented those who did not have the truth but desired it, first those in the streets and lanes of the city, those who had had some contact with the truths of the Word through living among the Jews, and then those in the highways and hedges, altogether outside of the city of doctrine, who must be "compelled," that is, drawn by the power of love rather than reached through the truth. "'The poor, the maimed, the lame, and the blind,' do not mean such in a natural sense, but such in a spiritual sense, that is such as had not the Word, and were therefore in ignorance of truth and in lack of good, but still desired truths by means of which they might obtain good; such were the Gentiles with whom the church of the Lord was afterwards established." (@AE 652[31]). See also @AC 2336[4] and @AE 223[22].

The last verse of the parable points to the serious nature of the choice offered us in the Lord's invitation: "For I say unto you, that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper." Our reception of the Lord's love and truth depend upon our desire to obtain them. If we choose to go our own way, we close the door to the Lord and the time comes when even He cannot open it. Our life in this world is our opportunity to choose between self and the Lord, and the choice is made not in a moment but day by day, by putting away wrong thoughts and selfish desires and letting the Lord's truth and love take their places. Whenever we hold back from fully following the Lord, clinging to some idea or enjoyment which we love but know to be from self, we limit our ability to advance in the kingdom of heaven. If we really want the Lord to come in and sup with us, we must open the door to Him and keep it open, by ridding our minds and hearts of the self-esteem and self-love which shut Him out. This is the cost we must count, of which the Lord speaks in the parables which complete our chapter.

