
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors are old enough to understand about spiritual food and drink. Have them try to think for themselves what "bread of life" and "living water" mean. Point out that we could not live without love and truth — we could not grow up if our parents did not love and teach us, and all their goodness and knowledge really comes from the Lord.

---
In our chapter for today, who invited the Lord to eat at his house?

Who were the Pharisees?

What did the Lord notice about the guests?

What did He advise the Pharisees to do?

Then the Lord told them a parable. The Lord in His teaching spoke many parables. This was because a simple story holds our attention, is easily understood, and stays in our minds afterward. We may not see the point of the story at first, but sometimes it comes to us later. So in our chapter, if the Pharisees had closed their selfish minds to the plain teaching which the Lord gave them first, they might listen to the parable and think it over later.

In the parable whom did the man first invite to his supper?

What excuse did the first man give?

What was the second excuse?

What was the third?

Whom did the man find to eat his supper?

We can see some of the lessons in this parable easily. One is that we should not let our selfish activity about our own affairs interfere with the obligations of friendship. Another is that people we look down upon might make better friends than some we choose. This was taught also in the parable of the Good Samaritan.

But there is a still greater lesson which we may not see so easily.

The man in the parable pictures the Lord, who is our greatest friend. The Lord has prepared a great feast for all of us and invited us to come. Of course we know that He gives us our natural food, the food that nourishes or bodies; but the real feast He offers is food for our souls, His love and truth. Again and again in the Word He invites us to come to His house and take freely of the good things He has for us. He calls Himself the "bread of life" (John 6:35) and says He will give us "living water" to drink (John 4:10, 14). You would think that no one would refuse such an invitation, coming from the Lord Himself.

But we do often make excuses, just as the men in the story did.

We are too busy with our work and our play and our selfish affairs to study the Bible and to go to the Lord's house. When we hear the invitation, we mean to accept it, but when the time comes, we can't bear to lay aside what we are doing. We are the friends who are invited first, because we call ourselves Christians; that is, we claim to be friends and followers of the Lord, and we know all about the feast and where to find it.

Who do you think are the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind who do come to the supper? See if you can find the answer in Matthew 5:3-6. There are a great many things in the Gospels about the rich and the poor. It will help us to understand these things if we know that by the rich the Lord does not mean the people that have money, but all those who are rich in their own estimation, who think they have all the goodness and truth they need; and by the poor the Lord always means those who know they are not good or wise enough, but that they need help from the Lord all the time. Read Revelation 3:17, where the Lord is speaking of a Christian Church which had become like the Pharisees. The maimed and the halt and the blind are those who realize that they have done wrong things which have hurt their souls or that they are somehow not quite strong enough to walk in the Lord's way as they should, or that they are ignorant of the Lord's teachings. We are all weak and imperfect in many ways, and we should make the most of every opportunity to receive the help the Lord offers us so freely.

