
=== Notes for Parents

Again we have one of the Lord's parables, this time addressed to the Pharisees, who thought themselves better than anyone else. Did you ever stop to think why so many little stories with a moral to them are written for children? It is because children like stories and remember them, and often they will see the moral for themselves and think about it; whereas if we tried to teach them the same lesson directly, they would close their ears to it. Well, that is why the Lord so often spoke in parables, and indeed why so much of the Bible is in story form. For we are all children to the Lord. We close our ears to His instruction, just as our own children do, when we see immediately that it applies to our faults. But we listen to His stories, which seem at first to be about other people, and afterward we come to see that we are just like the people in the stories, and then the lesson comes home to us.

We all live in a Christian country and most of us think of ourselves as Christians. We consider ourselves friends of the Lord. So if we see that the man in our parable is the Lord, we are all among the friends who were first invited to His table and had accepted His invitation. The Lord gives us our material food, of course, but He also offers us food for our souls which we need still more, for we shall all leave our bodies behind us someday, but our souls are to last forever, and the kind of spiritual food we "eat" determines whether they will be healthy and beautiful or ugly and shrunken and misshapen.

When the invitation to the Lord's table comes to us, the feast which He offers us is in His Word, which is spread before us in His house, the church. Do we ever make excuses? Are we ever so occupied with our own little worldly occupations and ambitions that we can't take time for religion? We know that the poor and maimed and halt and blind — the people who realize their own shortcomings, their sin and weakness and ignorance — go eagerly to the Lord's table to be fed. Do we really think we are better than they? If we do, the Lord tells us in the parable that we shall never taste of His supper.

