
=== Senior

The Seniors can profit by the same lesson suggested for the Intermediates, but for them illustrate it from conditions prevailing in the community and the world in order to encourage in them the determination to align themselves with the "poor" rather than with the Pharisees.

---
In our parable today it is the Lord who prepares the great supper and invites us to come. We find this feast in the Word, in the Lord's house. Those who claim to be friends of the Lord — all Christians - have heard and recognized the invitation and are presumably willing to accept it, but when the actual time to partake comes — the time to study the Word, to go to church, to express our love for the Lord by doing His will — how often we begin to make excuses!

The Lord spoke this parable to the Pharisees. They had found fault with Him for not keeping all the regulations which they had added to the law of Moses. But He had pointed out that they themselves, while they kept the letter of all the laws, kept the substance of none of them. Because they saw the people flocking to hear Him, they maintained for a time a show of respect for Him, and He used all the opportunities they gave Him to try to teach them as He taught everyone. The Lord, as He said, came as a physician to heal the sick, and in His mind the Pharisees were suffering from a spiritual disease worse than those which afflicted the publicans and "sinners" whom they despised. So when He went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees "to eat bread on the sabbath day," He was carrying on His purpose. This time He attacked their desire for preeminence, first in plain teaching which might appeal to their worldly reason and then in the parable of the great supper, which might perhaps stay in their minds and have its effect later. We all need its lesson.

In their correspondence the three excuses in the parable picture three types of self-indulgence which we are likely to allow to come between us and participation in the spiritual feast to which the Lord invites us. The first man had bought a piece of ground and had to go see it. The ground pictures the mind. This is the man who is too interested in developing his own ideas to stop to receive instruction from the Lord. The second had bought five yoke of oxen and wanted to try them out. The oxen represent affection for useful labor. This is the man who has so much to do in his business and the woman who puts so much effort into her busy life that they have no time to study the Bible or go to church. The third had married a wife and therefore could not come. This is the man who is really "wedded" to his own selfish ways and has closed his mind to anything which will interfere with his going his own way.

The invitation was accepted only by "the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind." These are the people who are humble-minded, who recognize their own sins and weaknesses and ignorance, and look eagerly to the Lord for guidance and strength. They are those mentioned in the blessings, the poor in spirit, the meek, they that mourn, they that hunger and thirst after righteousness.

The Lord's feast is perpetually spread for all of us. If we are rich in our own estimation, we shall make excuses; if we are poor in spirit, we shall accept and be fed. We should note the warning with which the parable closes: "For I say unto you, that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper." Our opportunity is now — not in some vague tomorrow.

In the rest of this chapter a further lesson is drawn from the parable. The invited guests who acknowledged the invitation and then did not attend the supper are like the man who began to build a tower without first counting the cost, and like the king who started a war without estimating his forces, and like the salt which had lost its savor. In John 9:41 the Lord says to the Pharisees, "If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see: therefore your sin remaineth." To acknowledge truth and then recede from it constitutes sin. We all need the Lord's admonition: "If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them."

