
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AC 7273: "And I will multiply My signs and My wonders (Exodus 7:3). That this signifies warnings of every kind, nor shall anything be wanting, is evident from the signification of 'signs and wonders,' as being confirmations of the truth ... and also means of Divine power ... here warnings; for thereby they both saw that they were in falsities, and saw the Divine power, and in this way were warned. The reason why it is said that to those who are in falsities warnings are given of every kind, nor shall anything be wanting, is that the condemnation of those who are in evils is not effected in a moment when they come into the other life, but after they have first been visited, that is, examined. The examinations are made in order that they themselves may take notice that they cannot but be condemned, because they have not lived differently, and also in order that spirits and angels may know that they have been of such a character; so that they can no longer be excused either by themselves or by others."

@AC 7280: "And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah (Exodus 7:5). That this signifies that they shall be in fear of the Divine, is evident from the signification of 'knowing that I am Jehovah,' as being to be in fear of the Divine (of which below); and from the signification of 'the Egyptians,' as being those who are in falsities and infest. As regards the fear of the Divine in which they who are in falsities and infest will be, be it known that fear is the only means of restraining the infernals and holding them in bonds. For fear is a common bond, both for those who are upright, and for those who are evil; but for those who are upright the fear is internal, which is fear for the sake of salvation, namely, lest they should perish as to their souls, and so lest they should do anything contrary to conscience, that is, contrary to the truth and good which are of conscience; consequently they have fear lest they should do anything contrary to what is just and fair, thus contrary to the neighbor; but this is holy fear in so far as it is conjoined with the affection of charity, and still more as it is conjoined with love to the Lord . . . . Such is the 'fear of God,' so frequently spoken of in the Word. But with those who are in evil there is no internal fear, namely, for the sake of salvation, and thence for the sake of conscience; for such fear they have utterly rejected in the world, both by their life, and by the principles of falsity favoring their life; but instead of internal fear they have external fear, namely lest they should be deprived of honors, of gain, or of reputation for the sake of these, lest they should be punished according to the laws, or be deprived of life. These are what are feared by men who are in evil, while they are in the world. As, when such men come into the other life, they cannot be restrained and held in bonds by internal fear, they are held by external fear, which is impressed on them by punishments. From this they are in fear of doing evil; and at last they are in fear of the Divine, but as before said external fear, which is devoid of any desire to desist from doing evil from the affection of good, but only from dread of the penalties, which they at last feel horror at."

