
=== Adult

Serious thought should be given in this class not only to the spiritual meaning of the dangers mentioned in the Psalm but to the fact that the promises are also spiritual and that they are made under the definite condition that we acquire and use the truth which the Lord gives us. Mental laziness gives the lie to good intention.

Let us begin by asking ourselves why the Psalms play so prominent a part in our public and private devotions. In the first place, the Psalms are songs, and music because it expresses the emotions has a very deep appeal. In the second place, the Psalms put into words — words inspired by the Lord — our inner states, those states of thought and feeling which we of ourselves find it so difficult to express. Finally, the Psalms throughout describe our relationship with the Lord, that highest privilege of man which distinguishes him from the animals. In their inmost sense the Psalms show us the inner states through which the Lord Himself passed while He was on earth, and because we are created in His image and after His likeness they show us in their spiritual sense states of every regenerating person.

The book begins with the clearly drawn contrast between the righteous person and the ungodly person, in the first Psalm, and throughout the book the need of the righteous for the help of the Lord in meeting the assaults of evil and falsity is a constant theme. The triumphant praise of the Lord with which the book closes is the result of experience of the Lord's saving power. The Introduction to the book of Psalms in the International Bible Commentary says: "No book in the Bible so completely unites the world's divided Christendom. Roman Catholic and Protestant, Anglican and Non-Anglican, use it in public and private devotion. No book so completely expresses the varied needs of the human heart."

Psalm 91 is one which many people know by heart and in which many have found support and comfort. Even without a knowledge of the spiritual meaning one gets from it the feeling of the nearness of the Lord and the angels, the sense that one is not struggling alone and that in the end, as Paul says, "all things work together for good to them that love God." But there is and always has been a tendency to think that the promises of this Psalm concern salvation from external dangers, and to feel that when sickness and bereavement come to us, it must be because we do not have sufficient faith in the Lord. In fact, this is always the excuse offered by the faith healers when they fail to cure. Even from the literal sense of the Word we should know better than this, for it is in this obvious external sense that the devil quotes this Psalm in tempting the Lord in the wilderness (Matthew 4:5-7), and the Lord's reply indicates that the promise is not to be taken literally. In the New Church we know that in all the Word the Lord is speaking to our souls, and that the dangers from which He wishes to save us are spiritual dangers. In the interest of our spiritual growth the Lord permits many afflictions to come to our bodies.

In his summary of the internal sense of the Prophets and Psalms Swedenborg interprets Psalm 91 entirely in its relation to the Lord's states during His glorification. The summary is as follows:

Psalm 91:1. Song in praise of the Father by the Lord, who is to be made one with Him.   

Psalm 91:2-6. Thus there will be protection from enemy attack.  

Psalm 91:7-9. Thus there will be no uprising of the hells,  

Psalm 91:10. not even against the church. 

Psalm 91:11-12. Thus heaven will serve Him. 

Psalm 91:13-16. There will be no fear from the hells, when the Divine has been made one with the Human.  

And Swedenborg does not leave us without help in the understanding of this Psalm's meaning in our own lives. Scattered through the writings there are some twenty-two instances in which he quotes and often explains one or more verses from it. He says, for example: "'To trust under his wings' signifies under truth known" (@AE 283[6]); "The 'dread of night' denotes falsities of evil which are from hell; the 'arrow that flieth by day,' falsity which is openly taught, whereby good is destroyed; the 'death that wasteth at noonday,' evil which is lived in openly, whereby truth is destroyed" (@AC 6000[9]); "'The pestilence that creepeth in thick darkness' denotes the evil which vastates in secret; 'the death that wasteth at noonday' denotes the evil that vastates openly" (@AC 7505); "To destroy the interior and exterior falsities that vastate the truths of the church is signified by 'treading upon the lion and adder'; and to destroy the interior and exterior falsities that vastate the goods of the church is signified by 'trampling on the lion and dragon'" (@AE 714[24]).

We all know that we are constantly assailed by temptations, and we know from our doctrines that these temptations come from the hells. Some of the evils and falsities we see immediately in their true character. These are the dangers which are said to come "by day" and "at noonday." There are others which we do not immediately recognize because our thinking is obscure. These are the dangers that come "by night" and "in darkness." We know that although in general we mean to be good, we often yield even to the temptations which come "by day." We need help from above to reinforce our weak wills. And certainly we need the Lord's help to recognize and reject those evils and falsities which disguise themselves.

Our Psalm teaches us that this help is always available. But it also teaches us that if we would obtain it, there are conditions which we must fulfill. To imagine that we can go our own way and then when trouble comes call upon the Lord and be saved is merely wishful thinking. The Psalm is addressed to the person who "dwelleth in the secret place of the most High." That is not where we are dwelling when we live according to our natural thoughts and inclinations. The wings which we are to trust are spiritual truths, and it is faithfulness to truth which is to be our shield and buckler.

We cannot expect to have this security and protection if we neglect the daily reading of the Word and the study of its spiritual meaning as the Lord has opened it for us in His Second Coming. We read in @AC 4096: "The good which is of love and charity flows in from the Lord, and does so through angels who are with man; but not into anything else in him than his knowledges." We like to think that good intentions are all we need, but the writings tell us that good receives its quality from truth and exercises its power through truth. They tell us also that "the good love truth"; so we should keep in mind that the quality of our intentions is actually measured by the effort we are willing to make to learn the truth.

In @AE 471[2] we read: "The expression 'to answer' frequently occurs in the Word, and it signifies, in reference to the Lord, influx, inspiration, perception, and information, likewise mercy and aid." The answers to our prayers for salvation from our troubles will not necessarily be preservation from any outward calamity, but will be an understanding of the reason why it is permitted to come to us and the strength to meet it and use it for our spiritual development.

