
=== Adult

The whole question of our attitude toward the ecumenical movement is involved in this lesson. We need to see the difference between cooperation with others on the natural level and trying to pattern our own church activities and attitudes on those prevailing in other churches whose fundamental concept of religion is quite different from ours.

Our lessons from the book of Revelation thus far have shown us the picture of the early states of the first Christian Church, the various ways in which its members began to depart from their first faith and life, and the prophetic vision of the condition of that church at the time when the opening of the seven seals would bring upon it the final judgment. We know from the writings that this judgment took place in the spiritual world in the year 1757. After this judgment the permanent Christian heavens were established, the good being brought into those heavens and the evil consigned to the hells. On June 19, 1770, the twelve apostles were sent forth throughout the spiritual world to proclaim the true Christian doctrine, and the New Church was begun in heaven, from which it was to descend to earth (@TCR 791).

Our chapter for today is a prophetic vision of the preparation for this descent and of the opposition which would face the New Church on earth. Swedenborg's interpretation of these visions brings us face—to—face with the necessity for serious thought and important decisions concerning the nature and mission of our church, and its relation to other churches. The Rev. William Worcester's characterization of the book of Revelation as the "charter of the New Church" is not an idle epigram. Some time ago a Jewish rabbi who had been reading the writings of Swedenborg told a group of New Church ministers that when he first read what Swedenborg said about Jews, he threw the book aside, but later he took it up again and when he found that Swedenborg said even worse things about Protestants and Roman Catholics, he felt better about it. As New Churchmen we cannot ignore these statements of Swedenborg or doubt their validity.

The writings tell us that the woman clothed with the sun symbolizes "the Lord's New Church in the heavens, which is the New Heaven." She is clothed with the sun because "the church is in love to the Lord, for it acknowledges Him and does His commandments." The moon is seen under her feet "because the church on earth, which is not yet conjoined with the church in the heavens, is meant" and the moon signifies "intelligence in the natural man, and faith." Her crown of twelve stars signifies the New Church's "wisdom and intelligence from knowledges of Divine good and Divine truth from the Word." Throughout the Word a woman is often used as a symbol of the church — the bride and wife whose husband is the Lord. Read Isaiah 54:5, John 3:29, and Revelation 21:2, 9-10.

The child which the woman was to bear represents the doctrine of the New Church, and we should note that it was the child rather than the woman which the dragon really wanted to destroy. This is important for our later thought, for it means that the strength of the New Church will be in its doctrine. The child was saved by being caught up to God, and His throne. This, we are told, signifies that the doctrine is protected by the Lord and guarded by the angels of heaven.

Swedenborg identifies the great red dragon specifically as "those in the Church of the Reformed who make God three, and the Lord two, and separate charity from faith, and who make faith saving, but not charity together with it." The Church of the Reformed is the church afterward called Protestant. To make the Lord two is to "separate the Lord's Human from His Divine." Read here @AR 537 ff. The dragon is red because red in this case signifies "falsity from the evils of lusts." His seven heads signify "insanity from the truths of the Word falsified and profaned." His ten horns signify "much power," and the seven crowns "all the truths of the word falsified and profaned." We profane the Word when we quote it in support of arguments which permit or excuse selfishness and worldliness in us or in others. That the dragon's tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and cast them to the earth signifies "that by falsifications of the truths of the Word they have alienated all spiritual knowledges of good and truth from the church, and, by application to falsities, have entirely destroyed them."

@AR 548 tells us that by Michael is not meant any archangel but the ministry in heaven performed by "those who confirm from the Word, that the Lord is the God of heaven and earth, and that God the Father and He are one, as the soul and body are one; also that men ought to live according to the commandments of the Decalogue, and that then men have charity and faith." Michael and his angels cast the dragon down out of heaven. So far as we are in truly heavenly states the falsities of the "faith alone" doctrine on which Protestantism was founded — the flood which pours out of the dragon's mouth — have no power over us, for the earth, which represents "the church as to doctrine," makes them "fall to nothing."

But the woman is still "in the wilderness." In @AR 547 Swedenborg says: "It is of the Lord's Divine providence, that the church should at first be among a few, and that it should successively increase among many, because the falsities of the former church must first be removed; for before this, truths cannot be received, since truths which are received and implanted before falsities are removed, do not remain, and they are also dissipated by the dragonists."

This is where our lesson most closely touches our contemporary situation, and where honest thinking is most important. We are told sometimes that no Protestant Church any longer believes or preaches the doctrine of faith alone. This is simply not true. We know, of course, that there are many in Protestant churches who do not confirm this doctrine in their lives although they may still hold it intellectually and even rely upon it for comfort when they are thinking about their own evils and those of their friends and loved ones. But the whole "modern" attitude toward religion is an outgrowth of the faith alone doctrine: the idea that one church is as good as another, that we cannot really know anything about God or the life after death and so if there is a God and a life after death, that our eternal happiness will be taken care of; that it is God's responsibility, not ours, etc.

The fact that emphasis today is often placed on charity rather than on faith does not contradict this, for the "charity" meant is identified with what Swedenborg calls "benefactions," which may have no charity in them whatever, and "faith" is still identified with mere lip acknowledgment that Christ died to pay the penalty for our sins, which is essentially the doctrine of faith alone.

The New Church will grow on earth only as its members recognize and resist the temptation to identify charity with external works and the temptation to succumb to a weak acceptance of popular trends of thought. We face the dragon every day. Swedenborg tells us that good receives all its quality from truth and that truth cannot live with falsity.

