
=== Intermediate

The book of Revelation has been called the "charter of the New Church." This lesson offers an opportunity to show our young people how this is true and to strengthen them for the opposition their beliefs will meet in the world, at the same time inspiring them by the picture of the origin of the New Church and the divine protection over it.

---
The book of Revelation is the record of a series of wonderful visions given by the Lord to the apostle John when, in his old age, he had been exiled by the Roman rulers to the island of Patmos, off the coast of Asia Minor. Throughout the history of the Christian Church people have felt the power of this vision. It is obvious from the letter (Revelation 1:19) that it has a very important meaning for the church and that it is a prophecy, and many have tried to puzzle out its meaning and to identify particular historical events — especially wars and conquests — with details of the prophecy. But only the opening of the internal sense of the Word by the Lord in His Second Coming has really enabled men to understand it.

The whole book is a prophecy of the history of the first Christian Church. This church was founded on the belief that Jesus Christ was the Messiah, the heavenly Father revealing Himself to men (Isaiah 9:6; John 4:25-26, 14:9). So the book of Revelation begins with a beautiful vision of the Lord. Then follow the messages which John is to give to the seven churches which had been established in Asia Minor, and these messages show that already — before A.D. 100 - men were developing different ideas of the Lord and His teaching and were beginning to depart from true discipleship. Then John was taken up in the spirit into heaven and shown a great vision of the judgment which would be executed on the first Christian Church when these false ideas and evil practices had completely perverted it. In this vision the Word is shown first as a book sealed with seven seals and then, as the Lord opens one seal after another, deeper and deeper evils in men are revealed and judged. All these scenes are prophecies of the Last Judgment, to which many in some of the Christian churches around us are still looking forward, but which Swedenborg tells us took place in the year 1757.

Our lesson for today tells of the beginning of the New Church.

Swedenborg tells us that on June 19, 1770, the twelve apostles who had been with the Lord in the world were sent out throughout the spiritual world to preach the doctrines revealed by the Lord in His Second Coming (@TCR 791). By this the New Church was established first in the spiritual world, and this is why we call June 19 "New Church day." The New Church had to be established in the spiritual world before it could begin to descend to the earth.

The woman clothed with the sun portrays this New Church in the spiritual world and the moon under her feet symbolizes the faith of the New Church which would light the darkness of the minds of men on earth. The stars in her crown stand for all the beautiful truths which the New Church brings us. So, you see, near the end of the Word we come back to truth which the people of the Most Ancient Church had had by direct inspiration — the sun, moon, and stars which appeared on the fourth day of creation. The child which the woman was to bring forth represents the doctrine of the New Church.

Then appears the great red dragon. In Revelation 12:9 he is called "that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world." Again we go back to the beginning. Do you remember the argument of the serpent in the Garden of Eden (Genesis 3:1-5) which induced Adam and Eve to disobey the Lord and eat of the forbidden fruit and so lose their paradise? The serpent represented the love of the satisfactions to be obtained from this world and the love of reasoning from these material "appearances." He said to Eve in effect: "Don't believe what the Lord has told you; He is just trying to keep you from doing your own thinking." That was the beginning of all the falsity and evil in the world, and this old serpent grew with the growth of human selfishness, and his arguments gained in power as man's knowledge of the natural world grew, until we have the great red dragon with his seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns. Every time you try to present the doctrines of the New Church to those who do not really want them this great dragon rises up to fight you.

The dragon was cast out of heaven and the child was kept safe in heaven, and the woman was given wings — which picture spiritual understanding — to lift her up out of the dragon's reach, and the earth — the "good ground" of an honest and faithful heart — can dispose of the flood of falsity which pours out of the dragon's mouth. If you study your doctrines and remain true to them in your life, the dragon cannot hurt you, and your life will help to build the Lord's New Church on earth.

