
=== Primary

Remind the children that the book of Revelation is the last book in the Bible and have them learn its name. Connect it with the Gospel of John. Then read the lesson as one of John's visions. If there is time, the teacher may also give the children further information about the dragon, based on Revelation 12:9, and tell them how much there is in this story for them to understand when they are older.

John was called "the beloved disciple" because he always seemed to be close to the Lord. John lived to be a very old man, at first in Jerusalem and later in Asia Minor, where he became head of the seven Christian churches which had been established there. When he was about ninety years old, the Roman rulers exiled him to the island of Patmos. There the Lord gave him a wonderful vision, which is recorded for us in the book of Revelation, the last book of the Bible.

First John saw the Lord — the same Jesus whom he had followed in the world — in a new and glorious form, and the Lord gave him messages for the seven churches in Asia Minor. Then he was taken up in the spirit into heaven and shown how the Lord and His angels control and put down evil when it threatens to become too strong for us to resist.

The visions John saw were like great moving pictures acted out in heaven to teach us about good and evil and to help us choose what is good and hate what is evil.

In our lesson for today what did John first see?

What was the woman standing on?

What was on her head?

What appeared to threaten her?

What can you tell about the dragon? 

Where did the woman flee?

What happened to her child?

Who fought against the dragon?

What were given to the woman to help her?

How did the dragon try to catch her?

How did the earth help her?

We are told that the great red dragon is the same old serpent which led Adam and Eve to disobey the Lord in the beginning of history. Whenever you are tempted to do wrong, you may know that this old serpent is whispering to you. Then just say, "Get thee behind me, Satan," and don't do the wrong thing. If you try hard to do this, the Lord and the angels will help you to do right.

