The Book of Haggai

from the book

Minor Prophets: Major Messages

by Rev. George McCurdy

Contents 

How To Use This Study Guide......................................................................................................... 3

Introduction........................................................................................................................................... 4

Chapter One........................................................................................................................................... 8

Haggai 1:1-4...................................................................................................................................... 8

Haggai 1:5-6................................................................................................................................... 14

Haggai 1:7-9................................................................................................................................... 17

Haggai 1:10-11.............................................................................................................................. 22

Haggai 1:12-15.............................................................................................................................. 25

Chapter Two........................................................................................................................................ 30

Haggai 2:1-3................................................................................................................................... 30

Haggai 2:4-5................................................................................................................................... 33

Haggai 2:6-9................................................................................................................................... 37

Haggai 2:10-14.............................................................................................................................. 42

Haggai 2:15-17.............................................................................................................................. 48

Haggai 2:18-19.............................................................................................................................. 53

Haggai 2:20-22.............................................................................................................................. 56

Haggai 2:23..................................................................................................................................... 61

Epilogue: A Summary of the Book of Haggai..........................................................................65

Chapter One.................................................................................................................................... 65

Chapter Two................................................................................................................................... 65

2

How To Use This Study Guide

1. A slow, unhurried reading of Haggai is essential. Reading the chapter before 
looking at the notes, while working with the notes, and after finishing with 
the notes will give each researcher a powerful sense of the series of meanings
within each chapter. It is important to be comfortable with all the names and 
places in the prophecy and to understand the announcements the prophet 
makes on behalf of the Lord. When possible, historical information will be 
included in the notes to increase reading comprehension and enhance 
application.

2. Our study of each chapter of Haggai will begin with quotes from a work of the
Writings called Summary Exposition of the Prophets and Psalms (P&P). This 
work includes a verse-by-verse overview of both chapters of Haggai that 
provides general information about the internal sense. Our research will help
move us from the generals to the particulars of the internal sense.

3. Another important reference tool is Searle’s General Index to Swedenborg’s 
Scripture Quotations. This reference is used to find passages in the Writings 
where a verse(s) from the Word is either explained specifically or used to 
illustrate a doctrinal point that we can use in our study. There is also another 
use of this work. As we study, each researcher will be led by the Lord’s 
Providence in myriad ways, according to specific needs or states. Knowing 
how to use this book will help each of us to explore relevant topics and look 
up related passages to increase our knowledge of the three-fold Word.
4. You will soon discover that not every verse, word, name, etc. is directly 
quoted in the Writings. But there are often other references to the same 
name, place, or thing in the explanation of a different verse of the Word. The 
hope is that reflection on these other doctrinal explanations will help us see 
possible applications to our study of Haggai. We will need to use "derived 
doctrine" often. Please don’t run away from this maligned term. If we use it 
properly and admit openly that it is derived doctrine, we bring no harm to the
internal sense.

5. Keep some kind of notebook handy during your study times. Write out 

insights, questions, and any summaries you find helpful in organizing your 
thoughts about each chapter. The goal of this study guide is not to give a 
detailed summary of the internal sense but to start each researcher’s quest 
for deeper insight.

6. At the end of each chapter in the study guide, you will find a study review. 
The review includes a summary of each section to help you reinforce and 
build on your understanding of several of the key points.

7. Begin each study unit with a devotional prayer asking the Lord to guide and 
direct your thoughts. Certainly beginning in this sphere has the power to 
inspire and open our minds with a higher spiritual priority that will keep us 
in the company of the Lord’s angels. As the Writings teach, we must seek to 
love truth for truth’s sake. Such an approach will free each reader from 

3

preconceived ideas that might limit his or her ability to "see" the intent and 
message of the Lord’s Word.

Introduction

The book of Haggai is the second smallest book of the Old Testament. To grasp its 
full significance, we require knowledge about the books of Ezra, Jeremiah, Malachi, 
and Zechariah. All of these prophetic books contain a piece of the puzzle that 
contributes to the total historical/spiritual picture. This might partially explain why 
there are only two chapters in Haggai. It is as if the writer assumed the reader knew 
the sad news of what happened to Jerusalem almost 100 years prior to this 
prophecy.

Of course, we know that there is a deeper reason why all the books of the prophets 
were written. Within the stories of natural history, we can find spiritual truth. This 
spiritual sense must be relevant for eternity, and the angels care about this sense 
more than they care about names and history. Theirs is a world of spiritual concepts 
and love of the Lord. For us, history forms an interesting outline from which we 
begin to see truths emerge that apply to our lives. So here are some historical points 
to keep in mind while reading the literal sense of Haggai.

1. The Jewish nation for years enjoyed, and benefitted from, the leadership of 
David and Solomon. Israel’s power and influence reached far and wide. The 
power of David and Solomon’s armies put fear and respect in the hearts and 
minds of neighboring nations. Israel’s armies subdued the external nations 
and enemies, but more potent and deadly enemies lived and grew within 
their hearts. As their peace and prosperity increased, the quality and 
sincerity of worship declined in their temple. Their acts of worship became 
pretentious and empty of sincere love for the Lord. Instead of loving the Lord,
they loved treachery, greed, and selfishness; they turned to idolatry and 
"polluted" the forms of worship. So the Lord spoke through His prophet 
Jeremiah and told the people they would be brought to their knees. The work 
of their hearts would be responsible for the coming events in their lives. They
would suffer under Babylonian captivity for seventy years:

o Jeremiah 1:15. "For behold…I will utter My judgments against them 
concerning all their wickedness, because they have forsaken Me, 
burned incense to other gods, and worshiped the works of their own 
hands."

o Jeremiah 25:11. "And this whole land shall be a desolation [and] an 
astonishment, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon 
seventy years."

2. On or about 586 BC, the reign of captivity began with the sacking of 

Jerusalem. The Babylonians, under the leadership of Nebuchadnezzar, spoiled
the city and defiled the temple. The burning, sacking, and looting of 
Jerusalem "ripped out the heart" of the people. The great temple built by 

4

Solomon was burned and destroyed. With disbelief, the children of Israel 
looked at the ashes and charred timbers of their beloved temple; what was 
once the marvel and envy of the world was no more. We can identify 
somewhat with this story if we think about the day we watched, in horror, the
destruction and devastation of the World Trade Center. Now imagine how you
would feel if such an attack were made on a great, beloved church.
The captors carried away the best, the brightest, the young, and the skillful 
people from Israel. The elderly and infirm were left behind in a shell of a city 
that could not function. The "cream of the crop" was distributed throughout 
Babylon. Families were uprooted and separated from one another. Any 
integrity of morale and tradition was severely attacked and discouraged. 
Their new ruler demanded to be worshiped as a god.
One can only imagine how the captive Jews must have reflected about what 
had been. Can we imagine them telling those who were born in captivity what
it was like in the holy city of Jerusalem? As well as they could, they must have 
talked about the good old days and the magnificent grandeur and beauty of 
"their temple."
For seventy years, the Israelites were kept in Babylon and subjected to the 
philosophy and religion of the Babylonians. Israel’s children, listening to the 
ideals and morals of Babylon, must have been badly confused and unsure of 
why they should oppose the ways of Babylon. Like "spiritual gentiles," they 
were vulnerable to falsity, ignorance, and idol worship.

3. Did the Lord forget Israel during those seventy years? History records the 
defeat of the Babylonian kingdom under the Persians. Cyrus, the king of 
Persia, was moved providentially to decree that the Israelites should return 
to their homeland. He ordered their restoration of the temple in Jerusalem 
and provided some funding for its completion.
Such news brought joy to the repatriated Jews. However, not all of them 
returned at once; they came over a period of time, journeying in small groups.
For all practical purposes, this made their nation weak, an unorganized group
of people with no strong leadership.
When they reached Jerusalem, they began work on the temple with 
enthusiasm and a sense of urgency. Ezra 3:8-10 tells us they "arose as one to 
oversee these workings on the house of God…" They got the foundation done. 
Ezra paints a picture of the tears and initial joy for the progress they made. 
But then a setback occurred. The Samaritans who resided in the region 
offered to help them with the rebuilding. Israel turned them down. The 
rejection did not sit well with the Samaritans so they appealed to Cyrus and 
his successor Cambyses to stop the work on the temple. What reason did the 
Samaritans offer? The Jews had a "rebellious nature." In effect, the 
Samaritans were warning these leaders that Israel would turn against them 
once the temple was completed and became the center of their lives.
Therefore, a decree came from the Persian nation that all work was to cease. 
As disappointing as the news was, the Jews complied with the decree. For 
sixteen years, nothing more was done to the temple. The unfinished 

5

foundation and beams must have served as a grim reminder of their futile 
efforts to regain a sense of "normalcy" in a world of servitude.
For sixteen years, Israel did no work for the restoration of the temple. Nor did
they make any effort to petition for the right to continue restoring the temple.
Instead, they turned their attention to their homes, their businesses, and the 
restoration of financial stability.
To placate their consciences, the children of Israel offered excuses. They 
complained about the meager crops because of drought conditions. They 
noted that food and drink were scarce, as were many other necessities of life. 
Furthermore, their efforts to broaden the base of their financial resources 
brought in low returns. So they allowed the work on the temple to cease, 
excusing themselves by saying, "It’s not our fault."

4. The Lord called a prophet named Haggai to speak to Zerubbabel, the 

governor of Judah, and Joshua, the high priest. Haggai would tell these two 
leaders to rally the people to return and assume the real task at hand, to build
spiritual things first. Haggai was called to be a motivator and a conscience to 
the people. There are basically four themes or prophecies in the book of 
Haggai:

o Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, and this 

temple to lie in ruins? Consider your ways! (Haggai 1:1-15)

o A promise is made that the new temple, when built, will bring a far 

greater glory than the first temple. (Haggai 2:1-9)

o An analogy of their uncleanness was given to show the Jews what kind
of dedication to God would be needed to complete the job. (Haggai 
2:10-19)

o The Lord promised that the heathens would some day be overthrown. 

(Haggai 2:20-23)

5. Who was Haggai? His name means "the festive one." We don’t have much 

information about his personal life. It is generally agreed that Haggai’s family 
was carried off in the great Babylonian sacking of Jerusalem and that Haggai 
was born in Chaldea, a Babylonian city. Those who lived in this region of 
south Babylon were called "Chaldeans." The Chaldeans lived in loosely 
organized tribal groups, "…shifting allegiances…refusing to recognize any 
loyalty beyond that of the clan…." (The Interpreter’s Dictionary of the Bible.)
The Writings do not speak well of the Chaldeans. They signify worship that 
contains no truth, or truths profaned in worship. See Arcana Coelestia (AC) 
1368. Apocalypse Explained (AE) 355 [24] points out that Chaldeans signify 
those who profane worship and destroy the church. Did the Lord choose a 
Chaldean-born lad to turn things around?
As a young man, Haggai came back to Jerusalem with the returning exiles. 
What was in him that allowed the Lord to use him in this special way? We 
have no direct teachings. One can only think that he had a willing heart and a 
desire to serve the Lord. Loyalty comes out in his call to the children of Israel. 
Not once does he speak for himself. "Then the word of the Lord came by 
Haggai the prophet, saying…."

6

It is important to have this information as we turn to the story of the rebuilding of 
the temple because it helps us compare our own state with that of the Israelites and 
hear the message given to them as a message given to us. It is important to read this 
prophecy with expectancy and hope so we will hear the Lord talk about the New 
Church as the temple that "shall be greater than the former…and in this place I will 
give peace…."

With prayer and a desire for enlightenment, let’s open the book of Haggai and share 
together the news of the "festive one" regarding the Lord’s New Church.

7

Chapter One

HAGGAI 1:1-4

"In the second year of King Darius, in the sixth month, on the first day of the month, the
word of the Lord came by Haggai the prophet to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, 
governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, saying,

‘Thus speaks the Lord of hosts, saying: This people says, The time has not come, the 
time that the Lord’s house should be built.’

Then the word of the Lord came by Haggai the prophet, saying, ‘Is it time for you 
yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, and this temple to lie in ruins?’

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"They believe that the Messiah will come to exalt them to glory, and yet the 
church among them has been devastated…"

Coronis 56



"From all these passages it may be seen what ‘vastation’ and ‘desolation’ are; 
and that it is not a vastation and desolation of the peoples of a land, and of 
cities, but of the goods and truths of the church, whence there is nothing but 
evils and falsities." Of the many passages listed as examples from the Word, 
Haggai 1:4 and 9 are cited.

Derived Doctrine

"In the second year…"

 Years signify the times and states of the church. Years do not refer to a 

person’s life-span. (AC 515)

 Two or twain (second) signifies some kind of conjunction: conjunction of the 
will and understanding; conjunction of the external and internal person or 
church. (AC 5194) Two signifies things that correspond like a pair that 
complete one another. (AC 747)

8

"In the second year of King Darius…"



In the positive sense, a king represents divine truth and divine good, which 
are in and from the Lord. Good and truth are the principals that are to guide, 
protect, and save the Lord’s people. (AE 446 [16] and AE 721 [12])

 Darius the Mede is likened to Nebuchadnezzar as representing one who 

required the people to worship him as a god. This worship of self means a 
ruling from all that is filthy and profane. (AC 1326 [2])

"In the sixth month, on the first day of the month…"

 A month represents the state of truth in a person. [Apocalypse Revealed (AR) 

22, 935]

 A month signifies a full or plenary (entire or complete) state. (AR 489)


Six signifies "all" of truth and good because six is composed of three and two 
multiplied by each other; three signifies "all" with respect to truth, and two 
signifies "all" with respect to good. (AR 245)

 Day signifies the successive states of a person’s regeneration. (AC 6) In the 

creation story, the Lord divided the light from the darkness on the first "day." 
In AC 16, we read "By the prophets…‘beginning’ involves the first period when
man is being regenerated…"

"…the word of the Lord…"

 AC 2 reminds us that the Word is from the Lord and "it must of necessity 
contain within it such things as belong to heaven, to the church, and to 
religious belief, and that unless it did so it could not be called the Lord’s 
Word, nor could it be said to have any life in it."

 AC 129 explains that the "true order is for a person to be wise from the Lord, 
that is, from the Word…Thus [our] starting-point must be the Lord, and not 
[ourselves]; for the former is life, but the latter is death."

"…the word of the Lord came by Haggai the prophet…"

 The name "Haggai" is derived from the word for "a festival." Roget’s 
Thesaurus offers the following synonyms for festivity: celebration, 
merrymaking, gayety, and jollity. In light of the news Haggai brought, 
celebration would seems to be the synonym worth considering. AE 321 tells 
us that "…celebration and glorification is a living acknowledgment that the 
Lord’s Human is Divine, and has omnipotence and omniscience…"

9

"…to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel…"



 The Hebrew meaning of Zerubbabel’s name is "seed of Babylon" or "born in 
Babylon." His family tree in Chronicles 3:17-19 shows that he is descended 
from David (through Solomon or Nathan).
In AR 43, we read that "…by ‘Zerubbabel,’ who is to build the house, thus the 
church, the Lord is represented…that in that church there will also be truths 
from a celestial origin."
Shealtiel, a descendent of David and a son of King Jeconiah, was Zerubbabel’s 
father. The name "Shealtiel" means either "God is a shield" or "God is victor."



 The words "son of…" denote truths that are derived from good, thus one 

origin. (AC 5515)

 As the governor of "Judah," Zerubbabel in the supreme sense signifies the 
Lord as to celestial love; in the spiritual sense, the celestial kingdom of the 
Lord and the Word; and in the natural sense the doctrine of the celestial 
church from the Word. (AR 350)

 Governors "signify generals…in which and under which are particulars…"(AC 
5290) Before we lose this concept of "generals" and "particulars," let’s read a 
quote from AC 848 [3] that explains how important they are in "building or 
rebuilding" ideas. "It is with regeneration exactly as with man’s birth as an 
infant. His life is then very obscure; he knows almost nothing, and therefore 
at first receives only general impressions of things, which by degrees become 
more distinct as particular ideas are inserted in them, and in these again still 
more minute particulars. Thus are generals illustrated by particulars…so it is 
with every one who emerges out of spiritual temptation…."

"…and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest…"

 This Joshua is not to be confused with the Joshua who succeeded Moses and 
led the children of Israel into the Promised Land. The Joshua of our study, like
his father and grandfather, was a high priest. His priestly role is mentioned in 
Ezra and Nehemiah. (In these two Minor Prophets, he is called "Jeshua.")
In the original Hebrew form, the name "Joshua" means "Yahweh is salvation," 
"Yahweh saves," or "Yahweh will save." The name "Jesus" grew out of the 
name Joshua.



 Priests represent the Lord as to His divine good. (AR 854) Priests are to teach 
truth and lead people to the good of life and so to the Lord. (AC 10794) The 
priesthood represents the Lord as to the work of salvation. (AC 9809)

 Only the high priest could enter into the Holy of Holies. Refer to the following 
numbers to read more about priestly duties and the representations of their 
grooming and clerical garb: AC 6148 [7], 9477, 9807, and 9809.

10

"[The word of the Lord, through the prophet Haggai came to]…the high priest, saying 
‘Thus speaks the Lord of hosts’…"

 The "Lord of hosts" signifies the Lord as to all good and truths fighting 



against falsities and evils. (AE 453 [6])
"Jehovah of hosts" signifies the church in its whole complex, by which the 
Lord removes the hells in general and with each person individually. (AE 734 
[8])

 When we read that "Jehovah said," it signifies that the Lord from the Divine 
Celestial through the Divine Spiritual perceives (thinks) and acts because 
"saying" involves both. (AC 2619)

 Thus we can see that the Lord’s (saying) announcement is full and complete. 
All of His Goods and Truths will be brought to Use to remove the influence of 
Hell, and His perception and acts will be for the birth of the New Church and 
the salvation of His people.

"This people says…"



Is the word "say" repeated so that we might see a contrast? The Lord’s saying 
will be different than the people’s saying. The Lord’s "saying" comes from an 
Infinite and Eternal perspective, and the people’s "saying" comes from the 
finite and temporal perspective. Keeping this in mind will be important for 
what comes next in Haggai’s prophecy.

"[The people say] the time has not come, the time that the Lord’s house should be 
built."







"You know how to discern the face of the sky, but you cannot discern the 
signs of the times." (Matthew 16:3)
"The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent, and believe 
in the gospel." (Mark 1:15)
"Take heed, watch and pray; for you do not know when the time is." (Mark 
13:33)

 The Lord told His disciples to beware of those who predict when and where 

He was to be found. (Matthew 24:23 and Mark 13:21)

 The point:

  The Lord, and not the people, knows the time for the building or 

rebuilding of His house.

 AC 710 tells us that "the house of the Lord" signifies the church in which love 

is primary within the celestial and spiritual church.

 The house of God in the internal sense signifies the church. In the more 
universal sense, it represents heaven. In the most universal sense, it 
represents the whole kingdom of the Lord. But in the supreme sense, it 
signifies the Lord Himself as to the Divine Human. (AC 3720)

11

 
"Then the word of the Lord came by Haggai the prophet, saying…"

 Reading this phrase is almost like hitting the "refresh" button on the 

computer. This phrase is repeated to remind us who is revealing these truths. 
This phrase, the "refresh" button, brings on line the latest, freshest, news 
from the Lord. These are not the words of some human named Haggai. These 
are the deeper thoughts of the Lord as He thinks and acts from the great 
resources of His Love and Wisdom. But coming through Haggai, the festival 
one, these words tell all in heaven and on earth the happy and necessary 
news of the power and salvation that is to come through the Lord’s Divine 
Human.

"Is it time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, and this temple to lie in 
ruins?"



In the Revised Standard Version (RSV) of the Bible and the New English 
Bible(NEB), the word "ceiling" is used place of "paneled." The Writings tell us 
the meaning of "ceiling" but not "paneled." AC 3391 [3] says "…ceiling with 
cedar…denotes falsifying intellectual and spiritual truths."

 The use of "you" and "yourselves" emphasizes the fallacy of human prudence 



caring first for itself while ignoring spiritual issues.
"Is it time" is the wonderful way the Lord gets us to reflect on our spiritual 
state. He knows the answer to that question. We lack perception and need to 
reflect so an answer can come to us "as-of-self."

 AC 3720 gives us many meanings of the word "temple": the Lord’s spiritual 
church, the spiritual kingdom, and (in the highest sense) His Divine Truth.
 The word "ruin" has many synonyms: stricken, stumble, crash, fallen, wasted, 
desolate, failure, dilapidated, wreck, impoverished, relic, and impure. Which 
of these words fit the internal sense? P&P introduces yet another word: 
devastated. "…the church among them has been devastated." How did that 
happen? The people of the church believed the "Messiah" would "exalt them 
to glory."

Putting It All Together

1. We must begin our summary with the statement found in P&P: "the church 

among them was devastated." How did that happen? After the many years of 
captivity, the minds of the people were longing for a "Messiah" who would 
restore their "world-power" status among the nations. In their minds, it was 
"pay-back" time, and they "believed the Messiah would come to exalt them to 
glory."

2. Such thinking made them lose their sense of "timing." The Lord wanted to 
move them from generals to particulars. He wanted them to return to the 
things of the Word. Patience, based on truth, needed to come among the 

12

people. As Isaiah 28:10put it: "For precept must be upon precept, precept 
upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little."
3. The people were not with the Lord at this time. It amounted to "the Lord 

says" versus "the people say." The call to the governor and the high priest is of
spiritual significance. The Lord’s deepest caring for the salvation of His 
people is represented by these offices. From His Celestial Love and Wisdom, 
the way is opened for everyone to emerge from the bondage of spiritual 
temptations.

4. But the Divine question has to reach and touch hearts. "Is it time for you 

yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses, and this temple to lie in ruins?" It
may appear that other things in life have to be addressed first. The time is 
right! The time is now! Look within and see where you falsified the 
intellectual and spiritual things of the church. Worship of the Lord is not a 
"me" thing. It is giving the Lord the best we have within us. Rebuilding and 
making the house of the Lord the center and power of our lives must be the 
first priority within the hearts and minds of the Lord’s children.
Isn’t it interesting to note that the prophet comes to the governor and high 
priest first? The governor represents the Lord as to celestial love and the 
spiritual sense of the Word. The high priest is meant to do the work of 
salvation by leading people to the good of life and the Lord. Joshua’s name 
means "Yahweh saves" or "Yahweh is salvation."

5.

6. Best of all, Haggai, whose name is "festive," gets to carry the celebratory news
to the disillusioned and lethargic ex-captives. Haggai shares the news that the
Messiah is coming. He is coming to restore order. His Divine Human will fight 
and overcome the hells, and He will help rebuild the "house of the Lord."

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 1:1-4

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. The first verse gives us a historical date to fix on: the second year of Darius, in
the sixth month, the first day…. The Writings open up our thinking by telling 
us these dates do not refer to any man’s life span. Instead, all dates and times 
refer to spiritual states and needs. When angels read names and dates, they 
do not "see" names or dates. They are aware of the spiritual significance of 
each thing. Look back and see what states the angels might see when they 
read these dates. What states did you see?

2. Falling out of "timing" with the Lord seems to be a human problem. We say. 
The Lord says. We feel the Lord’s way is slow. We feel the Lord is a hard 
taskmaster. The Lord says His yoke is easy and His burden is light. Do we 
generally feel that is the case? Can we identify with the wish to delay taking 

13

on certain spiritual responsibilities? What makes us feel this way? How do we
get out of step with the Lord?

3. What thoughts crossed your mind on the "paneled house" observation? From 
your perspective, is the house of the Lord inside you in a state of ruin? Is your
earthly house more comfortable than your spiritual house? Why?

4. "The Lord says…." What kind of things do you hear the Lord saying? Are other

voices (concerns) overriding His voice? What helps you to hear Him?

5. Generals to particulars: what a wonderful way to remind ourselves that the 

Lord wants steady progress. He isn’t interested in quantum leaps. Precept by 
precept, line upon line, here a little there a little. Think about the process of 
regeneration. What precepts or lines do you take on one at a time? How do 
we keep the (particular) larger goal in view as we take each small (general) 
step?

HAGGAI 1:5-6

"Now therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts: Consider your ways! You have sown much, 
and bring in little; you eat, but do not have enough; you drink, but you are not filled 
with drink; you clothe yourselves, but no one is warm; and he who earns wages, earns 
wages to put into a bag with holes."

Passages from the Writings

P&P



"They could no longer be taught by the Word."

Derived Doctrine

"Now therefore…"

 This phrase seems to say, "In spite of what you have been thinking, here are 

the facts as the Lord sees them."

"…thus says the Lord of hosts…"

 Please review the teachings about "saying" and "the Lord of Hosts" given in 

the previous section. (AE 453 [6] and AE 734 [8])

"Consider your ways…"

 The word "consider" commands the Jews to rethink, or reflect on, their ways. 
What were they to rethink? In AC 10566, there is a long list of the mistakes 
Israel made over the years:

14

o They thought they were the only people with whom the Divine was 

present, that they were the "nation of Jehovah."

o They thought nothing of the church.
o They thought only of possessions and eminence over others.
o They believed in God because they saw great miracles wrought by 

Him.

o They turned aside to worship many gods.

"You have sown much, and bring in little…"

 To understand this verse, we need to consider the word "appearances." It 
appeared that they sowed "the good of charity and the truth of faith." (AC 
6154) The results indicate that few real seeds must have been planted. Little 
is brought in. That is contrary to the Lord’s teachings that good ground would
yield some hundred-fold, some sixty, some thirty. (Matthew 13:8)

"You eat, but do not have enough…"

 AC 2343 teaches that eating signifies to communicate, be conjoined, and to 

appropriate. From this teaching, we get the picture that Israel went through 
the motions of "eating" without really taking much in. The words "do not 
have enough" seem to say they "ate crumbs" instead of the meal; another 
image is "standing in the midst of plenty starving." The lack of genuine 
communication with the Lord limited their spiritual sustenance and 
nourishment balance.

"You drink, but you are not filled with drink…"

 To drink wine signifies having a desire "to investigate the things which are of 

faith…" (AC 1071)



 AC 3089 describes drinking water as a desire to make "inquiry whether 
anything of truth …could be conjoined" or appropriated into one’s life.
It appears from the literal sense that desire, investigation, and appropriation 
were missing from their spiritual lives. The people felt this lack, a sense of 
thirst not being quenched from the "living waters." The Lord said, "Whoever 
drinks of the water that I shall give …will never thirst…. [My water] will 
become in him a fountain of water springing up into everlasting life." (John 
4:14)

"You clothe yourselves, but no one is warm…"

 AC 9003 teaches us that clothing signifies "memory-knowledges" that support

our external life.

 AE 240 [12] contrasts "clothed" with "naked." To be "naked" signifies "those…
who are not in truths and thence not in good, being ignorant of truths and yet

15

longing for them. This is the case with those within the church when those 
who teach are in falsities…and with those outside the church who do not have
the Word and consequently do not know truths and thence know nothing 
about the Lord."

 Our text seems to represent people somewhat between the clothed and the 
naked state. Such people know little things of faith but do not find them 
warm or comforting. They appear to be cold and useless facts with no 
extension or application.

"And he who earns wages, earns wages to put into a bag with holes."

 AC 8002 [4 & 5] tells us "…those who labored for hire, by them in the internal 

sense are meant those who do what is good for the sake of their own 
advantage in the world; and in a sense…for the sake of reward in the other 
life; thus who desire to merit by works…. Such cannot possibly be 
consociated with angels….The end is what determines the actions, and gives 
them their quality."

 Bags signify the exterior natural. (AC 5649) If that definition doesn’t help, 

check this one out: AC 5657 says bags represent truths given "gratuitously." 
The recipient feels doubtful of the worth of those truths, even though they 
are intended to provide confirmation.

 My question is this: Could these doubts about gratuitous truths given to the 

exterior natural be the holes in the bag that loses the wages?

Putting It All Together

1. P&P teaches: "They could no longer be taught by the Word." How sad is that?
2. The Lord tells them to consider their ways and fix the problem. The "many 

seeds" of their tradition were in reality a pretense that served little use. The 
repetitions of traditional chants, songs, and prayers were not the kind of 
"food" that brought genuine communication and conjunction with the Lord. 
They were not drinking deeply from the living waters of truth within the 
Word. The truths that should have clothed their minds and protected their 
externals were meager and inadequate: "No one is warm." The merit or 
recognition they sought was fleeting, a lost cause. "Consider your ways" is a 
call for Israel to begin anew. The Lord must be first in all things. Israel must 
receive the truths that are freely given every day and use them to confirm 
truth in the exterior natural. The Lord asks them to allow their lives and daily
commitments to the Lord to become the end that determines "the actions, 
and gives them their quality." (AC 8002 [5])

16

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 1:5-6.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. When the Lord advises us to "consider your ways," do we do so with a sense 
of agreement or a sense of resistance? Hell certainly has a field day with the 
Lord’s request. It tries to get us to put off any form of reflection. The hells tell 
us, "Why open this or that problem? Why dwell on negative things? If you 
want to open unpleasant things and dwell on the negative, try looking into a 
sewer system. Let bygones be bygones. Live for the moment!" "Carpe diem, 
quam minimum credula postero." Seize the moment; Enjoy today, trust little 
to tomorrow. What do you think about this philosophy of life? What makes it 
hellish?

2. The correspondential Derived Doctrine section seems fairly straight-forward:
sowing seed; drinking; clothing; and wages. What applications to life can you 
see for these correspondences?

3. AC 8002 has that wonderful line: "The end is what determines the actions, 
and gives them their qualities." How is this different from the statement of 
the world that says "the end justifies the means"?

4. Why would the hells want to prevent us from considering our ways? Could it 
be that if we consider our ways, the hells might have to go away? Certainly if 
we shun evils as sins, their "comfortableness in secret places" is jeopardized. 
Anything we take on from the Lord, such as love, stirs (agitates) them up 
greatly. Do you remember one of the definitions of temptation? "All 
temptation is an assault upon the love in which the man [person] is, and the 
temptation is in the same degree as is the love. If the love is not assaulted, 
there is no temptation." (AC 1690 [3]) In conclusion, we are taught the 
greater and purer our love is for the Lord, the greater is the assault against 
those loves from hell. Are we ready and willing to face such assaults? How 
can we face and conquer them?

5. Looking ahead, we will be faced with Haggai’s push to rebuild the Temple of 
the Lord. Are you thinking ahead as to what this represents for us today and 
for those coming after us? What do you think the temple represents?

HAGGAI 1:7-9

Thus says the Lord of hosts: "Consider your ways! "Go up to the mountains and bring 
wood and build the temple, that I may take pleasure in it and be glorified," says the 
Lord. "You looked for much, but indeed it came to little; and when you brought it home,
I blew it away. Why?" says the Lord of hosts. "Because of My house that is in ruins, 
while every one of you runs to his own house.

17

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"The church cannot be instituted among them, because every one looks to 
himself and not to the Lord…"

AC 1488 [2]



"In Haggai…‘houses’ denote memory-knowledges by which, through 
reasonings, come falsities." Haggai 1:8-10 is cited.

AC 3579[2]

 Haggai 1:9-10 are mentioned in AC 3579 [2], but the number explains the 

correspondential meaning of verse 10, so we will come back to this number 
in the next section.

AE 573 [7]



"From this it can be seen that the truths and goods of heaven and the church 
are meant in the Word by ‘hosts;’ which makes clear why it is that Jehovah is 
called in the Word ‘Jehovah Zebaoth.’ And ‘Jehovah God Zebaoth,’ that is, ‘of 
hosts’ as in …." Haggai 1:9 and 14 are cited.

Derived Doctrine

"Thus says the Lord of hosts: consider your ways!"

 Remember that when we read "Thus says the Lord", it means that the Lord is 
speaking from His totality. His Divine Love and Divine Wisdom have looked, 
assessed, and determined that this is the quality of the issue and this is the 
way goods and truths will fight against falsity and evil. (AE 453) This is the 
whole complex by which the Lord removes the hells. (AE 734 [8])

 To "consider your ways" is the work of spiritual reflection and repentance.

"Go up into the mountains and bring wood and build the temple…"

 To ascend or go up signifies to make advancements from memory-

knowledges to celestial light. (AC 1541)

 When said of human beings, ascending or going up signifies to go from a 

lower to a higher internal state. (AC 811 [21] and AE 1057 [5])

18

"…bring wood…"



Simply stated to bring wood represents the good that is in works of charity, 
and in justice. (AC 2784)

"…build the temple…"

 To build signifies to raise up or vivify (enliven, quicken, give life) what has 

fallen. (AC 151)

 To build signifies to form doctrinal things. (AC 1187, 1304)
 To build signifies that those who had receded from the truths and goods of 
the church will now return and help raise them up again. (AE 355 [9])
 To build signifies to restore the church by leading into the good of love and 

teaching the truths of doctrine. (AE 391 [17])

 A temple may signify to be or to become intelligent from divine truth and to 

realize a heavenly joy from such intelligence. (AE 630 [11])

 A temple signifies that in the New Jerusalem, external worship will not be 

separate from internal worship. (AE 918)

 A temple signifies that the Divine Human of the Lord, or truth itself, cannot 

be destroyed, for when it seems to be so, it rises again, glorified. (AC 7847 [4],
AC 10406 [4], and AE 220)

"…that I may take pleasure in it and be glorified…"

 Let’s read this lesson from AC 997 regarding pleasure, delight, and uses: "…a 
life of charity is a life of uses. Such is the life of the whole heaven; for the 
kingdom of the Lord, because it is a kingdom of mutual love, is a kingdom of 
uses. Every pleasure therefore which is from charity, has its delight from use. 
The more noble the use, the greater the delight… and so it is with every 
pleasure – the more noble its use, the greater its delight."

 Regarding the Lord, His Noble Uses are the source of the greatest pleasure 

and the greatest delight. They surely glorify His Holy Name. And how can we 
glorify Him? With the surrender of our hearts to His Noble uses.

"You looked for much, but it indeed came to little…"

 The loftiness of a person signifies having a desire to pursue or develop one’s 
"own" intelligence. (AE 445) Is the Lord sharing with us that "looking for 
much" represents wanting to have a lofty self-intelligence? If so, the answer 
seems clear. It will "come to little."

19

"And when you brought it home…"

 AC 3809 describes "bring to his house" as signifying conjunction. If a person 
seeks a lofty self-intelligence, he seeks to welcome it into his home and looks 
for ways to conjoin it to his "home."

"I blew it away…"

 Let’s consider what the "it" is in this prophecy. Can we assume that the "it" 
refers to self-intelligence, the artificialities and hatching of ideas from the 
unenlightened mind?

 Couple this idea with this quote from AE 419 [22]: "…in the spiritual world, as

in the natural world, strong winds and tempests spring up.… It has at 
different times been granted me to perceive these tempests and also the east 
wind by which the evil were dispersed and cast into the hells, when the Last 
Judgment was in progress." In other words, "winds" signify the dispersion of 
falsities and evils.

"Why?"

 The Writings have a wonderful series of passages about why the Lord asks, 

inquires, or interrogates people on certain issues when He already knows the
answer. See AC 226, 1931, 5800, and 6132 for illustrations. Here is a short 
answer drawn from AC 226: "…the reason for asking is that man may 
acknowledge and confess." The Lord seeks to lead us to the end, cause, and 
effect of things. His questions show us internal disorders that lie hidden in 
secret places. The questions are intended to help us discover things when our
state is ready to acknowledge and confess our mistakes.

"Because of My house that is in ruins, while every one of you runs to his own house."

 The Lord’s house is in ruins. What does this represent in the spiritual sense?
 A house signifies accumulated memory-knowledges. (AC 1488)
 A house signifies scientifics (facts, data, memory-knowledges) that are 

collected together. To collect scientifics is to raise and build up the external 
person. (AC 1488)

 The house of the Lord signifies the church, heaven, and more universally the 

Lord Himself as to the Divine Human. (AC 3720)

 Contrast the above with what would be in a human being’s "house."
 Running to our own house illustrates that we are comfortable with our ways 
and not as familiar with the Lord’s ways. How quickly do we use human 
prudence without considering the ways of the Lord? Is it a surprise to hear 
that the Lord’s house is in ruins while our "house" is cared for more often?

20

Putting It All Together

1. P&P announces that a church cannot be instituted among people who look to 
themselves and not to the Lord. For those who rely on memory-knowledges, 
or scientifics, there is but one end: reasoning that gives rise to falsities. The 
human mind void of the Lord’s good and truth becomes inventive. It hatches 
ideas that are inconsistent with eternal truths. These artificial ideas tear 
away at the base of the Lord’s house (within the individual) and leave it in a 
state of ruin.

2. "Consider your ways" is a call to reflection. It is an invitation to come aboard 
and participate in what is going to happen spiritually. The Lord is going to 
blow away the world of falsity and illusion. We need to gather "wood." The 
Temple of the Lord is going to be built with Love, Charity, and Justice. The 
house of the Lord (His Temple) will once again offer the kind of worship that 
will help His people see Him in the Divine Human.

3. Do you remember the history of the five Churches? The Most Ancient Church 
worshipped the Lord as the Divine Human. The Ancient Church worshipped 
Him as the Divine Human Representative. The Jewish Church worshipped 
Him as the Invisible One and feared to speak His Name. The Christian Church 
worshipped Him as the Son of Man and Son of God. But the announcement to 
the New Church carried the good news that we could once again worship the 
invisible as visible. The Divine Human would come among us—the Nunc Licet
—so that we might enter into the mysteries of faith with understanding. This 
would be The New Jerusalem, the crown of all churches, whose kingdom shall
be forever and ever.
But within this prophecy is a warning. If we care more for our houses than 
the Lord’s house, we will miss out on the rebirth and restoration of spiritual 
order. Human prudence will be blown away, "says the Lord of hosts."

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 1:7-9.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. Compare the passages from the Writings and the Word with the doctrine we 
derived from them. Do you feel this section followed that direct teachings of 
the Writings? Can you think of other teachings that would contribute to our 
discussion here?

2. How difficult is it to keep the house of the Lord in better shape than our own?

Why?

21

3. Have you ever "hatched" artificial ideas to fit into the things of the Word? 

What are some ways that such artificialities manifest themselves in the world
and the church?

4. Think about the Lord blowing "it" away. Smog often results from pollutants 

hanging over a city. What chases that stagnation away? A "breath of fresh air." 
So it is with the Lord and truth. We need His help in clearing away the smog 
of the mind. How does He clear the air? How can we help?

5. The invisible becoming visible: that is a promise of revelation. It will come, 
but it will come as each individual opens his or her heart and mind to the 
Second Coming. Don’t we long for it to happen at a faster pace? Could it be 
that the Lord still has to get many more people to consider their ways and 
that He has to ask more questions among His people?

HAGGAI 1:10-11

"Therefore the heavens above you withhold the dew, and the earth withholds its fruit. 
For I called for a drought on the land and the mountains, on the grain and the new 
wine and the oil, on whatever the ground brings forth, on men and livestock, and on all
the labor of your hands."

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"…therefore no truth or good can be received by them."

AC 3579 [2]



"…that ‘dew’ signifies truth…and speaking of a new church, where the ‘vine 
giving its fruit’ denotes the spiritual of the church or the truth of faith, giving 
good; and the ‘earth giving its produce,’ the celestial of the church or the good
of charity, giving truth; these are the ‘dew which the heavens shall give." "In 
Haggai 1:9, 10…where the ‘dew of the heavens and the produce of the earth,’ 
which were restrained, have a like signification."

AC 3580 [2]



"…‘wine’ is what is spiritual, thus truth from good…. That ‘corn and new wine’
have this signification, may be seen…In Haggai 1:10, 11… where ‘drought’ 
denotes a lack of dew and of rain, thus a lack of truth derived from any good; 
‘a drought upon the corn’ is a lack of good; and ‘drought upon the new wine’ 
is a lack of truth."

22

Derived Doctrine

Remember, the doctrines tell us that the heavens withholding dew and the earth 
withholding fruit represent the loss of good and truth. It is not the Lord withholding 
these things. It is the heart and mind of the individual who "cuts" it off. The person is
the one with a cold heart and a state barren of the produce the soul needs each 
moment.

"…‘year of drought’"

 A drought "signifies a state of loss and deprivation of truth." (AE 481 [2])
 Drought signifies the "absence of good and truth." (AC 1949)
 Drought denotes truths wherein there is nothing of life. (AC 8869)
 A drought signifies "sounding words without any spirit in them. (AC 10406 

[7])

 A drought signifies "deprivation of truth." (AE 355 [16])
 A drought signifies a church "where there is no good." (AE 504 [27])
 A drought represents a state without perception of good. (AE 537 [14])
 A year in the internal sense does not refer to 365 days. To the angels, who are 
in the internal sense of the Word, a year signifies what is full in respect to the 
states of the church and what is eternal. (AC 2906)

"I called for a drought on the land and on the mountains…"

 AC 2571 shares these representations of the word "land":

o The internal man of the church.
o The region where the church is.
o The church itself.
o In the universal sense, the Lord’s kingdom in heaven and on earth.
o The doctrine of love and charity where the faith of the church resides.



"On the mountains" signifies where the good of celestial love prevails. (AC 
10438)

 A mountain signifies the church where love to the Lord and worship prevails.

(AE 734 [2])

 There are so many more references we could cite. A mountain provided the 
setting for the reception of the Decalogue. Therefore, it could represent the 
laws of the Lord setting life in order. A mountain provided the children of 
Israel with moments of respite when they traveled through the desert. 
Therefore, a mountain represented moments of peace and tranquility prior to
a return to the valley to face the arduous task of regeneration.

"… [a drought] on the grain and the new wine and the oil…"

 Let’s note the trine here: grain, wine, and oil.

23

o The Writings translate the words "drought upon the grain" to "a 

drought upon corn," which represents a lack of good.
o The drought upon the new wine represents a lack of truth.
o A drought on the oil means a lack of the good of love to the Lord from 

the Lord. See AC 10261 or AE 375 [24 –26].

"… [a drought] on whatever the ground brings forth, on men and on livestock, and on 
all the labor of your hands."



In the positive sense, "To bring forth" signifies the restoration and 
reformation of the church. "‘…to bring forth’ signifies to make them fruitful 
and bring them forth in act, which is to live according to them, and thus be 
reformed…"(AE 721 [10, 18]) When the drought is introduced, it means the 
opposite happened.

 Man, in the positive sense, represents or signifies the wisdom and 

intelligence necessary to fight against falsity. (AC 49)

 Livestock (cattle) "…in the original tongue is from a word which also means 

‘acquisition,’ and ‘acquisition’ in the spiritual sense is also truth from which is
good, for the reason that good is acquired by means of truth." (AC 6049)

 Livestock signifies the good of truth. (AC 6016)
 Livestock signifies the forms of good and truth. (AC 6009)
 The labor of one’s hands or the fruit of one’s hands represents pursuit of life 

according to the Lord’s commandments. (AE 340 [13])

 Hands signify power, and what is in a person’s power is at his or her disposal.

(AC 5296)

 The works of a person’s hands signify the things proper to them, which are 
evil and false. The works of the Lord’s hands signify the things that are 
proper to Him, which are goods and truths. (AR 457)

Putting It All Together

1. When anyone looks to themselves and not the Lord, "no truth can be received
by them." (P&P) When a person looks to him- or herself for good and truth, 
the heavens dry up. There is no morning dew to refresh the ground. When 
anyone looks to memory-knowledges or the natural lumen, the mind (earth) 
can bear no spiritual fruit. A spiritual drought touches the land, the 
mountains, the grain, the wine, and the oil. When a person looks to the 
strength of his or her hands, that person’s labor is for the moment and not 
eternity.

2. Sad to say, a life apart from the Lord takes away the livestock—acquisitions—
for which we are to care. Livestock correspond to every essential of life that 
forms good and truth. Such things are essential for our souls. Our spiritual 
livestock must feed, cloth, and nurture the rational mind and spiritual life.
Into such conditions Haggai was called. He had to call on the governor and 
the high priest to lead the way. He had to repeat over and over, "Consider 

3.

24

your ways." Haggai had to call attention to the inappropriate priorities. He 
spoke of true priorities, telling the people that the Lord had to be first and 
their comforts second.
Will the people listen? Will they quit making excuses and blaming others for 
their indifference and neglect of the Lord?

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 1:10-11.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. What method do you use to keep spiritual priorities on top of your life’s "to 

do" list?

2. Dew has an interesting correspondence. It plays a part in the manna story. It 
plays a part in Gideon’s story. How can this "dew" reach your practical every 
day experiences?

3. The correspondences of draught remind us of all kinds of dryness. By itself, 
doctrine, or study of the Word, can seem dry to us. How can we "wet" these 
things so the Lord can use them to give us living water? How we let studying 
the Word bring rain back to the land and the mountains?

4. Livestock represent every essential of life. Thinking of animals as an essential
of life is not my usual mode of thinking. How about you? On the other hand, 
can we still care for the essentials of life without thinking about the 
correspondence of livestock? How do we move from understanding a 
correspondence to understanding its application to life?

5. Does Haggai, as a prophet, sound and feel gentler in his prophecy than Amos 

or Nahum? Why or why not? What might account for the difference?

HAGGAI 1:12-15

"Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest,
words of Haggai the prophet, as the Lord their God had sent him; and the people 
feared the presence of the Lord.

Then Haggai, the Lord’s messenger, spoke the Lord’s message to the people, saying, ‘I 
am with you, says the Lord.’

So the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, 
and the spirit of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and the spirit of all the 
remnant of the people; and they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts, 
their God, on the twenty-fourth day of the sixth month, in the second year of King 
Darius."

25

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"The church will be instituted among those who are wise from the Word."

AC 573 [7-8]



"…the truths and goods of heaven and the church are meant in the Word by 
‘hosts;’ which makes clear why it is that Jehovah is called in the Word 
‘Jehovah Zebaoth,’ and ‘Jehovah God Zebaoth,’ that is, ‘of hosts’ (as in…Haggai 
1:9, 14…). From this it is now evident that ‘hosts’ signify the truths and goods
of heaven and the church in the whole complex; and as most things in the 
Word have also a contrary sense, so do ‘hosts’ and in that sense they signify 
falsities and evils in their whole complex…"

Doctrine of the Lord 47



"There are in man two fountains of life, one is the motion of the heart, and the
other is the respiration of the lungs. The life from the respiration of the lungs 
is what is properly meant by ‘spirit’ and also by ‘soul.’ That this acts as one 
with the man’s thought from the understanding, and that the life from the 
heart’s motion acts as one with his will’s love, will be seen…."

Doctrine of the Lord 48, ii



"As man’s life varies according to his state, by ‘spirit’ is meant the varying 
affection of life in man. As…The excitation of life…" Haggai 1:14 is cited as one
of the examples.

Derived Doctrine

Zerubbabel

 AR 43 helps us focus on the derived doctrine we will need to use for the 



closing verses of chapter one. "…by ‘Zerubbabel’ who is to build the house, 
thus the church, the Lord is represented…"
In AR 350, we are taught that Zerubbabel as a governor represents the Lord 
as to His celestial love; the celestial kingdom of the Lord and the Word; and in
the natural sense, the celestial church from the Word.

Joshua



Joshua, the high priest, represents the Lord as to the work of salvation. (AC 
9809)

26

"…with all the remnant of the people…"

 A "remnant" signifies those within the church who are in good. (AC 3322 [4])

"The remnant of the people" signifies truths stored up by the Lord in the 
interior person. (AC 5113 [8])
"Remnants" signify the truths and goods stored up in a person by the Lord 
from infancy. (AE 724 [29])



"…obeyed the voice of the Lord their God…"

 Listening, or harkening, denotes "obedience from affection." (AC 3684)
 When the spiritual man disposes all things in the natural man, the natural 





man ought to obey as a servant of his Lord. (AC 3167)
"…the voice of the Lord" in the Word signifies the Word itself, the doctrine of 
faith, and also the conscience. (AC 219)
"Voice" signifies what is enunciated from the Word, thus the precepts of the 
Lord. (AC 8360)

"And the people feared the presence of the Lord."

 Fear has many meanings. Let’s look first at what is called "holy fear." Holy fear
has within it a longing (love) for the Divine. With that longing is a desire not 
to do anything that would offend the love for the Lord. (AC 3718)

 Fearing; being not afraid "signifies resuscitation, and then adoration from the
deepest humiliation". Holy fear sometimes is accompanied with a sacred 
tremor of the mind’s interiors as there is a sense of the Lord’s entrance to 
replace one’s (proprium) own life. (AR 56)

"I am with you, says the Lord."

 Do we really need to cite doctrinal sources for this sentence? The Lord is 

Omnipresent, omnipotent, and omniscient: all present, all powerful, and all 
knowing. The Lord saying, "I am with you" is of great value when any 
rebuilding of the temple is undertaken.

"So the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel … and the spirit of Joshua…and the 
spirit of the remnant of the people…"

 Look again at the passage from Doctrine of the Lord 48. The "spirit of 

excitation" is involved in this portion of the text. A sense of newness, a sense 
of restoration entered into the hearts and minds of the people mentioned in 
the prophecy.

27

"…they came and worked on the house of the Lord of hosts, their God."

 We can rework this sentence with the help of AC 573 [8]. They came and 
worked on "the truths and goods of heaven and the church in the whole 
complex." The people came to understand the meaning of dedication, 
commitment, and endeavor.

Putting It All Together

1. "The church will be instituted among those who are wise from the Word." 

(P&P)

2. Obeying, harkening to the Word of the Lord, brings about powerful results. 

The spirit of excitation fills us. A sense of possibility replaces defeatism. How 
many times have we felt the voice of negativity dampen our spirit of 
enthusiasm? In this story, the Lord’s leadership of governors and priests 
brings action. Holy fear, a sense of humility and love, causes the soul to 
tremble with anticipation as the "old ways" are removed and replaced by the 
"new ways." The coming of the New Church whisks in with a breath of fresh 
air to clear away the smog of falsity.

"Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams." (I Samuel 
15:22)

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 1:12-15.

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. This section strikes a strongly positive note. Could you feel a sense of the 
building of "excitation of the spirit"? Look for examples in the passage.
2. By now, you have had plenty of practice at thinking from correspondences. 
Are you seeing what is behind the literal sense? Are you also applying what 
you see to current life issues?

3. Listening and obeying require a certain inner discipline. There’s a song that 

says, "you only hear as well as you listen." The rebellious part of us is quick to
use "yes, but" arguments to avoid some responsibilities. Yes, the Lord will 
rebuild, but in light of (some example is given)…it probably will not happen. 
How many "yes, buts" have you heard or used? What is dangerous about 
them?

4. The Lord’s New Church is growing. Every day, we move closer to its 

fulfillment. What would you pick as your best contribution to this spiritual 
cause? How can you make that contribution each day?

28

5.

In your marriage, in your relationship with family and friends, how do you 
see "holy fear" as an asset?

29

Chapter Two

HAGGAI 2:1-3

"In the seventh month, on the twenty-first of the month, the word of the Lord came by 
Haggai the prophet, saying: ‘Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of 
Judah, and Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the 
people, saying; Who is left among you who saw this temple in its former glory? And 
how do you see it now? In comparison with it, is this not in your eyes as nothing?’ "

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"The church when first instituted was full of truths; at the present day it is 
devastated."

Derived Doctrine

"In the seventh month…"

 A month signifies the end of a preceding and the beginning of a subsequent 

state, thus a new state. (AC 3814)

 A month refers to the state of truth in man. (AR 22 and 935)
 A month signifies a full or plenary state. (AR 489)
 A month signifies a state of life as to truth. (AR 925)


Seven in general signifies the Lord’s advent into the world, and also His 
advent into His glory; and every advent of His in particular. (AC 728)
Seven occurs in the Word when anything holy is treated of, and, in the 
opposite sense, anything profane. (AR 10)
Seven signifies the Lord, and representatively, celestial love. (AC 5265)





"…on the twenty-first of the month…"

 The "twenty-first" signifies a holy state and its end. Twenty-one comes when 

we multiply three times seven. (AC 7842, 7903)

"Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel…"

 This phrase is mentioned, or repeated, six times: Haggai 1:1, Haggai 1:12 

(title of "governor of Judah" is not mentioned), Haggai 1:14 (title of "governor
of Judah" is mentioned), Haggai 2:2, Haggai 2:21, and Haggai 2:23 (title of 
"governor of Judah" is not mentioned and "my servant" is used).

30

"Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest…"

 This phrase is repeated five times: Haggai 1:1, Haggai 1:12, Haggai 1:14, 

Haggai 2:2, and Haggai 2:4.

"…remnant of the people…."

 This phrase occurs three times: Haggai 1:12, Haggai 1:14, and Haggai 2:2.

Why should we note these repetitions? We have no doctrinal explanation why 
"the sons of," "governor of Judah," "high priest," and "remnant of the people" are 
repeated so often in Haggai. Yet, there they are. I think we ought to contemplate 
reasons for the repetition, keeping our minds open and ready for influx from the 
Lord.

"Who is left among you who saw this temple [Lord’s house] in its former glory?"

 The Divine inquisition, the Lord’s gentle probing of their hearts and minds, 
had a purpose. The question He asked them directed them to reflect on the 
"former glory" and beauty of the representatives of the Divine Human as seen
in the temple built under Solomon’s leadership. Where did Solomon get his 
architectural inspiration? The Lord or his own creativity?

 AC 7847 [4] has this interesting teaching regarding the signification of 

temple: "…in the supreme sense by ‘temple’ is meant the Lord as to the Divine
Human… therefore in the representative sense by a ‘temple’ is meant His 
church…"

 Please read AE 220. This number has many "temple signifies" references to 

the Divine Human, the Word, the church, and the New Church.

 The divine question seems to be leading the remnant back to "a first love" 
experience of the Lord as the Divine Human. The tacit command is to build 
their church with the Divine Human as their blueprint.

"…how do you see it now? In comparison with it, is this not in your eyes as nothing?"

 The word "how" has a wide variety of usages in our vocabulary: "In what 

manner or way; to what degree or extent, number or amount; in what state 
or condition; for what reason; why; with what meaning; to what 
effect."(Webster’s Dictionary)
"…how do you see it now …" Seeing signifies the perception from the Lord of 
truths from the Word.



 How they perceived the Lord and how they acknowledged Him was an 

important discovery for the people of the church before "rebuilding" got 
underway. (AC 938)

31

"…is this not in your eyes as nothing?"

 AC 2276 [2-3] describes a state that sounds something like what we have in 

this verse. Some in the church "valued so little the Lord’s merit, and 
redemption and salvation by Him." To illustrate this truth, the story of "thirty 
pieces of silver" is used.

 At first, restoring the temple was important to the people. But with adversity 
from the Samaritans and poor economical and produce returns, the house of 
the Lord sat unfinished. For sixteen years, the ruined temple stood 
untouched. "Is this not in your eyes as nothing?"

Putting It All Together

1. As we often do, let’s begin by following the spiritual lead of the quote found 

in P&P. "The church when first instituted was full of truths; at the present day
it is devastated."
This seems to make sense when we view their captivity, the loss of their 
center of worship, their place among a people who believed in self-worship, 
and their subjection to a king who demanded to be worshipped as a god. The 
march of daily absurdities over a long period of time must have "muted" the 
alarm system of their spiritual conscience. What a tremendous toll it took on 
all of the Jewish children born in Babylon. Doing and accepting the "norms" 
of their peers had to be detrimental to the truths of the Lord.

2. Repetition of phrases within this section seems to mirror the Lord bringing 
the people back to essentials. The persistent recurrence of phrases in the 
message given by Haggai helped to reestablish the source of their spiritual 
heritage. The question "who among you saw the temple in its former glory" 
draws them back to their remains. Then the Lord, like a loving parent, asks 
them how they see the temple now: "…is it anything in your eyes?" The lesson
sets before us a powerful question: "how do you see it now?"

3. For us, this passage might point to things within us and within the church. Do
we remember how we approached the Lord when we were children? Didn’t 
we come to the Word with more openness, acceptance, and joy? Did we not 
thrill with the stories of the Word and its heroes and good winning out over 
evil? But then we entered school, and the world began asking us what we 
wanted to become when we "grew up." With that question impressed on us, 
we turned our attention to the rigors of getting into college and finding ways 
to pay for it all. The thrill of marriage, raising a family, wiping noses, putting 
bandages on cuts and bruises, taking children to music lessons, car-pooling, 
etc., etc. filled our lives. Is it any wonder that the temple of the Lord gets 
pushed aside by a degree of captivity?
The temple of the Lord can get left behind, and the joy of hearing truths from 
the Word suffers and disintegrates. The question "how do you see it now?" is 
worth reflection. Hikers lost in the woods, without a compass, must find a 

32

clearing where directional clues may be found to help them get their 
bearings. Care to take the time to look?

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:1-3.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. How far, and long, do you think we get carried off in captivity to 

"Babylonians"? Does this vary with our state of life? Are there ways to avoid 
this pitfall?

2. How can we release ourselves from "Babylonian" control?
3. Do you believe our spiritual consciences can be "muted" by the daily 

absurdities going on all around us? How do we receive messages from our 
consciences? Think of experiences with your conscience being heard and 
ignored.

4. Repetition in the Lord’s Word is good. It tries to draw us back to innocence. 
However, there is a danger of seeing the repetition as a boring nuisance. Do 
you have any suggestions to help us listen and not "numb out" the call to 
rebuild?

HAGGAI 2:4-5

"‘Yet be strong, Zerubbabel,’ says the Lord; and strong, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the 
high priest; ‘and be strong, all you people of the land,’ says the Lord, ‘and work; for I 
am with you,’ says the Lord of hosts. ‘According to the word that I covenanted with you 
when you came out of Egypt, so My Spirit remains among you; do not fear!’"

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"Nevertheless a church will be instituted."

AE 573 [7]



"The tribes were called ‘hosts’ because the twelve tribes taken together 
represented all the truths and goods of the church, and each tribe some 
universal essential of the church …from all this it can be seen that the truths 
and goods of heaven and the church are meant in the Word by ‘hosts;’ which 

33

makes clear why it is that Jehovah…God is called…’of hosts’…" Haggai 1:9, 14; 
2:4, 8, 23 are cited.

Derived Doctrine

"Yet be strong…



In this passage, the Lord commands Zerubbabel, Joshua, and the people to be 
strong.

 Remember that Zerubbabel’s name means "born in Babylon or seed of 

Babylon."
Joshua’s name means "Yahweh saves."


 Mentioned in this way, the "people" may signify "doctrines." See AC 4485.
 As a general symbol of strength, iron represents truth that cannot be resisted.

(AC 426 [3])

 What can we draw from the brief derived doctrinal notes above? During their 
Babylonian captivity, seeds of self-worship must have entered the minds of 
the Israelites and grown roots in their spiritual heritage. Consequently, they 
practiced external worship with little inner meaning. In this passage, the 
Lord seems to prepare to rebuild the spiritual temple by announcing the 
strength of His truth, strength like an iron that cannot be resisted.
"Be strong, Zerubbabel" seems to show where the Lord would begin this 
restoration project. The nation’s mixture of Babylonian and Jewish heritage 
mirrored the mixture of truth and falsity present with them. The Lord would 
first separate truth from falsity to bring order so that a new, enlightened 
leadership could guide the people with a spiritual prudence.



 The "be strong Joshua, the high priest…" is a command to the church and all 



of its forms of worship. The church must have a Divine strength, basic 
doctrinal truths, that cannot be resisted. No more mind games. No more 
bending and twisting truth to fit selfish priorities. Worship must be genuine; 
it must rise from the strength of the Lord’s Word.
"Be strong all you people of the land…" is a promise from the Lord to the 
people that any doctrines they carried with them and applied to life would 
become their own, an internal strength to lean on and follow. In place of blind
faith or historical faith, He would give them true faith so they could "enter 
into the mysteries of faith with understanding." This exhortation for strong 
doctrines suits Haggai, the man whose name means "festival." His message is 
worthy of spiritual celebration.

"…work; for I am with you, says the Lord of hosts."

 Work signifies seeking what is true and doing what is good. (AC 63)
 Work, deeds, offices, and uses signify doing things for the neighbor, the 

country, the church, and the Lord’s kingdom. (AC 6073)

34

 Work signifies that the people were not to be exempted from things that 

would be hard to bear. (AC 7104)

 Work is a good thing. It brings a sense of completion and exercises the "as-of-



self" in a healthy way.
"…for I am with you." To get some help with this phrase, we can think of the 
Lord promising to support or sustain us. "Sustaining" signifies getting 
internal strength or influx from the Lord to help support our external 
activities. (AC 9959 [2])

"According to the word that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt…"

 We might ask, "Which covenant are we to look up for our study of the internal
sense?" In the book of Exodus, there are five references to a covenant: Exodus
6:7, Exodus 19:5, Exodus 20:1-7, Exodus 24:7, and Exodus 34:10. In addition, 
we need to look up the representation of the word "covenant."

o "…there can be no covenant between the Lord and man other than 
conjunction by love and faith, and therefore ‘covenant’ signifies 
conjunction." (AC 665)

o "…a ‘covenant’ signifies nothing else than regeneration and the things 
pertaining to regeneration…. The Lord Himself is called the ‘Covenant’ 
because it is He alone who regenerates…. In Malachi 3:1-2 the Lord is 
called the ‘angel of the Covenant’…. In Isaiah 55:3-4… [He is called] 
‘covenant of eternity’…" (AC 666)

o In Exodus 24:7, Moses reading the "Book of the Covenant" to the 

people represents the Lord showing (leading) them into the change of 
state they needed to make so conjunction with Him could come. "All 
that the Lord hath spoken we will do and hear," said the people when 
Moses read to them from this great book of peace.

 Coming out of Egypt

  has an interesting representation when we contrast it 

with being in Egypt. When a person is in Egypt, it represents the natural 
person separated from the spiritual person, the natural focus on self and the 
world instead of the Lord. It represents a person following the pride of self-
intelligence and thereby perverting his or her rational. Coming out of Egypt is
a turning point where the natural person seeks conjunction with the Lord. 
The person then seeks the things of the Word as his or her covenant with the 
Lord.(AE 654 [48])

"…so My spirit remains among you; do not fear!"

 The Lord’s spirit represents mercy (AC 19) and truth (AC 24).

Spirit, when spoken of the Lord, signifies the life of His Wisdom. (AC 49-51)
 The words "remains among you" and "do not fear" convey confidence, love, 
and courage to the minds and hearts of His people. A picture of the Lord 
taking children in His arms comes to mind when I read these promises. The 

35

 
Lord’s conjunction brings all the resources of His Love and Wisdom to the 
uses we serve.

Putting It All Together

1. P&P makes an announcement: "…a church will be instituted." There is no 
equivocation about it. Not maybe, not someday, not "I hope there will be." 
Instead, it is a firm statement: "a church will be instituted."
Be strong, governor. Be strong, priest. Be strong, people. This trine is worthy 
of notice. We may have the "seeds" of Babylon within us, but we also have the 
seeds of innocence and a soul formed by the Lord. No matter how distracted 
we become with the world’s goals and activities, the Lord will still call us out 
of Egypt. We can set aside the self-directing wisdom of our natural side and 
listen to what the "Book of the Covenant" teaches so that we can sing with 
sincerity, "All that the Lord has spoken, we will do and hear." What is the 
motto of this New Church song? We will do and obey!

2. Think about listening to the "angel of the Covenant." The "covenant of peace" 
allows the spiritual priestly uses to become strong and able to assist us in 
finding the "good of life." Worship will move out of the realm of custom and 
tradition into the realm of spontaneous and voluntary joy. This covenant will 
allow love to lead, selecting and marrying the truths of the Word with a 
conjugial principle in mind.

3. With a sincere worship of the Lord, the doctrines we use will spread 

throughout the "land," the minds of the Lord’s people, to build a "temple" 
worthy and representative of our Lord.

4. Because we know a church will be instituted, we can work with more relaxed 
hearts and minds. The Lord will be among us, and we have nothing to fear 
from the hells. He is in charge and will give us the perception and materials to
build the new temple of worship.

5. Be not afraid! "Do not fear, little flock, for it is your Father’s good pleasure to 

give you the kingdom."

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:4-5.

Questions To Stimulate Reflections

1. The history of secular covenants is interesting. Basically, there are four kinds:
o Suzerainty (the word means "above" or over lord). In this type of 

covenant, a superior binds an inferior to obligations defined by the 
superior.

o Parity. In this type, both parties are bound by an oath.

36

o Patron. In this covenant, the superior binds him- or herself to some 

obligation for the benefit of an inferior.

o Promissory. A guaranty is given that future performances of stipulated

obligations will be entered into and kept.

Do any, or all, of these covenants come close to the Lord’s covenant with 
humanity? Why or why not?

2. Throughout our study, it is important to pay attention to our own reactions to
the teachings we are learning, remembering that they apply to us as much as 
they did to the children of Israel. What does this section do for your 
confidence and courage? Can the Lord’s Word pull us out of Egypt? How?
3. Have you ever wondered about that song, "All that the Lord has spoken we 

will do and hear."? Have you felt the order is reversed? Do and hear. Shouldn’t 
it be "hear and do"? Does it help to see that hearing represents obedience? Is 
the meaning "do and obey"?

HAGGAI 2:6-9

"For thus says the Lord of hosts: ‘Once more (it is a little while) I will shake heaven and
earth, the sea and the dry land; ‘and I will shake all nations, and they shall come to the 
Desire of All Nations, and I will fill this temple with glory,’ says the Lord of hosts. The 
silver is Mine, and the gold is Mine,’ says the Lord of hosts. The glory of the latter 
temple shall be greater than the former,’ says the Lord of hosts. ‘And in this place I will 
give peace,’ says the Lord of hosts."

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"When the Lord comes into the world, this church will be an interior church."

AC 28



"It is a very common thing in the Word for ‘waters’ to signify knowledges, and
consequently for ‘seas’ to signify a collection of knowledges…." Haggai 2:6-7 
is cited as an example.

AR 331



"‘Earthquakes’ signify changes of state in the church, because ‘the earth’ 
signifies the church; and because in the spiritual world, when the state of the 
church is perverted anywhere, and there is a change, there is an earthquake, 
and as this a prelude to their destruction, there is terror…. Hence it may 
appear what is meant by ‘earthquakes,’ ‘shakings,’ and ‘commotions’ of the 
earth, in the following passages…. [Haggai 2:6-7 is cited among others 

37

passages.] But these things are to be understood as being done in the 
spiritual world, but not in the natural world…."

AE 400 [12]



"In Haggai 2:6, 7… This is said of the rebuilding of the temple in Jerusalem, 
and the ‘new temple’ there signifies a new church that is to be established by 
the Lord. This is meant by ‘Yet once, it is for a little while,’ and by ‘then I will 
make all nations quake that the choice of all nations may come; and I will fill 
this house with glory,’ ‘nations’ and ‘the choice of nations’ signifying all who 
are in good …‘house’ signifying the church, and ‘glory’ Divine truth. This new 
church is further described by ‘the temple’ in that chapter thus…. The 
judgment in the spiritual world that will precede is described by ‘I will make 
the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land to quake’ ‘the heavens
and the earth’ meaning all interior things of the church, and ‘sea and dry land’
all the exterior things of it."

AC 1551 [3–4]



"…it is plain that here ‘gold’ is the wealth of wisdom, and ‘silver’ the wealth of
intelligence…. In Haggai 2:7-9…the Lord’s church is treated of, [where]…‘gold’
and ‘silver’ are predicated."

AR 912



"The reason why ‘gold’ signifies the good of love, is because metals, as well as 
each and everything which appears in the natural world, correspond: gold to 
the good of love, silver to the truths of wisdom, copper or brass to the good of
charity, and iron to the truths of faith…. That ‘gold’ from correspondence 
signifies the good of love, may appear from the following passages…" Haggai 
2:8-9 is cited among many other passages.

AE 220 [8]



"…there are many other passages in the Word where ‘temple’ is mentioned. 
That it may be known that ‘temple’ means heaven and the church, as also 
Divine truth proceeding from the Lord, I will cite…passages here, lest the 
mind should cling to the idea that a mere temple is meant, and not something
more holy; for the temple in Jerusalem was holy because it represented and 
thus signified what is holy…." Haggai 2:7-9 is among the many passages cited.

AE 242 [19]



"…Haggai 2:7, 9… treats of the coming of the Lord; by ‘nations’ those who are 
in good and in truths therefrom are meant; by ‘house’ the church (AC, n. 

38

3720); ‘the glory with which it shall be filled’ means Divine truth …. ‘The 
silver is Mine, and the gold,’ means that truth and good are from the Lord 
alone." Haggai 2:7-9 is the cited passage.

AR 191



"By ‘temple,’ in the supreme sense, the Lord is signified as to the Divine 
Human, in particular as to the Divine truth; but, in the representative sense, 
by ‘temple’ is signified the Lord’s church in heaven, and…in the world…. That 
temple signifies the church in the world is manifest from these passages…" 
Haggai 2:7, 9 is cited among other passages.

AC 3780 [5]

 Haggai 2:9, along with many other passages, is cited with the following 

explanation: "In all these passages in the supreme sense ‘peace’ signifies the 
Lord; and in the representative sense His kingdom, and good from the Lord…
thus the Divine which flows into the good, or into affections of good, which 
causes joy and happiness from the inmost (the soul)."

Heaven and Hell (H&H) 287 [2]



"That it is Divine and heavenly peace that is meant in the Word by ‘peace’ can 
be seen…from other passages where it is mentioned…Haggai 2:9…. Because 
‘peace’ means the Lord and heaven, and also heavenly joy and the delight of 
good, ‘Peace be with you’ was an ancient form of salutation that is still in use; 
and it was ratified by the Lord in His saying to the disciples when He sent 
them forth…"

AR 306



"…when a man is in the Lord, he is in peace with his neighbor, which is 
charity; in protection against the hells, which is spiritual security; and when 
he is peace with his neighbor, and in protection against the hells, he is in 
internal rest from evils and falsities. Since therefore all these are from the 
Lord, it may appear what is signified in general and in particular by ‘peace’…" 
Haggai 2:9 is cited along with many other passages.

AE 365 [34]



"In Haggai 2:9 ‘The house of God’ signifies the church; ‘the former house’ the 
church that was before the Lord’s coming; and ‘the latter house’ the church 
that was after His coming; ‘glory’ signifies the Divine truth that was in the one
and the other; and ‘the peace that He will give in that place,’ that is, in the 
church, means all these things that are signified by ‘peace’ …."

39

AE 400 [12]



"In Haggai 2:6, 7…the rebuilding of the temple in Jerusalem, and the ‘new 
temple’ there signifies a new church that is to be established by the Lord. This
is meant by ‘yet once, it is for a little while,’ and by ‘then I will make all 
nations quake that the choice of all nations may come; and I will fill this 
house with glory,’ ‘nations’ and ‘the choice of nations’ signifying all who are in
good…‘house’ signifying the church, and ‘glory’ Divine truth. This new church 
is further described by ‘the temple’…. The judgment in the spiritual world 
that will precede is described by ‘I make the heavens and the earth and the 
sea and the dry land to quake’ ‘the heavens and the earth’ meaning all 
interior things of the church, and ‘sea and dry land’ all the exterior things of 
it."

Derived Doctrine

1. "When (mercy) bursts forth, it bursts forth from the inmost…" (AC 5690)
2. "…[the faithful] know that life in the world… is only for some years, [and] is 

nothing compared with the life in heaven, which is eternal life; yea there is no
ratio between the time of man’s life in the world and the life in heaven… 
[think whether there can be] any ratio between a hundred thousand years 
and eternity, and you will find there is none." (AE 750)

3. "For a thousand years in Your sight are like yesterday when it is past, and like 

a watch in the night." (Psalm 90:4)

4. The Writings make many startling claims regarding the Lord, the Word, 
heaven and hell, angels, spirits, etc. But none are more startling than the 
teachings regarding the Last Judgment. People unfamiliar with the New 
Church are not taught that the Last Judgment occurred in 1757. Most of the 
world is expecting the Lord to come riding upon the clouds. They are looking 
for the "Great Rapture" when souls come out of graves and the ocean to meet 
the Lord. They are looking for the sun, moon, and stars to fall from the 
heavens. They are expecting definite (literal) physical manifestations of this 
Judgment.
The New Church teachings explain that the Last Judgment is not a physical 
worldly process but a spiritual one. The Writings reveal that the Lord fought 
with the hells and defeated them. Then He went into the heavens and 
completely reordered them. This revelation flies in the face of traditional 
Christian theology, which predicts an Apocalyptic doomsday.
When we read this portion of Haggai, we need to do so with focused spiritual 
views. The prophecies given through the prophets are about the Lord’s 
"mercy bursting forth" to build an "interior" New Church. It is to be a spiritual
church. It is to be "greater than the former" church. It will become the crown 
of all churches. The birth of this New Church requires a tremendous mental 
and spiritual "shaking-up." Old ways and old theology must be shaken to their
foundations and then the newly rebuilt temple will come into its place.

40

Putting It All Together

1. Wow! We have quite a bit of help this time in "putting it all together." There 
are more than 14 direct teachings to use. With an eye to the Lord and His 
guidance, let’s tie the general teachings together so that particulars will come
alive when we study and reflect on their specific meaning for our lives.

2. P&P starts us off with the teaching that "when the Lord comes into the world,
this church will be an interior church." A more interior church means changes
in thinking must occur that lead to deeper things. The Lord brings to people a
correct idea of Himself. The Writings teach that a person’s idea of God is like 
the first link upon which all other concepts depend. If the first link is weak or 
flawed, all of the other links will be weak and supported by falsity.

3. The Lord often said things like "you have heard it said of old…but I say unto 
you…" The Scribes and Pharisees placed more value in their own man-made 
laws than in the teachings of the Word, and they often substituted their laws 
in place of the Word’s teachings. Generation after generation contributed its 
man-made falsities. When a church departs from the truths of faith and the 
good of charity, that church’s people bring their confusion to the spiritual 
world. Picture millions of souls, carrying confusion and falsity with them 
when they enter the World of Spirits. A black cloud interposed itself between 
heaven and the church on earth, cutting off the vital light of heaven. This 
cloud of falsity carried the church into spiritual captivity and restricted the 
spontaneity of love to the Lord. Like the Babylonian desecration of the 
temple, the holy things of the church were stolen and used in blasphemous 
ways. The Lord’s Word was "chained," locked up and ignored. Hell felt that it 
was in control.

4. The timing of the Lord’s advent was crucial. Humanity stood at the doorway 
of spiritual death. Human prudence entered a deathly "tail-spin," and the 
former temple’s foundation lay in a shambles, a daily witness to futility. Then 
the Lord came to our rescue. He turned His zeal and truth to the rescue of the 
His people. He gathered together the good of truth and the truth of faith and 
did battle with the hells. For every trick they sought to use, He had an answer 
and a way to win. Line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little and there
a little He laid the foundation for His new church.

5. The "gold" and "silver" of this church ARE MINE, says the Lord. The good and 
truth of the New Church belong only to the Lord. He is willing to fill the minds
of His people with such wealth to use, but it is His.

6. This section implies that we must cooperate with the Lord in the shaking-up 
process, but we need a healthy view of this shake up. Reread the quote from 
the Derived Doctrine section: "When mercy bursts forth, it bursts forth from 
the inmost…" The Lord’s internal goal is to fill us with energy. He wants to 
motivate us to do His will. Shaking up humanity isn’t a bad idea when you 
think how often we get into a rut and resist change. To help us, He teaches us 
that "…when a [person] is in the Lord, he is in peace…" (AR 306)

41

7. The Last Judgment will take place "within the church and the person" and not

outside the church or outside of the person. The New Church will be 
instituted. It will be an internal church. The Lord commands us to work with 
him, telling us that He will be with us as we build the church. It will be a thing
of beauty. It will be more magnificent than the former church. Come and find 
peace within the walls of the New Jerusalem, says the Lord.

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:6-9.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. You might have wondered why there were two quotes about time in the 
Derived Doctrine section. The words "it is a little while" might have you 
thinking from the temporal side of the quote. Time in the eyes of the Lord is 
relative; 1,000 years to Him is like the blink of an eye. Compare this with our 
human perspective. What would be different in your daily life if you could 
think about time from the Lord’s perspective?

2. Have you tried to explain the Second Coming or the Last Judgment to 

someone? How did you do? If you awkwardly stumbled through it, did you 
decide to hide, or avoid, these teachings from others? What are some effective
ways to talk about this subject with people?

3. Look back at the passages from the Writings and see where each attaches to 

the literal sense.

4. What images come to you when you read about the new temple that "shall be 
greater than the former"? The Lord said that the new temple would be full? 
What’s going to fill the temple? People? Doctrines? Both?

5. Peace has quite a few definitions in the Passages from the Writings section. 

Which one touched you the most? Why?

HAGGAI 2:10-14

"On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of
the Lord came by Haggai the prophet, saying ‘Thus says the Lord of hosts: Now, ask the
priests concerning the law, saying, ‘If one carries holy meat in the fold of his garment, 
and with the edge he touches bread or stew, wine or oil, or any food, will it become 
holy?’ Then the priests answered and said, ‘No.’

Then Haggai answered and said, ‘So is this people, and so is this nation before Me,’ says
the Lord, ‘and so is every work of their hands; and what they offer there is unclean."

42

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"An external without an internal is of no use, and still less when the external 
has been falsified; so is it in the former church."

AC 3813 [3]



"[There was an ordinance in the Jewish church] …that Aaron, his sons, and 
they who sacrificed, and others who were clean, might eat the flesh of the 
sacrifices, and that this was holy… If therefore an unclean person ate of that 
flesh, he was to be cut off from his people…. That ‘flesh’ was called the ‘flesh 
of holiness’ (Jer. 11:15; Haggai 2:12), and the ‘flesh of the offering which was 
on the tables in the Lord’s kingdom…"

True Christian Religion (TCR) 717



"Feasts in the ancient churches and also in the primitive Christian church 
were feasts of charity, at which they strengthened each other to abide in the 
worship of the Lord with sincere hearts. When the children of Israel ate 
together of the sacrifices near the tabernacle, it signified nothing else than 
unanimity in the worship of Jehovah; therefore the flesh that they ate, being a
part of the sacrifice, was called holy (Jer. 11:15; Hag. 2: 12, and frequently 
elsewhere). Why not, then, the bread and wine and the paschal flesh at the 
supper of the Lord…."

AE 1082 [2-3]



"…‘bread and wine’ have the same signification as ‘flesh and blood,’ ‘bread’ 
meaning the Divine good, and ‘wine’ the Divine truth, therefore these were 
commanded in place of flesh and blood. Divine good from the Lord was 
signified also by the flesh of the sacrifices that Aaron, his sons, and those who
sacrificed, and others who were clean, might eat…" Haggai 2:12 is cited as an 
example.

AC 10130 [10-11]



"By…unclean things are signified various kinds of evils and the derivative 
falsities which are from hell, and which are communicated, transferred, and 
received; the several unclean things signify each some specific evil; for evils 
which are unclean render man so, because they infect his soul; moreover 
from evil spirits and genii there flow forth the evils of their heart, and 
according to the persuasions of evil they infect those who are present. This 

43

contagion is what is signified by the ‘touch’ of unclean things." Haggai 2:12-14
is cited among many other references.

AE 79



"As all things among the sons of Israel were representative and significative of
spiritual things, so also was touch; wherefore those who touched what was 
holy were sanctified, and those who touched what was unclean were 
polluted; for ‘touch’ signified communication and transference to another, 
and reception from another, as can be seen from the following passages in 
Moses…" Haggai 2:12, 13, 14 are cited.

Derived Doctrine

"On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius…"

 Twenty-four signifies "all things and [this number is] predicated of 

truths…"(AE 253 [6])

 Day signifies the state. Therefore, it appears that the Lord was examining the 

state of "all things" regarding the quality of their truths.

 Nine signifies all things conjoined in the complex: falsities and evils and good 

and truths. Note: nine is the result of multiplying three times three.

 By a "month" is signified "the end of the preceding and the beginning of the 

subsequent state, thus a new state…" (AC 3814)
 Two signifies all with respect to good. (AR 245)


"In the internal sense a ‘year’ does not signify a year, is evident from the fact 
that the angels, who are in the internal sense of the Word, cannot have an 
idea of any year… instead of a year they have an idea of what is full in respect 
to states of the church, and of what is eternal in respect to states of 
heaven…"(AC 2906 [10])

 Darius represents the desire to be "adored as a god." (AC 1326 [2])

"The word of the Lord came by Haggai the prophet, saying…"

 This phrase is repeated often in our study. Why? It appears meant to remind 
us that the things being said are not human words but the Lord’s words. The 
name "Haggai" means "festival" as if to remind us that at the core of what 
appears negative lies the spiritual sense, telling us news that will bring about 
a festive celebration of the New Church.

"Now, ask the priests concerning the law…"

 To ask signifies to investigate whether something is true, and to recognize 

divine truth. (AC 3385)

44

 The priests (from Aaron on to the Levites) represent the work of salvation in 

successive order. (AC 10017)

 The priesthood represents those who teach truth, and so lead to the good of 

life and to the Lord. (AC 10794)

Please Note the Two Questions Directed to the Priesthood.

Question One:

"If one carries meat in the fold of his garment, and with the edge he touches bread or 
stew, wine or oil, or any food, will it become holy?"

 To "carry" signifies to instruct. (AC 4749) What kind of instruction? External 

or internal? Memory-knowledges or internal spiritual knowledges?

 The NKJV says, "in the fold of his garment"; the RSV says "in the skirt of his 

garment"; the Jerusalem Bible says "in the fold of his gown."

 A garment represents the ultimate sense of the Word, or its sensuous natural 

sense. (AE 543 [14])

 A skirt signifies the outmost where a person’s natural being is. This is also 

called "borders" elsewhere. (AC 9917)

 The signification of "meat" is somewhat directed by the literal sense when it 
teaches us it was carried in the "fold of garment." Meat, or flesh, signifies all 
pleasures that contain living good, which both delights and nourishes a 
person.(AC 993-994)

 The edge, or border, signifies the (basic) lower most things of the church. The
edge or border is likened to memorized truths, knowledges from the Word, 
and rational truths. (AE 518 [17])

 A garment touching bread represents having communication with love. Stew 
or pottage signifies "a chaotic mass" of doctrinal things in a person "without 
any certain order." This "chaotic mass" needs to be "boiled down." (AC 3316)
 A garment touching wine signifies communication (again based on a garment
representing externals) with a faith of charity as it relates to the neighbor 
and the Lord.

 A garment touching oil signifies communicating the good of love or charity to 

the neighbor from the Lord. (AC 10, 261)

 A garment touching any food can be understood from the representations of 
food and garments. Food signifies things that are useful to the soul. (AC 
5293)Food and raiment signify that which nourishes the soul and everything 
external that clothes it. Things such as prosperity and respect are the 
external clothing of the soul. (AE 1193 [4])

45

"Then the priests answered and said ‘No.’" Why was the answer "no"?





"Holy" is the key word to focus on. Holiness is not an external thing. It reigns 
in the inmost heavens. (AC 9680) Holiness comes from within, from 
enlightenment while studying the Word. (AR 666)
In other words, the word "holy" does not describe a state achieved with an 
external or accidental "touching." Instead, it describes a state in which love, 
wisdom, and use are in harmony. (I can imagine an internal "holy" order 
being inspired by an external order of worship that is carefully and 
thoughtfully planned.)

Question Two

"If one who is unclean because of a dead body touches any of these, will it be unclean?"

 To be unclean signifies to be in a state of falsities. (AC 1666)


"Unclean" signifies appropriating things that are impure and profane derived 
from incorrect thinking. (AE 654 [56])
It also signifies a spiritual whoredom wherein adulteration of good and 
falsification of the Word take place. (AR 924)



 To seek the dead signifies a purposeful closing of the understanding in 

matters of faith. (AR 429) To touch the dead represents communicating with 
those states in which the will and understanding are not alive or vital (active)
in the process of regeneration.

"So the priests answered and said, ‘It shall be unclean.’"

 This question and answer are based on individual choices, not accidental 

events.

 Dead actions pollute. Adulterating the Lord’s Word provides the medium in 
which a contagious and dangerous spiritual infection can grow and threaten 
the innocence of one’s soul.

 This state of the mind and heart is "unclean" because it destroys the good 

states in the mind and heart. (AC 494)

Putting It All Together

1. "An external without an internal is of no use, and still less when the external 
has been falsified; so is it in the former church." (P&P) Everything that 
follows fills in this teaching. It appears that the Lord was explaining to the 
people that simply building the temple would not bring them any blessings or
states of "holiness." Putting up stone and mortar doesn’t touch anything holy. 
The existence of the temple guaranteed nothing. Therefore, the priests 
acknowledged that a priestly garment cannot bring holiness to anything 
simply by touching it.

46

2. Touching a dead body, on the other hand, was much more serious. The hearts 

and minds of the people must return to active concern with the "living" 
principles of the Lord and His Word. With this life, "shunning evil as sin" 
would become a meaningful deed instead of a memorized doctrinal phrase.
3. The priesthood responded to two questions with two different answers. One 
question was directed to the understanding, and one question was directed 
to the will. The Lord wants the understanding and the will to work together 
and support each other in the spiritual birth of the New Church.
"An external without an internal is of no use…" Quite a powerful statement to 
think about in our study as we build, each day, a temple that will be 
representative and worthy to host the Lord in His Holy Temple.

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:10-14.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. When you read this prophetical section for the first time, what parts of the 
internal sense shone through? When you look back now, what parts of the 
internal sense shine through? If you studied Haggai without the Writings, 
how would you look for the inner meaning? How might your goals be 
different if you were studying without the Writings? What are you goals as 
you study with the Writings?

2. Let each person in the group give a general summary of the internal sense of 

3.

this passage. Notice how different people will have slightly different 
summaries. Why do you think this happens?
In our study of the accidental touching of the garment, one of the derived 
doctrinal teachings mentioned the externals of the church being 
memorization, memory-knowledges, and the literal sense of the Word. The 
mere touching of them is not holy. Does that sound fair? We have our kids 
memorize recitations and give them little rewards. Hearing that these things 
are not holy in themselves might put a damper on that kind of work. What do 
you think about this external work? How can we bring such assignments into 
the sphere or state of holiness?

4. Does the quote "an external without an internal is of no use…" fit into 

something you have pondered (worried about or considered) regarding the 
work and life of the church? Explain.

5. What other questions would you like to contribute to this section?

47

HAGGAI 2:15-17

"And now, carefully consider from this day forward: from before stone was laid upon 
stone in the temple of the Lord – ‘since those days, when one came to a heap of twenty 
ephahs, there were but ten; when one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty baths 
from the press, there were but twenty. I struck you with blight and mildew and hail in 
all the labors of your hands; yet you did not turn to Me,’ says the Lord."

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"…where truth has been turned into falsity, in which there is hardly anything 
of the church…"

AC 2253 [5]



"As fifty is a number, it indeed appears to involve nothing beyond the number;
whereas in the internal sense what is full is everywhere meant by it, as in 
Haggai 2:16, that is, instead of fullness there was not much. ‘Fifty’ would not 
have been mentioned here in the Prophet unless it had been significative."

AC 4759 [2]



"In these passages [Haggai 2:16, 17 is cited among others.] ‘twenty’ denotes 
that which is unholy, unclean, and profane."

Derived Doctrine

"And now, carefully consider from this day forward…"



"And now" seems to remind the listener to put aside any thought of past 
merit. The listener is to think about the present ("now") with eternal life as 
the goal or end. A new beginning, a new spiritual end, is the Lord’s plan.

 The word "carefully" means to be alert, be attentive, take heed, and be 



circumspect.
"Circumspect" signifies to keep the Commandments, for they cover 
everything of life and worship. (AC 9282)

 Look at the word "attentive." "He who is wise, attends to the end." (AC 9407)

"…by ‘this day’ and by ‘to-day,’ there is signified perpetuity and eternity of 
state…" (See AC 2838, 3998, 4304, and 6165.)

 Each piece of this phrase seems to emphasize the need to reflect on life and 

its essentials.

48



"…from this day forward…" carries the message of change and vitality from 
this moment onward. The Lord commands us to break out of the spiritual rut 
and build on eternal values.

"…from before stone was laid upon stone in the temple of the Lord…"

 What is meant by "stone upon stone"? First, let’s look at these words as they 

were used (in the negative sense) by the Lord in the Gospels: Matthew 
24:2;Luke 19:44; Luke 21: 6. In these passages, the Lord told the disciples that 
the material temple they were so impressed with would be destroyed: "There
shall not be left here one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down." 
In Luke 19:44, while weeping over the city of Jerusalem, He used these words:
"…the days shall come upon thee…they shall not leave in thee one stone upon 
another…" In Luke 21:6, noting the rich coming into the temple and 
expressing adoration for the temple adorned with valuable stones and gifts, 
the Lord said: "…behold the days will come…where…there shall not be left 
one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down."
"That ‘there should not be left of the temple stone upon stone that should not 
be thrown down’ signifies the total destruction and vastation of the church 
(‘stone’ signifying the truth of the church)…." (AE 220 [9])
"That there shall not be left stone upon stone… [signifies] that the Lord was 
wholly denied among them, on which account also the temple was destroyed 
from its foundation." (AE 391 [4])
"That there shall not be left of the temple stone upon stone… means that 
every Divine truth, consequently everything of the church, is to perish; for the
end of the church, which is called the consummation of the age, is here 
treated of."(AE 630 [7])
"…that ‘there is not one stone upon another,’ is signified the end of this 
church, in that no truth whatever would then be left…" (AR 191 [3])
"…from before stone was laid upon stone…" Does this point us to the purity of 
truth as it came to the church from the Lord? Does it refer to a time prior to 
the church "shaping" "forming" or "hewing" the many stones of truth? The 
stones of the temple were put together into a building. But denial, rejection, 
and falsification caused not one stone to remain upon another stone. Truth 
belongs to the Lord; it does not spring from human creativity.











 This point seems important to consider as we look at the next portion of our 
lesson where "false measurements" are spoken of. Measurements correspond
to the quality of truth present with the church. Leviticus 19:35 warns against 
doing injustice to measurements. Keep fair scales. Deuteronomy 25:13-
16warns of the abomination of false weights. We are exhorted to keep honest 
scales. Amos 8:5 warns against falsifying the scales by deceit. Each warning 
bears on our attempts to manipulate the stones of truth. The Writings warn 
against "hatching" ideas and concepts to fit our ends. There are 
approximately 35 passages I could offer on the danger of "hatching falsities." 
Here are three to begin with: AC 991, 2385 [2], and 2831.

49

"Since those days, when one came to a heap of twenty ephahs, there were but ten…"

Since those days… Which days? The days prior to the falsification of truth?


 Coming to a heap… Heaps or cairns were constructed by the children of 

Israel, at the direction of the Lord, to signify a witness of conjunction in love. 
(AC 4192) In the opposite sense, heaps, cairns, and piles describe the 
accumulation of offending falsities that needed to be restrained. (AC 8286)
 Ephahs refer to a measure of dry things. One ephah is equivalent to one half 
of a bushel. Therefore, the heap of 20 ephahs would have been 10 bushels. 
The Writings teach us that measurements are mentioned in the Word when 
states are examined to give an estimate of good. (AC 8540)

 Twenty signifies all things of good and also all that is holy. (AC 10222)
 Ten has many representations; one of them refers to remains. (AC 858) Does 
the reduction in number signify the loss of something? A full state of twenty 
represents all that is good and all that is holy. "All" seems to be the important 
key to our question. Half of something is missing. Is the missing portion good 
or truth? Or is it an indication that the people were "half" of what they could 
or should have been?

"…when one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty baths from the press, there were 
but twenty."

 AE 695 [23] tells us that "wine-vat" represents the Word in respect to the 

goods of love.

 To draw water signifies a state of instruction. (AC 3057)
 To draw wine signifies a wish to investigate what belongs to faith. (AC 1071)
 To seek wine means to have an affection for truth. (AC 3069)


"Fifty baths from the press…" A bath is a liquid measurement. One bath 
equals five and one half gallons, so 50 baths would have been 275 gallons.

 Remember AC 2252 says that 50 represents "what is full."
 AR 651 teaches that a press (a wine press) signifies the truth of faith and also 
the investigation of works to see if the perpetrators of the works were in evil.
 AC 4759 [2] explains the meaning for finding "twenty" as that which is unholy,

unclean, and profane.

"I struck you with blight and mildew and hail in all the labors of your hands…"

"I" represents the Lord.


 Remember the story of Moses observing an Egyptian man "smiting" a 
Hebrew man? AC 6758 explains that the Egyptian striking the Hebrew 
signifies "alienated memory-knowledges endeavoring to destroy the truths of
the church." Could we see just the opposite meaning in this passage by 
applying this concept to the Lord? Could the "I struck you" here mean Divine 
Truth and Divine Good endeavoring to destroy the falsities (of all kinds) 
within the people of the church?

50

 A blight is a disease or injury that results in withering, cessation of growth, 

and death of parts (such as leaves or stems). In human terms, it means to ruin
or frustrate one’s efforts. Webster’s Dictionary also defines blight as 
"blasting."

 Mildew and blasting have correspondences:

o Mildew signifies falsity that seeks to destroy the life of the 

understanding of truth; in a word it is that which seeks to destroy the 
spiritual life of faith. (AC 83 65 [3])

o Blasting signifies falsities in the corporeal–sensuous part of man. (AE 

63 [20])





 AC 7553 teaches that hail signifies falsities destroying everything of the 
church within humanity. AR 714 describes hail as direful and atrocious 
falsities working toward the destruction of the church.
"…the labors of your hands", in the positive sense, signifies having ability, 
power, and confidence. (AC 878) The Lord "taking" these from the hands of 
the Jews indicates just the opposite. The Lord notes how falsity takes away 
the usefulness of these attributes from the hands.
It must be noted here that the Lord never tries to destroy the faith of an 
individual in the church. Nor does He want a blight, mildew, hail, or loss of 
confidence to occur. It is the falsification of the truths of faith that causes the 
onset of disorder. The Lord opens everyone’s interiors so the truth may be 
seen and known. It is the falsity within a person that becomes uncomfortable 
in the Lord’s presence. Evil can’t exist and thrive in the Lord’s presence, and 
therefore, evil wants to blame the Lord and ascribe all of its "problems" to 
Him. The words of the prophet Haggai are written to accommodate that 
appearance that occurs when evil is present, that it is the Lord striking man.

"…yet you did not turn to Me, says the Lord."

 To "turn" signifies reflection, reflection on the revelation given by the Lord. It 
means to diverge from prior thinking and movement away from the Lord. (AC
6836) In the negative sense, to "turn" means to follow things that pervert. (AC
4816)

 Within these words one can hear divine sorrow. The Lord seems to say, "How 

often would I have gathered you under My wings…but you would not."

Putting It All Together

1. "Where truth has been turned into falsity, in which there is hardly anything of
the church…" (P&P), there will be blight; there will be mildew; there will be 
hail; and the toiling of our hands will be useless. Blight, mildew, and hail will 
be within the church as long as people turn away from the Lord. Without the 
Sun of Heaven, the "blast" from hell will wither and bruise the life of the 
church, causing its leaves to die. The black mold of hell will cover and block 
the finest gifts the soul wants to give to the Lord.

51

2. The "call" to rebuild the temple of the Lord is more than a call for an aesthetic
building dedicated to "honoring" the Lord. It is a call to turn around and put 
first things first. It is a call to spontaneously love the Lord from within 
ourselves. It is a call to put the toil (ability, power, and confidence) of our 
hands into causes that have a divine end.
It would appear that this call is often forgotten or ignored. Think about how 
many times this theme appears in the messages of the Word. This is not 
useless repetition. It is a sign that we forget. It is a sign that we get distracted 
when we "hatch" our own ideas in place of the Lord’s. It explains why the 
church, when out of control, has no stone upon stone and leans on debris as a
foundation. It is a sign that we get comfortable with what we build with our 
own hands and think the Lord will comply with our expectations.
All of this may be read as negativity. Hell would like us to think it is. Hell 
would like us to blame any and all problems on Divine impatience. If hell’s 
message is believed, the spiritual temple never gets built because the blame 
game pulls up excuse after excuse, making spiritual reformation seem futile.
The message – the type of response we need to make – seems to hinge on 
changing the reaction described in the closing lines of this section: "…yet you 
did not turn to Me…" Instead, we need to emulate the responses Samuel and 
Isaiah made to the call of the Lord:
"And the Lord called Samuel." And Samuel said: "Speak, Lord, for Your servant
hears."(I Samuel 3:9)
"…I heard the voice of the Lord, saying: Whom shall I send, and who will go 
for Us? Then I said, Here am I! Send me." (Isaiah 6:8)

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:15-17.

Questions to Stimulate Reflection

1. Are we able to return in our minds to a state where we are close to the Lord, a
time before "stone was laid upon stone in the temple of the Lord"? What can 
we use as an example of this state? How about the innocence of our remains? 
We have nothing to do with them. Remains are saved and stored by the Lord 
in places known only to the Lord. Think about inviting or asking the Lord to 
use these remains in your life. How would you do that? In a way, He places 
our remains one on top of another. The Lord clears the foundation for their 
placement. Our positive nature, our positive prayer carries us to our 
Beginnings, our innocent states, because that is where the Lord is.

2. How well can you identify examples of blight, mildew, and hail in daily life? 

What are some good techniques for identifying them?

52

3. The blame game is a favorite tactic of hell. This tactic encourages a person to 
believe that it is the fault of parents, friends, or the church that he or she is so 
unprepared to build the spiritual temple. The Lord is a hard taskmaster, say 
the hellish spirits. He expects too much from us. To what degree do we 
participate in this exercise of futility? How can we escape it?

4. Could you understand the meaning of the "heap of ephahs" and the "fifty 
baths"? We used derived doctrine to search for their meaning. Discussion 
time used to talk their meaning over will be time well spent. Write out some 
of the applications you found.

5. Negativity is a pit-fall we all have to overcome. A preoccupation with 
negativity will close our ears to the Lord’s call. The Samuel and Isaiah 
response is so positive and refreshing. Don’t we really wish we could answer 
the same way to the Lord’s call? Although we don’t here His voice as directly 
as Samuel and Isaiah did, the Lord calls us. How? How can we hear and 
answer?

6. Are we as a church still struggling with "stones" that we have shaped and put 
in a certain order? Do we ever lean toward "hatching" concepts? This is a 
tough question. By discussing it we run the risk of entering negativism. Try to
avoid that. Instead, talk about ways to increase the church’s desire to bring 
about good changes based on doctrine.

HAGGAI 2:18-19

"‘Consider now from this day forward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, 
from the day that the foundation of the Lord’s temple was laid-consider it: Is the seed 
still in the barn? As yet the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have 
not yielded fruit. But from this day I will bless you.’"

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"…although there are truths in abundance in the Word."

AE 403 [9]



"In Haggai 2: 18, 19 … these words in the spiritual sense mean that there are 
goods and truths yet remaining; all goods and truths from the first to last are 
meant by ‘the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive-tree,’ ‘the vine’
meaning spiritual good and truth; ‘the fig-tree’ natural good and truth; ‘the 
pomegranate’ in general that which belongs to knowing and perceiving, and 
in particular, the knowledges and perceptions of good and truth; and ‘the 
olive-tree’ the perception of celestial good and truth; ‘the barn’ signifies 
where all these are, - either the church or the man in whom the church is, or 
the mind of man which is the subject."

53

AC 9552



"…[that] ‘pomegranates,’ signify ‘the memory-knowledges of good’…is evident
from …passages where these are mentioned… [Haggai 2:19 is cited] … ‘wheat,
barley, and the seed in the barn’ signify celestial things internal and external; 
‘the vine, the fig tree, and the pomegranate’ signify spiritual and natural 
things in their order, the last of which are the memory-knowledges that 
belong to the natural and sensuous man; wherefore ‘the pomegranate’ is 
mentioned last."

Derived Doctrine

"Consider now from this day forward…."

 We have covered this phrase before, but let’s review it in general. It is a call to
consider and reflect on your present state and then to look forward to the 
eternal goal of life and work toward spiritual uses.

"…the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month…"

 AE 253 [6] teaches that "‘twelve’ signifies all. AC 577 teaches that it is 

predicated of truths, "…likewise ‘twenty-four’ because that number is the 
double of the number twelve…"

 Days signify the successive states of regeneration. (AC 6)
 Nine signifies all things conjoined into one complex, goods and truths, or 

evils and falsities. (AE 401 [15])

 Months signify a state of life as to truth. (AR 925)

"…from the day that the foundation of the Lord’s temple was laid – consider it…"

 A foundation, or base, signifies full support by truth, or by means of the Word.

(AC 9643)

 The Lord’s temple signifies His Divine Human, which cannot be destroyed, for
when it seems to be destroyed, it rises again, glorified. (AC 7847 [4]; 10406 
[4]; AE 220.)
"Consider it" is used twice in this passage. Does it make sense that the Lord 
uses this phrase twice to speak to the will and understanding because these 
two complete each other?



"Is the seed still in the barn?"

 A barn signifies the church or the individual of the church where good and 



truth are. (AE 403 [9])
"Seed" signifies charity, and by "seed" angels understand charity, which is the 
essential of the faith of a church. (AC 1025 [3])

54

 The Lord’s question here is whether there is charity left in the good and truth
of the church. The Lord knows the answer. He asks the question so the church
can think about the answer. Are the essentials of charity still present within 
the church?

"As yet the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have not yielded fruit."

 The vine represents spiritual good and truth.
 The fig tree represents natural good and truth.
 The pomegranate represents that which belongs to knowing and perceiving.
 The olive tree represents the perception of celestial good and truth. (AE 403 

[9])

 These plants and trees "have not yielded fruit." Why? Could this fruitlessness 
be related to the blight, the mildew, or the hail? Spiritually, the seeds were in 
the barn, ready to be planted. There is an abundance of fruit in the Word. The 
problem lay within the church, which was in spiritual disarray. Neglect, 
inattentiveness, and coldness of heart kept the fruit from appearing on each 
of the trees.

"But from this day I will bless you."





"The Lord’s ‘blessing’ [them]…in the Word signifies fructification and 
multiplication because they proceed from [the Word]." (AC 43)
"But" in this state of barrenness, the Lord, as always, comes to the rescue 
when humanity reaches its last limit and is about to perish. It is the Lord’s 
way. He wants to be sure we know that our fruitfulness or multiplication is 
not the result of our own prudence and efforts.

Putting It All Together

1. P&P points to the great abundance (of seed) within the (barn) Word. What 

happened to the church that would have caused its people to forget or not see
these things? Was it the long captivity in Babylon? Did their faith get mixed 
with paganism? Was the barrenness of the trees due to doubts that arose 
when God allowed them to be humiliated before all nations?
Whatever symptom we point to, we need to look for what really caused the 
problem. The prophecy of Haggai begins by pointing to the following causes: 
their belief that the Messiah would come to exalt them to glory; their 
unwillingness to be taught by the Word; their reliance on themselves instead 
of on the Lord; their belief that their own needs were more important than 
the Lord’s needs.
In spite of all the church’s mistakes, the Lord’s providence worked toward the
promised rescue. He called on the remnant to come together to restore the 
beauty and dignity of worship. He blessed them with fruit on the trees of 
good and truth. He revitalized the temple – the barn – the seed – the trees – 

2.

55

and the foundation of all good and truth. The message of good triumphing 
over evil is sounded once again to the people of the church. "Consider now – 
consider it" is announced throughout the church for those who are willing to 
hear and who are willing to be part of this exciting rebuilding project.

Read and Reflect

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:18-19.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. Many of the questions for this section were asked in the section above. 

Review the summary and answer them.

2. The one question not mentioned above is this: The Minor Prophets herald the
restoration of the church over and over again. Why? For the sake of the Lord’s
first advent or the Lord’s second advent? Or is this theme there to calm us? Is 
it given to urge us to hold on in the face of the doubts hell places in our minds
about the future of the New Church organization?

HAGGAI 2:20-22

"And again the word of the Lord came to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the 
month, saying, ‘speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying: ‘I will shake heaven 
and earth, I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms; I will destroy the strength of the 
Gentile kingdoms. I will overthrow the chariots and those who ride in them; the horses 
and their riders shall come down. Every one by the sword of his brother."

Passages From the Writings

P&P



"All things of the former church will be destroyed."

AC 5321 [11]



"As most of the expressions in the Word have an opposite sense, so have 
‘chariots,’ and in this sense they signify doctrinal things of evil and falsity, and
also the memory-knowledges that confirm them, as in these passages…." 
Haggai 2:22 is cited.

56

AR 298



"That ‘a horse’ signifies the understanding of the Word…. A ‘chariot’ signifies 
doctrine from the Word, and a ‘horseman,’ one who is wise by means of it…. 
‘horses’ in the opposite sense… signify the understanding of the Word and of 
truth falsified by reasonings, and like wise destroyed; as also one’s own 
intelligence…" Haggai 2:22 is one of the verses cited.

AR 437



"…‘chariots’ signify doctrinals…‘horses’ signify the understanding of the 
Word; and ‘many horses,’ what is plenary…that ‘a chariot’ signifies doctrine, is
plain from these passages…." Haggai 2:22 is one of the many cited.

AR 694



"…‘a throne’ is mentioned in relation to the government of evil and falsity…" 
Haggai 2:22 is cited among other references.

AE 253 [7]



"As ‘throne,’ in reference to the Lord, signifies heaven in respect to all Divine 
truth, so in a contrary sense it signifies hell in respect to all falsity." Haggai 
2:22 is cited.

AE 355 [22]



"In Haggai 2:22 [it] is said of the destruction of falsity and evil, and not of the 
destruction of any nation or kingdom; for ‘nations’ signify evils, and 
‘kingdoms’ (like ‘peoples’) falsities. For this is prophetical, not historical. This 
makes clear what ‘horse’ and ‘rider,’ and ‘chariot and him that rideth in it’ 
signify, namely, that ‘horse and rider’ signify a perverted intellect and 
reasoning therefrom and ‘the chariot and him that rideth in it’ the doctrine of 
falsity or heresy, and those who are in it."

AE 988 [4]



"…a man may be induced to believe mere absurdities and falsities, provided 
they are set up as dogmas by those placed in authority and are confirmed by 
others who for various reasons prefer to live in blind obedience? …. For 
instance, that … nature is everything; … that there is little difference between 
man and beast, that they die … and do not live after death; that the Word is 
not holy…. ‘Thrones’ signify false doctrinals in other passages in the Word, as 
in …. Haggai 2: 22."

57

Appendix 1 to the Treatise on the White Horse



"That ‘a horse’ should signify the understanding of truth, and, in the opposite 
sense reasonings, which appear as if they were the result of understanding, in
confirmation of falsity, must needs appear strange at this day; I will therefore 
bring together still more passages from the Word, where the horse is 
mentioned. Thus in the following…" Haggai 2:22 is cited among others.

Derived Doctrine

"And again the word of the Lord came to Haggai…"

 This sentence seems like a reminder that the things about to be spoken by 
Haggai are not from a finite mind but are from the Mind of Infinity. These 
things are from the Lord and not some clerical council.

 Haggai’s name means "festive" so it seems to indicate a joyous message is 

about to be given.

"…on the twenty-fourth day of the month …"

 Twenty-four signifies "all things and [is] predicated of truths." (AE 253 [6])
 Day signifies the state of all things. (AC 23)
 Month signifies the beginning of a new state. (AC 3814)

"Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah…"

 Remember that the name Zerubbabel means "born in Babylon" or "seed of 
Babylon." If a new beginning, a new state, is to come to fruition, the Lord 
must speak to the "seed" of Babylon, and the "seed" of Babylon must be 
directed by the Lord.

 Governors signify generals in which and under which are particulars. (AC 



5290)
Judah represents doctrine from the Word that relates to the love of the Lord.
(AR 350 and AC 3880–3881)

 Do we see the reordering of the church and its ruling principles?

"I will shake heaven and earth…"

 To "shake" represents to divest oneself of unclean things. (AC 1748)
 To shake (out) dust signifies to get rid of what is damned lest it adhere. (AE 

365 [8])

 To shake heaven has many levels of meaning: the internal man (AC 16); the 
angels who constitute heaven (AC 9987); the spiritual and celestial things of 
the Lord’s kingdom both in the heavens and on earth. (AC 2162 [8])

 This statement seems to refer to the reordering of the heavens and the earth.

58

"I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms…"



In the Passages from the Writings section, we had a direct teaching about the 
"absurdities and falsities" that authority and blind obedience induced on the 
minds of the people. Those absurdities and falsities, and not physical 
kingdoms, are the "thrones" that will be overthrown by the Lord. (AE 988 [4])

 To overthrow signifies to utterly remove evils and falsities. (AC 9320)

"I will destroy the strength of the Gentile kingdoms…"

 The words "destroy" and "Lord" don’t fit well together until one refocuses on 
His work to remove evil, falsity, and hell from His church and His children. As 
evil and falsity flee from His presence, they cry out "we are being destroyed." 
Because the Lord "IS" and hell "is not," it can’t exist in His presence. His 
presence cleanses, vivifies, enlightens, and lifts His people out of the caves of 
ignorance and squalor.

 With the Gentiles, there is a subtle difference. Their worship has ignorance 

within it. They represent a variety of forms of worship. Within their worship, 
a "mutual" charity exists, but at the heart of their worship is "indiscriminate" 
charity. The Gentile state is quite appealing and strong in appearance. In the 
eyes of the Lord, that which is invisible must become visible. Mutual good is 
only as useful as is its view of the Divine Human.

"I will overthrow the chariots and those who ride in them…"

 To overthrow means to "utterly" remove evils and falsities. (AC 9320)
 Chariots represent doctrinals. (See Passages from the Writings for teachings).
But what kind of doctrinals? Our text clearly lets us know that this refers to 
human doctrines, not doctrines from the Lord.

 Those who ride on them will be thrown off. This too indicates that the rider 
has been directing doctrine and not the Lord. That kind of rider must be 
removed.

"…the horses and their riders shall come down…"

 Riders signify those who are subject to fallacies that will lead them to recede 

from the ways of the Lord. (AC 6401)

 Horses signify the understanding of the Word. (AR 437)
 Doesn’t it make sense that these things must come down so the Lord’s Church

can flourish?

59

"Every one by the sword of his brother."



In order to focus on the meaning of these words, we must turn to P&P for 
direction with the derived doctrine. P&P states that: "All things of the church 
will be destroyed."

 A sword signifies a person’s insane persuasions by which he or she wishes, or

tries, to enter the mysteries of faith. But such a person will fail and will 
therefore be borne away by corporeal and earthly things. (AC 309)

 A sword signifies divine truths in the externals that were turned this way or 
that way to please the natural person. (Doctrine of Sacred Scriptures 97)

 A sword signifies vastations. (AC 1460 [2])
 A sword in the positive sense signifies divine truth combating from divine 

good. (AC 288-9)

 A brother signifies the union of charity and faith. (AC 367)
 When Cain slew Abel, this signified that a "separated faith" extinguishes its 

brother "charity." (AC 366)

 A brother delivering a brother to death signifies that falsity shall destroy 

good.(AE 315 [21])

Putting It All Together

1. The newness of the Lord’s Church cannot be built with old materials. The old 
church was the creation of councils, tradition, man-made rules, turning truth 
this way and that way to please the external man. In the process, the brother 
faith tried to rule over charity. True order is for charity to lead and guide 
faith. AC 365 has a wonderful explanation of this truth.

2. For many years (we have no idea how long), falsity lived in the minds of 

people, and they carried it with them into the world of spirits. This falsity 
began to trouble the heavens. The Lord needed to "shake" heaven and earth. 
He had to "utterly" shake, remove, cleanse, and vivify the church. The 
absurdities and falsities of the church wanted to block the light of heaven. 
P&P’s statement that "All things of the former church will be destroyed" 
makes sense when we think about the Lord’s work to rebuild His Temple: He 
announces that there will be a new foundation, new materials, new light, and 
a new charity leading the faith, a brotherhood that conjoins and protects all 
of the members within the family of the New Jerusalem.

Read and Reflect

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:20-22.

60

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. Change and improvement are not always easy. When we get comfortable with
a life style and the Lord comes along and asks us to change, it’s tough to 
overcome the old way. It feels like the life within us is being "killed" or 
destroyed. Have you found a way to give in to the Lord’s "remodeling plans" 
for your spiritual life?

2. The shaking process is described as a method to keep evil and falsity from 
adhering to us. Looking back over your life, can you recall some "shaking" 
experiences that hurt at the time but significantly helped and shaped your 
life?

3. As a New Christian Church organization, we have different doctrinal ideas 
and customs than the former Christian church. But there are some "old" 
materials that try to push their way into the spiritual life of the church. Can 
you name some of them? Begin by thinking of the following "old" ideas. 
"Sermons and doctrinal classes need to dwell more on "happier" topics." "Sin, 
evil, and regeneration are depressing and upsetting themes." "We are losing 
our young people. We are driving them out of the church with our coldness 
and rigidity." "I come to church to feel better about myself." What are some 
other "old" ideas?
In my mind, I keep hearing the theme of Haggai: "Consider now" … "Consider 
your ways" "Consider from the day that the Lord’s foundation was laid" urges
us to think about what the Lord wants for us. My impression is that we run 
away from this kind of reflection. How do you see it?

4.

HAGGAI 2:23

"‘In that day,’ says the Lord of hosts, ‘I will take you, Zerubbabel My servant, the son of 
Shealtiel,’ says the Lord, ‘and will make you like a signet ring; for I have chosen you,’ 
says the Lord of hosts.’"

Passages From The Writings

P&P



"The church will be among others."

Derived Doctrine

"In that day…" signifies in that "state."

 What state? A state of having the dust of falsity shaken off of us? A state of 
being called to consider the reality of the Lord? A state of being vastated 

61

(emptied out)? A state of recognizing that we need to respond to the new 
building process?

"I will take you, Zerubbabel My servant…"

 The likely answer to our questions about the state this "day" represents may 

be found in the next phrase: "I will take you…"

 Again, Zerubbabel’s name means "born in Babylon" or "seed of Babylon."
 The great spiritual reclamation project, the spiritual ecological work, begins 





for the uplifting of the New Church.
"My servant" carries a powerful message. A servant signifies the external 
serving the internal person. (AC 1468)
Servant also signifies the external obeying the rational (AC 1713) and good 
appearing to be in supremacy. (AC 3601)

 There are other representations for the word "servant," but these few should 

help us as we consider the inner meaning of servant.

"[I] will make you like a signet ring…"

 The word "signet" also means "sign or token."
 A signet represents a token of consent, confirmation, and testification. (AC 

4874)

 A ring signifies a conjunction or holding of things together. (AC 9657)
 The ring given to the prodigal son by his father represented or signified the 
confirmation of the power given to the son in the household. (AC 5317)
"I will make you a signet ring…" carries with it the message of the special 
qualities and design of the ring. The Lord makes the signet ring. This one is
not made by us, and I picture it as unique and special for each child of the 
Lord’s New Church.



"…says the Lord of hosts."

 AC 2 reminds us that the Word of the Lord must "contain within it such things
as belong to heaven, to the church, and to religious belief, and that unless it 
did so it could not be called the Lord’s Word, nor could it be said to have any 
life in it."

Putting It All Together

1. The closing summation of this passage has within it a preamble to the 

greatest "Covenant" made by the Lord. The covenant has nothing to do with 
the historical rebuilding of Israel’s temple. Instead, it is a covenant that will 
have an effect to eternity. Like the many announcements in the Old Testament
of the Lord’s first advent, the books of the prophets are reminders of the 
greatest promise made in Revelation. There will be a crown of all churches, 

62

and it shall live forever and ever. This prophecy uses the symbol of a signet 
ring. What could the ring represent?

2. The ring, more specifically a signet ring, is given as a confirmation and 

testification that the Holy City New Jerusalem will arise out of the rubble of 
all of the former churches. When it comes about, all will be welcomed into its 
city. Haggai’s prophecy emphasizes the inclusiveness of this church. No tribe 
or nation has exclusive rights to it. This church has the salvation of all of the 
Lord’s people at heart. The Word of the Lord is not for a specific race or time. 
So the wording of the P&P explanation of this last verse is quite significant 
when we reflect on the mission of the New Jerusalem. "The church will be 
among others." Such a message runs counter to the evangelical teachings held
by many in the Christian world. Quoting the literal sense of the Word, they 
announce that only those who are "born again" will enter through the gates of
salvation.
What view do you have on this important issue?

Read and Review

Read the selection from P&P.

Read Haggai 2:23.

Questions To Stimulate Reflection

1. The Lord uses the "seed of Babylon" as a beginning point. He calls on the 
governor. He uses a man named Haggai – the festive – to do the work of 
restoration. Wouldn’t it have been faster if He had sent Haggai first to a 
person who had a cleaner slate? Couldn’t there have been some mighty 
warrior raised up? Can you pull together the spiritual how and why of the 
Lord’s ways of restoring the temple?

2. Have you ever wondered why you were born into the New Church and not 

some other faith? If you converted to the New Church, have you ever looked 
back to see the trail of events that led you to that choice? Do you have a 
feeling of being called to be part of the building up of the New Church?
3. The signet ring is a wonderful symbol. I can’t recall seeing it used in any 

pictures or stained glass windows. Do you think it would be useful to make it 
a part of the story we tell others about mission of the New Church? If you like 
to draw, think about designing a picture of this ring.

4. Have you discussed the inclusiveness of the New Church concepts with a 

fundamentalist Christian? If you did, were you able to hold your own when he
or she quoted passages from Paul and the literal sense of the Word? How do 
the teachings about inclusiveness apply to your daily life? How might you find
them informing your perspective on various issues?

63

5. How much of a difference have you noted between the spiritual sense and the
historical sense of Haggai? How does the literal story seem to highlight or 
cloak the spiritual sense?
It is hoped that from this study you now feel a deeper affinity with this book 
of prophecy called Haggai. Do you?

6.

64

Epilogue: A Summary of the Book of Haggai

CHAPTER ONE

When the Lord makes His advent, what is His purpose for coming into the hearts and
minds of people? Is it to exalt a race, a tribe, a church, or a religious denomination?

To turn His Advent into personal grandiosity is to make a serious spiritual mistake. 
The people within the church did this, and the results were devastating. They lost 
the Word. They lost sight of its meaning, and they could not be taught by the Word.

The literal sense describes their disorder, saying they were a church that sowed 
much but brought in little. It was a church that ate but didn’t have enough to satisfy 
its needs. They drank but didn’t have their thirst assuaged. They had clothing that 
gave no warmth. They earned wages but lost the wages because their money 
pouches had holes in them.

Instead of focusing on the mirror truths of the Lord, they focused on the distorted 
mirror of narcissism. In that mirror of self-love, they worshipped themselves and 
could not see love of the Lord and the neighbor. Love of self and love of the world 
became ruling principles. Disorder has its effects. Look at the history of the children 
of Israel. Israel’s national security was always under some threat by the nations 
around her. They suffered through assault after assault.

The spiritual sense explains how the sacking and captivity of Israel related to their 
weak spiritual state. Such things happen in the external to reflect the condition of 
the internal. After they were released from Babylonian captivity, the Israelites put off
seeking things that would help them achieve their spiritual freedom. They fixed up 
and paneled the walls of their house before caring for the Lord’s house. They did not 
do "first things first." They delayed following the order of heaven. So the prophet 
Haggai called them to "consider" their ways. Ignoring the Lord while caring for self 
deprives the soul of its heavenly sustenance; this was the message the Lord spoke 
through His prophet Haggai.

CHAPTER TWO

The Lord reminded His people that the church, when first instituted, was full of 
truths. The present church was empty and devastated. In spite of its present 
condition, the Lord told them He would purify the church. He told the church that He
would come into the world to establish an internal foundation. The Lord shared His 
message this way: "An external without an internal is of no use…"

65

To illustrate the potential within the Word, the Lord asked whether any seed 
remained in the barn, a great thought-provoking question. Then He announced to 
the Israelites that in spite of the blight (the blast), the mildew, and the hail, good 
would come from such spiritual tremors. The clinging falsities that had adhered to 
the church would be loosened and shaken off. The Lord promised to expose their 
falsification of the Word. The twisting and turning of the meaning of the Word would
be thrown off. The former falsity of the horse and its rider would be thrown off, 
checked, and destroyed.

The Lord’s New Church is for everyone. Those who love truth for truth’s sake, those 
who love the Lord and the neighbor, and those who want the Lord to lead them will 
be like a signet ring. There will be a spontaneous consent from those in the church to
be led. There will be a conjunction and healing within the heart. Externals and 
internals will wed, and the ring of commitment, or the conjugial principle, will be 
blessed and enriched.

A beautiful ring will be part of the covenant. The ring’s beauty is special because the 
design, and the choice of materials, will reflect the truths of the Lord. He, and no one 
else, makes the ring.

The Lord’s trees, the vine, the fig, the pomegranate, and the olive tree, would once 
again bear fruit. The blight, the mildew, the hail, and the drought ended. The 
blossoms and fruit on the trees reminded the exiles of the presence of the Lord and 
the potential of the reconstruction of the temple. Our study helps remind us that the 
spiritual fulfillment of the descent of the Holy City the New Jerusalem has happened 
and the effects of the Lord’s Covenant are beginning to reach out throughout the 
world. A spiritual healing is underway. How can we be sure of this? Recall, the Lord’s
comforting words in the book of Revelation:

"In the middle of its street, and on either side of the river, was a tree of life, which 
bore twelve fruits, each tree yielding its fruit every month. The leaves of the tree 
were for the healing of the nations." Revelation 22:2

66

