---
BIBLE STUDY NOTES
by Anita S. Dole

---
Table of Contents
Introductory Note to Teachers
Bibliographic Data
About this Edition
Editor's Note from 2001 Edition
About the Author

---
Table of Contents:

The Creation — A General View (Genesis 1; 2:1-3)
The Creation — The First Four Days (Genesis 1:1-19)
The Creation — The Fifth and Sixth Days (Genesis 1:20-31)
The Creation — The Seventh Day (Genesis 2:1-7)
The Garden of Eden (Genesis 2:8-25)
A Wife for Adam (Genesis 2:8-25)
The Serpent (Genesis 3)
Cain and Abel (Genesis 4:1-15)
Noah Builds an Ark (Genesis 6)
The End of the Flood (Genesis 8)
The Rainbow (Genesis 9:1-17)
The Tower of Babel (Genesis 11:1-9)
The Call of Abram (Genesis 11:27-32; 12:1-10)
Abram and Lot (Genesis 13:1-13, 14:1-16)
Abraham and Ishmael (Genesis 16)
Abraham and The Angels (Genesis 18)
The Birth of Isaac (Genesis 21:1-21)
The Sacrifice of Isaac (Genesis 22:1-14)
Isaac and Rebekah (Genesis 24)
Isaac and Abimelech (Genesis 26:1-33)
Jacob and Esau (Genesis 25:19-34; 27)
Jacob's Dream (Genesis 28)
Jacob's Wives and Sons (Genesis 29; 35:23-26)
Jacob's Return (Genesis 35)
Joseph and His Brothers (Genesis 37)
Joseph in Prison (Genesis 39; 40)
Joseph Ruler of Egypt (Genesis 41)
Joseph's Sons (Genesis 48; 50:22-26)
The Birth of Moses (Exodus 1; 2:1-10) 
The Burning Bush (Exodus 3) 
The Ten Plagues (Exodus 7; 8; 9; 10) 
The Passover (Exodus 12) 
Crossing the Red Sea (Exodus 13:17-22; 14) 
Marah and Elim (Exodus 15) 
Quails and Manna (Exodus 16) 
At Rephidim (Exodus 17) 
The Ten Commandments (Exodus 19:16-25; 20:1-21) 
The Ark of the Covenant (Exodus 25:1-22) 
The Tabernacle (Exodus 26; 27) 
The Golden Calf (Exodus 32:1-24) 
Nadab and Abihu (Leviticus 10) 
The Twelve Spies (Numbers 13; 14) 
Korah, Dathan, and Abiram (Numbers 16) 
Aaron's Rod (Numbers 17) 
Balaam (Numbers 22; 23; 24) 
The Call of Joshua (Joshua 1) 
Crossing the Jordan (Joshua 3; 4) 
At Gilgal (Joshua 5) 
The Taking of Jericho (Joshua 6) 
The Capture of Ai (Joshua 7; 8) 
The Gibeonites (Joshua 9) 
The Division of the Land (Joshua 18:1-10) 
Deborah and Barak (Judges 4) 
The Story of Gideon (Judges 6;7) 
Jephthah (Judges 11) 
Samson (Judges 14) 
The Birth of Samuel (1 Samuel 1; 2:1-11) 
The Lord Calls Samuel (1 Samuel 3) 
The Capture and Return of the Ark (1 Samuel 4:1-11; 5; 6:1-16) 
Asking for a King (1 Samuel 8) 
The Choosing of Saul (1 Samuel 9; 10) 
Saul's Impatience (1 Samuel 13) 
Saul and Jonathan (1 Samuel 14:1-46) 
Saul Spares Agag (1 Samuel 15) 
The Anointing of David (1 Samuel 16) 
David and Goliath (1 Samuel 17) 
The Ark Brought to Jerusalem (2 Samuel 6) 
David and Nathan the Prophet (2 Samuel 12:1-25) 
The Wisdom of Solomon (1 Kings 3) 
Building the Temple (1 Kings 6) 
The Glory of Solomon (1 Kings 9; 10) 
Solomon's Last Years (1 Kings 11:1-13, 26-43) 
Elijah and Ahab (1 Kings 17; 18) 
Elijah at Horeb (1 Kings 19) 
Elijah's Mantle (2 Kings 2) 
Elisha and Naaman (2 Kings 5) 
The Reign of Asa (1 Kings 15:9-24) 
Hezekiah and Isaiah (2 Kings 20) 
King Josiah (2 Kings 22) 
Zedekiah and Jeremiah (2 Kings 24; 25:1-12; Jeremiah 21) 
The Book of Psalms (2 Samuel 23:1-2; Psalm 1) 
The Book of Psalms (Psalm 19) 
Trust in the Lord (Psalm 91) 
A Psalm about the Word (Psalm 119) 
The Major Prophets (Isaiah 6) 
The Major Prophets (Jeremiah 1) 
Ezekiel's Vision (Ezekiel 1) 
Ezekiel's Vision of the Waters (Ezekiel 47:1-12) 
Nebuchadnezzar's Dream (Daniel 2) 
The Fiery Furnace (Daniel 3) 
Belshazzar's Feast (Daniel 5) 
Daniel in the Lion's Den (Daniel 6) 
The Minor Prophets (Joel 3:9-21) 
The Prophet Amos (Amos 8) 
Jonah and the Great Fish (Jonah 1; 2) 
Jonah and the Gourd (Jonah 3; 4) 
The Prophet Micah (Micah 6) 
Rebuilding the Temple (Haggai 1) 
Prophets of the Restoration (Zechariah 4) 
Prophecies of the Advent (Malachi 3; 4) 
The Lord Comes into the World (Matthew 1:18-25; 2:13-23) 
The Visit of the Wise Men (Matthew 2) 
The Lord's Baptism (Matthew 3) 
The Lord's Temptations (Matthew 4:1-11) 
The First Disciples (Matthew 4:12-25) 
The Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5; 6; 7) 
The Lord's Ministry (Matthew 8) 
Parables of the Kingdom of Heaven (Matthew 13) 
The Transfiguration (Matthew 17:1-13) 
Palm Sunday (Matthew 21:1-27) 
The Lord's Last Days on Earth (Matthew 26; 27) 
Easter (Matthew 28) 
The Lord's Baptism (Mark 1) 
New Wine (Mark 2) 
The Twelve Apostles (Mark 3) 
Parables (Mark 4) 
Miracles (Mark 5) 
The Loaves and Fishes (Mark 6) 
Little Children (Mark 10) 
Palm Sunday (Mark 11) 
The Holy Supper (Mark 14) 
The Crucifixion (Mark 15) 
The Easter Lesson (Mark 16) 
The Birth of John the Baptist (Luke 1) 
The Birth of the Lord (Luke 2:1-20) 
The Widow of Nain (Luke 7:1-30) 
The Apostles Are Sent Out (Luke 9:1-36) 
The Good Samaritan (Luke 10:25-42) 
The Scribes and Pharisees (Luke 11) 
The Great Supper (Luke 14) 
The Prodigal Son (Luke 15) 
The Unjust Steward (Luke 16) 
Palm Sunday (Luke 19) 
Easter (Luke 24:1-12) 
The Walk to Emmaus (Luke 24:13-53) 
The Word Made Flesh (John 1) 
The Miracle at Cana (John 2:1-11) 
The Lord and Nicodemus (John 3:1-21) 
The Lord at Jacob's Well (John 4:1-42) 
The Pool of Bethesda (John 5:1-16) 
The Man Born Blind (John 9) 
The Good Shepherd (John 10) 
The Raising of Lazarus (John 11:1-46) 
Palm Sunday (John 12:12-50) 
The Parable of the Vine (John 15) 
The Resurrection (John 20) 
John's Vision (Revelation 1) 
The Messages to the Churches (Revelation 2; 3)
John's Vision of the Throne (Revelation 4)
The Sealed Book (Revelation 5)
The Four Horsemen (Revelation 6)
The Seventh Seal (Revelation 8; 9)
The Woman and the Dragon (Revelation 12)
The Beast Overcome (Revelation 13; 19:11-21) 
The Judgment and the Holy City (Revelation 20:11-15; 21:1-7)
The Holy City (Revelation 21:9-27)
The Holy City (Revelation 21; 22)
The End of John's Vision (Revelation 22:8-21)

---
Introductory Note to Teachers (by Anita S. Dole)

For anyone who loves the church there is no more rewarding experience than teaching a Sunday School class. Like every other worthwhile undertaking it has its problems, its difficulties, and its disappointments; it demands time, effort, and self-sacrifice. But the teacher feels that he is performing a use second only to that of the minister. He is constantly inspired and stimulated by the responsibility of guiding young, open minds into an understanding of spiritual things. His own grasp of the Word and the teachings of the church grows and deepens from Sunday to Sunday. And his understanding of individuals other than himself, as it develops through this experience, enables him to be more and more helpful to friends and acquaintances as well as to his pupils. All these things take time; so let no one feel discouraged if he fails to find immediate enjoyment and success in the work. Be patient, and count the failures as stepping stones.

The Teacher's Equipment:

Every Sunday School teacher should have a teacher's Bible.

Cross-references and varying translations in the center column, a concordance at the back, tables and historical summaries, Bible dictionary, and maps are invaluable. There are many collateral works which have been produced for the special purpose of aiding teachers and students. Your minister can make these available to you and advise you as to their use. Information concerning special visual aids may be obtained from the Sunday School Association's committee on visual aids.

Preparing the Lesson:

The teacher should realize that more preparation is necessary than merely reading through the lesson notes for his class. There is no substitute for personal study and thought. The first essential is to study the Bible story. In this, too, it is not enough for the teacher to read the lesson assignment for the day, for this is always somewhat curtailed and leaves many details and connections to be filled in by more extended reading. If chapters have been omitted, the teacher should be familiar with at least their general content and should know as much as possible of the history and relationships of the characters involved in the lesson and the location of the places mentioned. His own interest in the lesson will be deepened by looking up the cross-references, and often he will find points in which his class also will be interested. The meanings of the Hebrew names (found in a concordance) are significant, whether they are of persons or of places.

Next, the pupils' notes for all ages should be read, as this course is planned in such a way that both the understanding of the lesson and the knowledge of its background build up progressively from Beginner to Adult notes. [In this publication of these lesson materials, the notes for the Beginner and Primary children have been combined.] 

If possible, the teacher's personal study should be supplemented by a teachers' meeting under the supervision of the minister, who can supply a great deal of helpful information and also make suggestions as to the presentation of the lesson and give advice concerning specific class problems as they appear. Also, the exchange of ideas among the teachers at a weekly meeting has great educative value.

Finally, the teacher should think about the lesson in its relation to his own particular class and, with the help of the teachers' notes, decide just how he is going to present it. In this try to think always of what will be most valuable and helpful to your pupils rather than of what has proved most interesting and stimulating to yourself. Remember that their background and their states are quite different from yours. Pray for help in presenting the lesson. Our failures come most often either from lack of proper preparation, or from obtruding our own ideas between the Word and the children and trying to impress them with ourselves rather than with the lesson. Remember that the power for good is not in yourself but in the Word.

Subject Matter:

The primary task of the church is "to keep the Divine among men." And we know that our access to the Divine is through the Word. Therefore the first goal of our Sunday Schools should be to acquaint the pupils with the letter of the Word. There is no other agency except the Sunday School which can be counted on to perform this task. The schools do not do it, and even in the New Church few homes attempt it in any systematic way. The child is taught morals and certain common ethical values by many of his contacts outside of the church, but only in Sunday School can we be sure he will be taught to build his character on the Word of God. The child whose experience does not include systematic instruction in the letter of the Word is cheated of his birthright. So the Word is our primary subject matter. Our supplementary material is found in the writings of the Second Coming which enable us to understand the Word. All our other objectives may be carried out in connection with this study. The stories of the Word are not mere fairy tales or fables or ancient history: they are messages from the Lord to us — our life textbook. As teachers we must feel their power and see their applications, and always try to inspire in the children the love of hearing and studying the Word.

Suggested Goals for the Sunday School:

1. Knowledge of the letter of the Word.
2. Introductory knowledge of the spiritual sense of the Word.
3. A working knowledge of New Church doctrines.
4. A desire for worship and an understanding of its forms.
5. Instruction in the Christian way of life in emotion, thought, and conduct.

This outline does not imply that there should be separate lessons in doctrine, in worship, and in Christian living, but that these objectives should all be in the teacher's mind as he prepares and teaches the lesson, so that the particular Bible story being taught will come to the children with present meaning and urgency, and so that no opportunity will be wasted of furthering the spiritual development of the children.

To achieve these goals the teacher of each age group should have in mind specific things under each heading which he may hope to impart to the children of his class before they pass on to the next age group. A further definition of these requires that we consider each age group in turn.

The Age Groups:

Traditionally the children in our Sunday Schools are divided into five age groups: Beginner (ages 3, 4, and 5), Primary (ages 6, 7, and 8), Junior (ages 9, 10, and 11), Intermediate (ages 12, 13, and 14), and Senior (ages 15, 16, and 17). At the age of eighteen the young person should be ready for the Adult class. [NCBS Editor's note: The Beginner group notes were already combined with the Primary ones in the 2001 edition. We have changed the group names in this new online version; they are now as follows: Young children, Older children, Young teens, Older teens, Adults.]

Children vary, of course, in their individual mental and emotional development at any given age, and the occasional slow or advanced child in a group presents a special problem, and may need to be placed temporarily with another age group. But in general there are certain characteristics of each age group which are fairly constant.

Beginner: Beginners are still in the infant states of trust and love, and are peculiarly sensitive to the atmosphere of the class. We know that some of the deepest and most lasting impressions are made on children at this age — without the child's knowing how or why. Even though the children may not at the time be able to recall — or at least to express — any of the specific facts we give them, we know that these facts together with the states in which they were received are stored up in the children's minds as "remains" on which heavenly attitudes are built. The teacher's own attitude toward the Lord, the Word, and the Church will largely determine the kind of impression which the Sunday School makes on little children. We should never feel that these little ones are in our care merely to be "looked after" and amused. If we do, the church will be to them just another place where they may play. Instead, their first contacts with the church should give them a sense of wonder and reverence. They should be happy, but happy in a special way. We cannot teach this by words, but only by the example of our own feeling.

So the specific goals for this group are simple and general:

1. The Word. Although each lesson should be taught as it comes, special pains should be taken to impress upon the children the Creation story, the story of the Garden of Eden, the story of the flood, stories of Bible children, and the Christmas, Palm Sunday, and Easter stories.

2. Spiritual Sense. Nothing specific should be given at this age level, but if the teacher has the correspondence in mind in discussing things in nature, what he says will inevitably be put in such a way as to prepare for later instruction. For example, the plants and animals of the Bible will be emphasized.

3. Doctrine. Jesus is our heavenly Father. The world was made by Him. The Bible is His book. He wants us to be good. He takes care of us.

4. Worship. The church is the Lord's house. Teach the Lord's Prayer and other simple Bible verses. Teach the simpler Sunday School hymns. Develop a reverent feeling about the Sunday School service.

5. Christian Living. We should be kind and loving. We should learn what is right and good. We should obey our parents.

[Young children] Primary: Primary children retain much of the same responsiveness to atmosphere, but they are beginning to acquire in school tools of learning, and they need to be allowed to exercise their new tools and abilities and to be kept busy. This does not mean just handwork. Their minds need to be kept busy, too. They like to be able to answer questions, and they like to memorize. They can stand any amount of repetition of the lesson — in fact that is the way in which it is impressed upon them. Pictures and other visual aids should never be chosen just to give the children something to do, but always as aids to the lesson; for at this age children are quick to recognize discrepancies between a picture and what the teacher is telling them, and if pictures and handwork make a false impression, it is hard to correct it later. This is one reason why Bible stories should never be embroidered by the teacher's imagination. Let the child's own imagination do the embroidering, if it will, but do not encourage it.

The specific goals for this group may be:

1. The Word. The emphasis should be on the literal story, with the attempt to fix important names in the memory. Read as much as possible of the story from the Word itself. Teach the Blessings and other verses.

2. Spiritual Sense. Suggest the correspondence of the sun to the Lord and of its heat and light to His love and wisdom. Bring this out a little at a time by speaking of the effects of the sun in the world and of the Lord in our souls.

3. Doctrine. The Lord is always with us and knows our thoughts. He teaches us through His Word. Talk about heaven and the life that leads to it.

4. Worship. Reverence for the Lord's house. Care of the Word. Why the Word is on the altar. The Sunday School service, with participation in its conduct.

5. Christian Living. 
(a) Moral principles: honesty, obedience, industry, trustworthiness. 
(b) Where our good and bad thoughts come from, and their power. 
(c) What unselfishness is, with practical guidance in unselfish conduct.

[Older children] Junior: Children of this age are hungry for factual information. They are beginning to be somewhat self-assertive, and if their minds are not fed, and fed rather fast, they become restless and look about for some other occupation. They are interested in maps and in pictures of places and people — real pictures, not "baby work." The teacher should be particularly careful not to "talk down" to them, but to respect their growing mental ability. Their questions are usually intensely practical and the teacher needs to study as much as possible of the geographic and cultural background of the lesson. Frequent reviews help to hold the interest of the class, and this is also an excellent age at which to teach the children how to look up verses in the Bible and how to use Bible helps.

1. The Word. The literal story in detail, with emphasis on geography and attention to background, especially the past history and the relationships of the people in the story. Learn the Commandments and several Psalms.

2. Spiritual Sense. Some simple correspondences, such as high and low, heat and light, animal, vegetable, and mineral, gold, silver, and brass, water, stone, bread and wine, the seed-plant series. Quite often the general inner meaning of the story can be suggested. Watch the notes for such opportunities.

3. Doctrine. The doctrine of use. The meaning of baptism. The origin of evil. The Lord's part and ours in our getting to heaven.

4. Worship. The parts of the church building. The service. Why we come to church.

5. Christian Living. Application of religious principles to the children's everyday problems. How to live together.

[Young teens] Intermediate: This is in some ways the most difficult age to teach with any degree of satisfaction. It is indeed an "in-between" age. The pupils are still really children, and yet they like to think of themselves as "grown-up." They should be taken very seriously from Sunday to Sunday, but the teacher himself should not worry too much about any untoward attitudes they may express, for they experiment and change constantly. They need mental challenge, teaching which makes them think in new terms and new ways, the feeling that the teacher believes them capable of understanding rather deep and difficult ideas. And it is surprising how much they do understand and remember. Anyone who has taught this age group over a period of years has had the experience of being reminded by a former pupil of some teaching of his which he was sure no one in his class had taken in when it was given. At this age pupils may be apparently quite unresponsive and yet may be taking in a great deal for private consideration. Their occasional questions are searching ones. The teacher needs much more knowledge of the doctrinal and philosophical aspects of the church teachings than one might imagine.

1. The Word. In the literal story place the emphasis on individual character and historical sequence. Stress daily reading of the Word and the use of memorizing for our individual needs.

2. Spiritual Sense. The general internal sense of each lesson, with as much detail as time and the ability of the class permit.

3. Doctrine. Preparation for confirmation. Doctrine of the Lord, of the Word, of Life, the Second Coming, the Lord's Supper, the Church.

4. Worship. Function of the church. Duty to the church. History of the New Church. Learn the Faith. Study the church service and principles of chanting.

5. Christian Living. What true leadership is. Responsibility in home and community. Boy-girl relationships (if indicated).

[Older teens] Senior: While these young people are still adolescents, they have passed beyond the stage of wishful thinking about adult life and are really trying to live as independent human beings. They are genuinely grasping at principles by which they may live good lives. The teacher should take for granted that their intentions are uniformly good and their mistakes mistakes of judgment, and should give them all the help possible both spiritual and natural. In school they are exposed to all sorts of civic and social attitudes and theories, and they need as clear and complete an understanding as possible of the basic philosophy of the New Church. "Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together," not as a helpful idea here and there, but a consistent doctrine of life which can guide our thinking in every field. The teacher of the Seniors has a very great opportunity and a very serious responsibility, for if he is able to lead these seeking young people to the treasure which the Lord has given us in His Second Coming, he is doing both them and the church the greatest service possible.

1. The Word. Emphasize throughout the Lord's part in the Bible story.

2. Spiritual Sense. More detailed study of the internal sense of the lessons, with some suggestion of the celestial sense.

3. Doctrine. Doctrine of degrees, the spiritual world, repentance, reformation, and regeneration, doctrine of marriage. Start them reading Swedenborg.

4. Worship. Deeper study of public worship and home devotions. Study of prayer.

5. Christian Living. Application of religious principles to adolescent problems. Some consideration of the cause of community and world problems.

Adult: One of the first duties of the teacher of the Adult class is to appraise his particular class as to their basic knowledge of the Bible and of the teachings of the church. It is unfortunately true that in most of our Sunday Schools the adults are fully as much in need as the children of instruction in this field. There are usually two or three well-read laymen and women in a Society, and sometimes these tend to monopolize the discussion and to carry it at a level which is beyond the understanding of the rest of the class. Such a situation also discourages the young people from graduating into the Adult class, and if the Sunday School is taking the place it should in the church life, there are always new people, often young couples, becoming interested who have not been brought up in the New Church and especially need instruction of the informal discussion type, based on the Bible. The attitude of the teacher should be that every member of the class is to be taken seriously and that each is able to make worthwhile contributions to the discussion. He should also be able to establish the fact that we are never any of us too old or too wise to need further Bible and doctrinal study, and that the Sunday School is the place especially for Bible study. Even with the Adults the Bible lesson is the first thing to cover each Sunday, and discussion of current topics and of special problems should grow out of the Bible lesson — not be substituted for it. The five goals should be kept in mind, the particular methods of fulfilling them being determined by the states and needs of the members of the class. Perhaps one more goal should be added for the Adults: that of developing the ability to communicate to others the New Church understanding of the Word and the New Church answers to individual and social problems. Every New Churchman should be a missionary, not merely for the sake of building up the church organization (although that in itself is a worthy endeavor), but because we have so much help to give, and the responsibility of giving it wherever and whenever it is needed is laid upon each one of us. We cannot fulfill this responsibility without constant study and intelligent thought about the problem of communication. This need should always be in the teacher's mind.

---
Bibliographic Data

William Ross Woofenden, editor
SWEDENBORG FOUNDATION West Chester, Pennsylvania
©2001 by The Swedenborg Foundation
First printed in 1977-1979 by the American New Church Sunday School Association.

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, or any information storage or retrieval system, without prior permission from the publisher.

ISBN (six volume set): 0-88785-357-6

Cover and additional text design by Karen Connor. Cover image: "The Sabbath" by Julius Schnorr von Carolsfeld from Treasury of Bible Illustrations (Mineola, N.Y.: Dover Publications, Inc., 1999)

Set in Stone Print
Printed in the United States of America.

For information on the Swedenborg Foundation, contact:
Swedenborg Foundation Publishers
http://www.swedenborg.com

---
About this version of the "Bible Study Notes"

We have revised these notes in a few minor ways to make them better suited to online use. These revisions include:
<ul>
<li>Each of the 158 lessons can stand on its own, related to a Bible story.</li>
<li>Importantly, we have inserted hyperlinks to the many cited Bible verses, and to the references from Swedenborg's theological works.</li>
<li>We have renamed the age groups, since the original age-order group names "Primary, Junior, Intermediate, Senior, Adult" seem to have been a little misleading to modern educators. Most would have switched Junior and Intermediate, and some thought Senior might have been referring to "senior citizens". These group names are as follows in this instance: Young children, Older children, Young teens, Older teens, Adults.</li>
<li>We have moved the "Basic Correspondences" section in each lesson up below Doctrinal Points, from its original home in the lesson for Intermediate students.</li>
<li>We haven't included the chart of the 4-year curriculum, or the 5 specific New Church Day lessons, or Appendix 2 on heredity and the human soul.</li>

---
Editor's Note from Rev. William Ross Woofenden, 2001 edition.

As we may see by the accompanying chart, this program was planned as a four-year Bible course, but it was originally arranged so that the whole Word was covered by periods each year, in order that the child might early realize that the Bible is one book — not only a continuous story but a completed one — and also that children might not so often enter the Sunday School for the first time in the middle of the Bible story with no idea of what has gone before. While this plan might in any one year seem to leave many important stories untouched, the retelling of the background of the successive periods from year to year in the context of different stories built up gradually in the child's mind both a surer knowledge and a better understanding of the whole letter of the Word. The plan insured that the beginning of the Bible story was not forgotten before the end was reached, and that the Old and New Testaments were seen in their proper relation and proportion. Although the lessons are now arranged in Bible sequence, it is still possible, by using the chart, to use the original four-year plan.

The notes for the various age groups are written with two purposes in view. It is not intended that the teacher should read them to the class. Neither is it intended that copies should be given out to the pupils in advance. Only the Bible reading should be done in advance. For the teacher, the notes are meant to suggest the points to be covered in the lesson, a possible order of presentation, and the general level of meaning which pupils in the particular age group may be expected to comprehend. For the pupil, if he has his own set of the books, they are meant to be taken home, read as a review during the week, and preserved for future reference.

It is very important that the teacher plan his use of the class time carefully. Five minutes or less at the beginning of the period are enough for review questions. Then give five minutes to a carefully thought-out covering of the background of the lesson for the day before going into the lesson proper. In the Old Testament, build the background as far as possible about persons and places in order to fix these in their proper sequence in the pupils' minds. In the New Testament the background should be the factual story of the Lord's life on earth.

The writings of the church tell us that "generals" must be grasped before "particulars" can be understood in their proper context; so we may feel sure that our first object in the Sunday School should be to impress the general outline of the whole Bible story on the minds of our pupils. The covering of the whole story each year has this objective in view.

The two survey lessons (nos. 22 and 24 on the accompanying chart) are general lessons but are based on a different passage each year in order to give the pupils a wider variety in the study of the Prophets than has been possible in previous courses. They are also optional lessons, written in such a way that Sunday Schools with a school year of less than forty sessions may omit them without losing continuity. Each series also contains fifteen lessons from the New Testament. A different Gospel is studied each year. Two of the fifteen lessons are written as optional lessons; three are the special lessons for Christmas, Palm Sunday, and Easter; and three are from the book of Revelation.

This present memorial edition in permanent book form has been rearranged in Bible sequence, necessitating some editing in order to eliminate references to the "last lesson," the "next lesson," etc. Other editorial changes have been for the most part limited to the occasional correction of matters of fact and to the rearranging of some of the features in order to make their use more practical. The most extensive change has been made in combining the notes for Beginner and Primary ages with an attempt to keep the best of both. Notes for Teachers, instead of being kept all together on a single sheet, have been put with the notes for the various age levels (e.g., Junior teacher suggestions will now be found at the beginning of the section for Juniors). The Doctrinal Points, instead of being grouped in ten-lesson units, appear with the lesson to which they refer.

No substantive changes have been made in the text, although occasional editorial comments have been added in footnotes. It has been a privilege to have been involved in helping make these valuable materials available to a wider audience.

The editor would like to thank Louise Dole Woofenden and Adrienne Frank for their contributions to the revision of this second edition.

- William Ross Woofenden, September 2001

---
About the Author

The following brief memorial address was included in the 2001 printed edition, and it provides a good, brief biography of Mrs. Anita Sturges Dole, 1889-1973, the author of this thorough, insightful curriculum.

In Memoriam of Mrs. Anita Sturges Dole
<i>Edmonton, Alberta, April 13, 1973</i>

The author of these lesson notes was born on March 18, 1889 in Chicago, Illinois, to James Dwight and Anna Gertrude Cary Sturges. She received her education in the Chicago public schools, and received the A.B. degree from the University of Chicago in 1908, having been elected to Phi Beta Kappa the previous year on the basis of her academic achievement. As a child she attended an Episcopal Sunday school, and was confirmed in that faith in 1902. On completing her education, she was employed first as a cataloguer in the University of Chicago Library (1908-1910), and subsequently as secretary to Professor William I. Thomas (1910-1912), as a Research Assistant in the Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy (1912-1914), and as Assistant Manager of a small publishing company (1914-1917).

During this period she studied voice and was in training under Herman De Vries of the Chicago Opera Company, considering a career in music, when in February of 1917 she was persuaded by her sister Alice to accept a teaching position at Urbana, a New Church high school and junior college in Ohio, to fill an unexpected vacancy. That summer, at the end of the term, she went with her sister to the New Church Assembly in Almont, Michigan. There she heard the Rev. Dr. Thomas King give a lecture in which he traced the correspondence of the donkey in the Bible, illustrating its spiritual meaning with quotations throughout the Bible. She was fond of telling how, at the end of this talk, she was so convinced of the truth of the doctrine of the New Church concerning the Bible that she was ready to join the New Church. She was confirmed by Dr. King there at Almont, in August, 1917. That fall she made her decision to give up her promising career in music and devote herself to the teaching of the New Church doctrines, and to the work of the church. Her lovely soprano voice, though lost to the world at large, enriched the worship of her church to the end of her life.

She also loved to tell how, before she went to Almont, she had audited a course in philosophy being given at Urbana by its principal, Rev. Louis A. Dole, of how she had been most strongly attracted to him, and how Mr. Dole had apparently taken no notice of her at all. However, when she returned from Almont a confirmed and enthusiastic member of the New Church, Mr. Dole lost no time in becoming better acquainted with the new teacher on his staff. They were married on New Church Day — June 19, 1919.

In September of 1920 Mr. Dole accepted a call to serve the New Church society in Fryeburg, Maine, on a six-month trial basis; they stayed there for seventeen years. Almost immediately on taking up the Fryeburg pastorate, they discovered an interest among several Massachusetts New Church members who summered in Fryeburg, in establishing a summer assembly similar to that at Almont. It was through the on-the-scene efforts of the Doles, coupled with the fund-raising activities of the Massachusetts group, that the Fryeburg New Church Assembly became a reality in 1921, with Mr. Dole as its first president.

Time passed, and Mr. Dole was invested as General Pastor of the Maine Association of the New Church. In this capacity he became increasingly concerned at the decline of the Bath society where his father had once been minister, and where he himself had been confirmed. After several unsuccessful attempts to re-establish worship services in Bath by other means, he accepted a call to serve as its minister. The Doles moved to Bath in 1937.

In Bath, Mrs. Dole became active in the Parent-Teacher Association, serving several terms as president of her local chapter and as chairman of the Constitution and By-Laws Committee of the state organization; in the Girl Scout movement, serving as Commissioner for the Bath area for several years; in the Bath Council of Churches; in the Maine Council of Churches, serving on its Constitution and By-Laws Committee; and in the Bath Council of Church Women, which she helped to found. During World War 2 she was Production Chairman of the Red Cross chapter in Bath, supervising the preparation of war relief materials sent overseas from the Bath area. Through these and other activities people of all faiths came to know and love her, and many found in her that rare combination of spiritual insight, practical advice, and personal interest which brought them again and again to her door. Many were still corresponding with her at the time of her passing on.

She was one of the most active members of the New Church, not only at the local level, but on the national scene. She served from time to time on the various committees of the General Convention and was elected to the Board of Managers of its theological school, from which she resigned when her son became a student there. She was active in the National Alliance of New Church Women, becoming one of its presidents and an ardent promoter of its Round Robin program — a system of circulating letters among particularly the isolated New Church women. She was for some years its Mother Robin.

She was best known, and will likely be longest remembered, for what she herself considered her life's work: the preparation of a comprehensive four-year course of Sunday school lesson notes based on the interpretation of the Bible in the light of the New Church teachings concerning its spiritual meaning. Although she did the research and writing for these lessons herself, she always sought her husband's opinion of her work, and would publish nothing which he had not read and approved. Working together, both in writing and in parish teaching, they passed on to their congregations and to their many church friends a rich heritage of Bible scholarship of a truly spiritual character, and they also achieved a degree of success rare in this century of widening generation gaps, in passing on to all three of their children not only their knowledge, but also their deep and lasting love for the Word of the Lord and for the church based on it.

In 1966, two years after the passing of her husband into the spiritual world, Mrs. Dole retired from parish work and went to live first with her son in Massachusetts and finally with her daughter in Edmonton. She never did retire from active service to the church, continuing to teach in the Sunday school and to participate in study programs, and carrying on a remarkably extensive and varied correspondence to the end.

In her old age she looked forward with increasing anticipation and some impatience to her passing into the spiritual world to join her beloved husband. This became her dearest wish, and it was granted by our Lord's divine mercy on April 7, 1973, shortly after her eighty-fourth birthday.

We rejoice today in her release from the increasing burdens of old age, and look forward to joining her when in due course we are called into that world where she has awakened and taken up her life's work in the health and vigor of her spirit.

She will always be held in loving memory by her three children, Rev. George F. Dole, Mrs. Louise Woofenden, and Mrs. Gertrude Tremblay; by her sons-in-law and daughter-in-law; by her thirteen grandchildren; and by her countless relatives and friends.