
=== Adult

The lesson should center on the nature of the natural and spiritual rationals and the difference between them. Ishmael is the reasoning that is born of the world, Isaac the reasoning that is born of the church.

Our writings tell us that we commit sin only when we do what we know or believe to be wrong. When we do wrong, believing that we are doing right, the inevitable external consequences follow, but our souls are not injured. The Lord is always striving to keep us from destroying our spiritual life; so when He sees that men are no longer able to resist certain evils, He takes away the knowledge that these things are wrong, and lets them live under lower standards in order that they may still be able to choose to do what they believe is right and save themselves from hell, if they will. The Hebrew nation began after men had degenerated to such a degree that the inner planes of their minds had been closed and they thought only of this world, and not at all of spiritual things. All spiritual knowledge had thus been taken from them and many things seemed right which the people of the Most Ancient and Ancient churches had known to be wrong. One of these things was marriage with more than one wife. This is why the Old Testament Scriptures contain so many instances of multiple marriage. We should understand this in order that we may not be troubled by the question of why the Lord permitted such things to become part of the Bible. Abraham and Sarah did no conscious wrong when Abraham, at Sarah's prompting, took Hagar to wife. They were old and had had no children and the carrying on of their family meant a great deal to them, especially in view of the Lord's promise that Abraham's seed should inherit the land of Canaan and should become a mighty nation.

But in the Lord's sight the son of the Egyptian bondwoman was not a proper heir for Abraham, and fourteen years later the Lord performed a miracle and permitted Sarah, then ninety years old, to bear Abraham a son. When, on the day when Isaac was weaned, Ishmael mocked at him, Sarah was more clear—sighted than Abraham. Abraham's love for his first son would have prompted him to keep Ishmael in the home, but the Lord told him to obey Sarah and send Hagar and Ishmael away.

In general Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob picture the development of three planes in our lives: the celestial, the spiritual, and the natural. When we are babies, we live in a celestial state — although we have no real knowledge or understanding of it — in which we are close to the Lord (Matthew 18:10) and depend wholly upon His care without thinking for ourselves or trying to govern ourselves. This is the period represented by Abraham. Then comes a time when our reasoning faculty begins to develop. This general period is represented by Ishmael and Isaac. Then follows the period when we have to carry out our ideas in the conduct of our daily life and occupations — make them practical, or put them into practice. This period, the hardest of all, is represented by Jacob and his sons. We must pass through all these stages of development before we are really ready for the work of regeneration.

Isaac, when he is grown up and has become the head of his family, represents our reason when it is fully and rightly developed, but this does not come all at once. When a child first begins to use his reason, he makes a great many mistakes because he has only superficial knowledge to draw upon and because he is proud of his new faculty and unwilling to admit that others may know more than he does. This first type of reasoning power is represented by Ishmael. Ishmael was a son of Abraham. That is, our first reasoning power, as well as our higher reason, comes to us from the Lord in the course of our normal development. But Ishmael's mother was an Egyptian bondwoman. We recall that women represent the affections and that Egypt represents external or memory knowledge, a purely natural affection. All children at a certain age are eager to learn all sorts of things, to fill their minds with information of various kinds without discrimination, and their first reasoning faculty springs from this affection and is fed by the material which they gather into their memories. But Hagar was only a bondwoman. This pictures the fact that the mere affection for learning is not the true affection from which our thoughts and feelings should spring, but only one of the servants of that affection, and that it should be kept in control and not permitted to set itself up. If it is not kept in its place, it easily becomes scornful of spiritual things. So first Hagar and then both Hagar and Ishmael had to be sent away to make room for Abraham's true heir.

Yet both times the Lord preserved Hagar and her child. The love of learning and the reasoning which springs from it are both orderly and useful in their place. Ishmael married an Egyptian woman. That is, our natural reason — or natural rational, as Swedenborg calls it — not only springs from an affection for natural knowledges, but this affection is its proper "wife" from which its further developments come. Ishmael became a great nation, but he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran, the Arabian desert. Our natural rational continues to develop and to function throughout our lives, but its field of usefulness is in the constantly changing environs of our external lives, and not in the Holy Land of our inner thought and feeling. Our spiritual development is carried on through the higher rational, the spiritual rational, which is represented by Isaac, the son of Abraham by his true wife Sarah, who represents the affection for spiritual truth.

Ishmael has his place in our lives. The Lord gives us our natural rational and wishes it to develop and to serve in our outer lives: prudence, thrift, foresight, executive ability, salesmanship are all "children" of Ishmael; they are useful and worth cultivating so long as they are recognized as servants and not considered spiritual virtues or allowed to interfere with our spiritual life and development. The Lord said to Abraham, "In Isaac shall thy seed be called." The spiritual rational is later in developing — Isaac could not be born until Abraham and Sarah were old — but it is the thoughts and affections which spring from it — Isaac's descendants - which connect us with the Lord and enable us ultimately to possess the Holy Land of heavenly happiness.

Examples of the distinction between Ishmael and Isaac in our own experience are not hard to find. Ishmael tells us that we are in this world for only a short time and that therefore we should get as much as possible for ourselves from it in pleasure, in money, and in fame. Isaac also tells us that we are in this world for only a short time, but he tells us that we shall live to eternity in a world where nothing counts but the character we have developed here, and that therefore it makes little difference whether or not we have pleasure, money, and fame here so long as we are developing heavenly character. Ishmael uses many sharp arguments to uphold the necessity for considering self first — he was an archer. Isaac is quiet and gentle, at home in the Holy Land, seeking to learn the Lord's will and to base the daily decisions upon that will. He takes his wife from among his father's kindred. He does not contend for the wells of the Philistines. He is forbidden by the Lord to go down into Egypt. The spiritual rational must maintain its integrity against all worldly temptations if our spiritual life is to be preserved.

