
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Young people in their early teens are at the stage when they are beginning to exercise the natural rational freely. They are, whether openly or in private, examining the opinions and conduct of their elders from what seems to them a superior height of knowledge. They are very sure they are right — their parents are simply behind the times, getting old and dull. Children at this age are sometimes very disagreeable without realizing it at all, because they can see no flaws in what their natural reason tells them. It is the "wild—donkey" stage. The Intermediate teacher will do their parents a great service if he can impress them with the story of Ishmael and Isaac in such a way that they will see the limitations of Ishmael and why he had to be put in his place and can be led to realize that there is a higher type of reasoning into which they themselves may soon grow if they will. It may be helpful to show them that they have a promise of this higher faculty in themselves whenever they find themselves arguing with their own conscience, for their conscience is the beginning of their higher reason.

---
We are told in Genesis 13:1-2 that when Abram came back from Egypt, he was very rich "in cattle, in silver, and in gold." This is a picture of the great treasure of knowledge we acquire when we are children. It is knowledge of the things of the natural world and also knowledge of the Bible and of how the Lord wants us to live. We bring this knowledge back to the land of Canaan — the Holy Land — when we use the things we have learned in the Lord's service. Abram settled in the southern part of the land at Hebron, which became the center of the Jewish Church in its early years. Like Abram himself, Hebron represents a state of simple, childlike goodness and obedience.

The Lord had promised that all the land of Canaan should belong to Abraham and his descendants, and that they should become a great nation. Yet Abraham and Sarah were now old and still had no children. Sarah's giving Abraham her Egyptian servant Hagar to wife and Abraham's having a son by her was not wrong in their sight, for it was customary in those times for a man to have more than one wife. By the time of this third church, the truths originally given to mankind had been so far forgotten that nothing was known about true marriage. The Lord did not condemn Abraham — He does not condemn us for our unintentional sins — but He did not continue Abraham's line through Ishmael.

When Abraham was a hundred years old and Sarah was ninety, the Lord permitted Sarah to bear Abraham a son. The boy was named Isaac, which means "laughter." Read Genesis 21:6 to learn one reason for this name, but also read Genesis 17:19, which shows that the Lord Himself gave the name. We can well believe that Abraham and Sarah were joyful when he was born.

Ishmael was fourteen when Isaac was born. We know that many boys at that age are not much interested in babies. Babies seem to them very little and weak, and they can't see why people make such a fuss about them. Ishmael was this kind of boy, and he pictures the kind of reasoning that such a boy uses. To him physical strength and physical ability meant a great deal, and he was scornful of weakness.

Just as Hagar had been sent away when she was scornful of Sarah, so now the same thing happened to Ishmael. Abraham loved Ishmael and did not want to send him away, but the Lord told him to obey Sarah. Sarah pictures our love for heavenly things and her son Isaac pictures a higher type of reasoning power than that pictured by Ishmael, a reasoning which judges according to spiritual standards instead of natural ones. The "Ishmael" in us would tell us that we should do the things which will bring us the most obvious profit now; our "Isaac" would tell us that we should do the things which will please the Lord and help other people. Ishmael would call a rich man successful; Isaac would call a good man successful. Ishmael would think of death as a tragedy; Isaac would think of death as the beginning of real life.

If we want the Isaac type of reasoning to grow in us, we have to keep Ishmael in his proper place. He is useful to us all our lives and the Lord wants him to live and prosper, but not to direct our thinking and acting. We remember that all through the Bible the Holy Land pictures a heavenly character, while Egypt pictures mere knowledge in the memory. The wilderness pictures our state of mind when we do not see anything above the worldly or natural level and so have no real spiritual home or abiding place, no fixed foundation from which to think and decide our problems. Our minds wander about from place to place.

It is said that Ishmael became an archer. Arrows picture arguments. The natural reason is very clever in the use of argument. Remember this when you are inclined to argue with your mother or father about something they say you ought or ought not to do. Can you see why Ishmael married an Egyptian wife? Think how beautifully all the details in this story fit into the picture as the internal sense of the Word explains it.

