
=== Junior

Have the Juniors find Hebron and Beersheba on a map. Dwell on the story of Hagar's first dismissal and then of how Ishmael showed the same spirit as his mother. If the children get clearly in mind the character of Ishmael, they will more easily understand later the difference in the correspondence of Ishmael and Isaac. Stress the fact that Isaac was Abraham's heir, but that the Lord gave Ishmael a promise also.

The Lord had promised Abraham that his descendants should inherit the Holy Land and should become a great nation, but Abraham and Sarah had had no children, and now they were very old. So Sarah had given her husband her Egyptian servant Hagar. In the depraved state of religion at that time, it was not considered wrong to have more than one wife; so Abraham and Sarah were doing no intentional wrong.

What was the name of the son of Abraham and Hagar?

Why did Sarah want to send Hagar away?

How did the Lord save Hagar?

What did He tell her to do?

Hagar obeyed the Lord and returned to her mistress. The son who was born to her was named Ishmael. Abraham was very happy to have this son, but the Lord told him that Ishmael was not to be his heir, but that Sarah herself would have a son. When he was finally born, Abraham was a hundred years old and Sarah ninety. What was he named?

How old was Ishmael when Isaac was born?

How can you tell?

What did Ishmael do which made Sarah angry?

Are we ever inclined to make fun of people who may be better than we?

When we do this, it is because we see only the outside of things and have not learned to judge wisely. When we are young, we often get into trouble by just such hasty and foolish judgments. Remember this when you are tempted to think you know better than your parents what you ought to do.

Sarah was angry with both Hagar and Ishmael.

What did she ask Abraham to do?

How did Abraham feel about it? What did the Lord tell him to do?

Parents often have to punish their children when they would much rather not. Sometimes they even have to send them away from home. Many children have been sent away to school for this reason. But if we do what is right, the Lord will always take care of the consequences.

So Abraham sent Hagar and Ishmael away, giving them bread and water to take with them. Again they went into the wilderness, but this time Hagar did not find the well herself. When she thought she and Ishmael were about to die, she wept and, it is recorded, God heard the voice of the lad (see @AC 2691) and "opened her eyes and she saw a well of water." Do you think Hagar was wandering around with her eyes shut? No, we have other eyes besides the ones we usually mean when we say "eyes." We have the eyes of our minds, and these may be shut when our physical eyes are open. When some hard problem is given us, we sometimes say, "I don't see the answer to that." And sometimes we shut the eyes of our minds on purpose, because we just don't want to see. We do this when we want to have our own way instead of doing what we really know is right. But then, when our own way leads us into serious trouble, we become humble and anxious for help, just as Hagar did when she thought she and Ishmael were going to die in the wilderness. The Lord can open our eyes to see the truth just as He showed Hagar the well of water.

What did Ishmael become?

What country did his wife come from?

What country had his mother come from?

