
=== Notes for Parents

Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the three great patriarchs of the Jews, were men like ourselves with weaknesses and faults. The Lord did not choose those whose lives He recorded in His Word because they were better than other men, but because He saw that He could direct them in such a way that from the record of their lives we could learn truths which we need, and He dictated that record to the men who wrote it down in such a way that every word might contain deep lessons for future ages. The Lord leads us as we are, and uses our sins and our mistakes as well as our good deeds and better feelings in His effort, to lead us away from evil and toward the heavenly life.

In our lesson for today we review briefly the fact that Sarah, because she had no child, had given her Egyptian maidservant to Abraham to wife. Men in that time had, as we have already learned, traveled very far from their first innocent and happy state. They had by Abraham's day lost all knowledge of true marriage, and polygamy was generally accepted as permissible. Sarah and Abraham had no thought of doing wrong in this story, and they were not condemned for this decision by the Lord. Indeed Ishmael, the son of Abraham by Hagar, was not only preserved, but was promised that his seed should be a great nation.

However, he was not to be Abraham's heir. Sarah finally gave birth to a son — Isaac — through whom the line of Abraham was to be carried on. This line of Abraham pictures our own development from infancy to adult life. As little children we are simple and obedient, as Abraham was. But it is not long before we begin to try to think and reason for ourselves. We parents all know how "difficult" our children can be while this first reasoning is developing. They do not have experience enough to see beneath the surface of things or to realize that what looks pleasant is not necessarily good, and they are always sure they are right and their parents wrong. This is Ishmael. Ishmael was a "wild—donkey" man. The Hebrew word translated merely "wild" in Genesis 16:12 really means "wild—donkey." Ishmael and his mother both showed the same disposition we see in our young teenagers. Yet this faculty of independent thinking about our external conduct, when put in its proper place, is a necessary and useful one. The Lord promised Abraham that Ishmael also should become a great nation although his place would not be in the Holy Land.

The birth of Isaac pictures the birth of a higher type of reasoning power which bases its judgments on knowledge of divine truth and the desire to serve the Lord, instead of upon outward appearances and principles of self-interest. It is from this higher reason that we are able to progress spiritually.

