
=== Senior

It is often helpful to go back to the first verse of the Bible and point out that the whole Bible is a study of the development of the heavens and the earth in man, as a race and as an individual, and that it is our principal business in life to recognize both and to develop them in their proper relationship. Seniors are beginning to outgrow the Ishmael stage. They are facing such questions as, "Can a man be honest and succeed in business?" "Can a girl be popular without 'petting'?" "What is the use of going to college when I might be earning money now?" These are questions to which the answer of Ishmael is very loud and positive. We need to do all we can to strengthen the baby Isaac in them.

Today we come to the fulfillment of the promise made to Abraham by the Lord. Sarah bears a son, and he is named Isaac. Abraham was a hundred years old when Isaac was born, and Sarah was ninety.

In the Scriptures the birth of a son pictures a new development of truth or a new intellectual faculty. Abraham's first son, Ishmael, fourteen years older than Isaac, was born to him by Hagar, Sarah's Egyptian bondservant, and represents our first reasoning power, born of our observation of the world about us and judging according to appearances, without taking spiritual things into consideration. When we are developing this kind of reason, we are very sure that we are right and are impatient with those who disagree with us. We like to argue with everybody, and we are scornful of the ideas and advice of older and wiser people. We may make ourselves so disagreeable that people avoid us, as Sarah wanted Ishmael sent away.

But if we believe in the Lord and the Word and really want to do right, there comes a time when we begin to see more deeply into life, and to reason on the basis of the Lord's purposes for us instead of from merely worldly considerations. This is the birth of Isaac, whose mother was Sarah, the affection for spiritual things. Isaac represents the true reasoning power which the Lord intends to be ruler of our minds. Isaac and not Ishmael was to be Abraham's heir.

Then Ishmael had to be cast out. For instance, when we are young, we are likely to think that having fun is the object of life and that bodily strength and ability, good looks, and good clothes are the most desirable things. We admire "football heroes," good dancers, those who dress well, those with money to spend. Even when we begin to look for deeper qualities, it is often hard for us to believe that they are not necessarily present in the people and things we have admired. It is hard for us to put the physical attractiveness of a person out of the question and to look more deeply into those things which seem to produce desirable external results and ask, "Are they based on right principles?" Abraham grieved because he had to send Ishmael away. Some people never outgrow the Ishmael stage; they never really grow up spiritually. They may live good moral lives and even belong to a church and attend it regularly, but their idea of doing good, both for themselves and for their church, never gets beyond externals, the things which are called good in a worldly sense. They are scornful of those who dare to question the actual "goodness" of what they propose.

Ishmael mocked Isaac, just as Hagar earlier had scorned Sarah.

Our natural reasoning power looks askance at spiritual things and makes fun of them. So if our spiritual reasoning faculty is to develop, the lower must be thrust out. This is hard to do, and at first it may seem about to die altogether. But it is not to die. Our lower reasoning power — the "natural rational," as Swedenborg calls it — is useful in its proper place. When we recognize that it is helpless by itself and must look to the Lord in the Word for life and guidance, it can see the truth. When Hagar saw that she and her son were about to die and wept in despair, the Lord opened her eyes to see the well of water in the wilderness.

From that time on Ishmael, protected by the Lord, prospered. The fact that his mother took him a wife from the land of Egypt is quite proper in the internal meaning, for the affection for natural knowledge is the true "wife" of the natural rational faculty. He continued to dwell in the wilderness because the natural reason is concerned with many different natural fields and has no fixed abiding place. He was an archer, because arrows picture arguments and the natural reason is interested in argument concerning external things. But the Ishmaelites continue to play an important role in the Bible story. Our natural reason, properly placed, is strong and useful, helping us to make our way in the world, to defend ourselves and others, to master those things which are necessary to our natural life and to our occupations and to confirm spiritual things by what we experience in the world. The truly good man bases his thinking and acting upon what the Lord teaches him in the Word, but he does not withdraw from the world and live in a world of dreams. He lives a useful, practical life from love to the Lord and the neighbor, thinking always what the Lord would have him do rather than what will bring him the praise of men.

