
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this lesson the emphasis should be on the necessity of recognizing that all goodness and truth and all power to do right are from the Lord alone. This recognition is a constant factor in regenerate living, and without it there is no regeneration. No matter how orderly and benevolent and even religious the outward life may be, if we cling to feelings of self-esteem we have not even conquered Jericho.

---
The occupation of the Holy Land represents the achievement of truly spiritual living, in which the crossing of the Jordan and the taking of Jericho represent the first steps. It is hard for many people to see the difference between spiritual and natural living, especially if the natural living is charitable and orderly. Natural living is living for the pleasures and satisfactions of this life, even though these may not be merely physical enjoyments. There may even be recognition and worship of the Lord, but from a principle of obedience only, with hope of reward and fear of the consequences of evil as the principal motives in obeying. Spiritual living is living in conscious knowledge of the Lord and His purposes, substituting eternal for temporal values, trying to make and keep the mind and heart as well as the outward conduct pure in the sight of the Lord. For example, the natural man is likely to look upon his troubles in this world as sent by the Lord for his chastening, upon death as a calamity, upon success as measured in terms of the good things of this world, upon worship as a duty, upon those who injure him as his enemies and those who favor him as his friends. This is because he does not live in spiritual light. The spiritual man looks upon his troubles as opportunities for seeing and conquering his own evils, upon death as an orderly and happy step, upon success as measured in terms of the ability to help others, upon worship as a privilege, upon those who injure him and those who favor him alike as the Lord's children whom he should help to do right and, where possible, turn from wrongdoing. The natural man is content with general knowledge about the Lord, while the spiritual man loves to learn more and more. The natural man sets an orderly external life as his goal, but the spiritual man examines himself for deeper evils and tries to overcome them.

To become spiritual one must be born again, born of the spirit.

Swedenborg says: "Before regeneration man acts from obedience; but after regeneration from affection." (@AC 8505) A familiar hymn expresses this desire to become spiritual: "Give us to think as angels think, and feel as angels feel." A good test to apply to our thoughts and feelings is just that: Can I imagine an angel thinking and feeling as I do now? The Lord expressed the difference in this way: "Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you." (John 15:15)

The Lord intends us all to live spiritual lives, to attain the Holy Land of heavenly character, to live within its borders. But we are born with all sorts of inherited tendencies to evil and falsity. These are the hostile peoples which occupied the Holy Land and the walled cities which had to be taken. For example, let anyone try genuinely to love his enemy and he will immediately become conscious of the foes which are settled within himself. It is comparatively easy to learn not to strike back — worldly prudence and even common politeness will teach us that — but it is not so easy to learn not to feel injured, not to allow the mind to dwell on the injury, but instead to think of the one who has injured us as someone needing our help. "A man's foes shall be they of his own household." (Matthew 10:36) We should accustom ourselves to thinking of all the evil peoples described in the Word as within ourselves - not in somebody else. If we examine ourselves honestly, we shall soon pick out the "giants." Our "walled cities" are entrenchments of false reasonings by which we seek to defend these evils. This will light up for us the story of the taking of Jericho.

First we come to the Jordan as the means of entrance to the Holy Land. This wonderful river, whose name means "descender," rushing down from the snows of Hermon to lose itself finally in the Dead Sea, is in general a picture of the Lord's truth in the Word, coming down from Him through the heavens and then through the minds of men in various states until it touches the lowest possible state of life. As a border of the Holy Land it pictures especially the simple truths which introduce us to the spiritual life, and when the land is filled with evil people and the Jordan seems to oppose the entrance of the conquering host, it pictures the perversions of truth, the falsities which would keep us from engaging in battle against our inner foes — such falsities as "I can't help it; I was born that way," and, "You can't change human nature."

It should be noted that when the people entered the Holy Land, the manna ceased (Joshua 5:10-12). The Sower (Vol. 2, p. 24) puts very simply what is meant by this: "The manna represents the strength from the Lord in times of trial. It does not represent the full satisfaction of a life that has become altogether heavenly. That satisfaction is represented by the Passover in Canaan and by the old corn of the land, and when the people had eaten of this, the manna ceased." The occasional sense of spiritual satisfaction which we get during the process of reformation is merely a foretaste of the steady joy of heavenly living. People who live spiritually are happy with a deep, abiding happiness which no natural satisfaction can ever give. "These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full." (John 15:11)

There were three elements in the Lord's charge to Joshua (Joshua 1:6-9): (1) the cherishing of the law, (2) active, courageous attack upon the enemy, and (3) trust in the Lord's power to save. These are wonderfully carried out in the story of the crossing of Jordan and the conquest of Jericho. (1) It is the ark containing the commandments which leads the way across Jordan. The twelve stones from the Jordan, representing all the introductory truths, are set up for a memorial at Gilgal; the ark goes before the people as they compass the city of Jericho. (2) The priests bearing the ark are commanded to go forward straight into the river, and the river does not part until the feet of the priests have touched it. The sevenfold marching around Jericho represents a complete examination of the falsities which defend our inner evils. (3) The Jordan is parted by a miracle. The people are commanded to celebrate the Passover, the memorial of their miraculous deliverance from Egypt. Seven priests with seven trumpets of ram's horn, signifying the power of divine truth from divine good, are to go before the ark when they compass Jericho. Jericho is delivered to them by a miracle.

The conquest of Jericho in general represents the change from a feeling that we can indulge our evils with impunity to a sense that we are safe only in the care of the Lord. Jericho was called the "city of palm trees," and the palm is the symbol of the principle that salvation is from the Lord alone. This is the first lesson we must learn if we are to live spiritually. The sense of self-sufficiency, the tendency of self-esteem, the pride of self-intelligence — which are deeply entrenched within each one of us from our natural inheritance — must be recognized and overcome before we can go forward to face and root out our other evils and find our true homes in the heavenly land of promise. For the detailed correspondence of the story of the fall of Jericho, read the passage from Apocalypse Explained below.

