
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the story itself is important for this class, with emphasis on our constant need to guard against the thought that we of ourselves are able to win victories apart from obedience to the Lord and trust in Him.

---
In chapter 5 are described four important things connected with Gilgal, the first encampment of the Israelites in the Holy Land. First they set up the twelve stones taken from the bed of Jordan as memorial of their miraculous crossing. Then came the circumcision of all the males who entered the Holy Land. This, the Jewish equivalent of our baptism, represented purification and the dedication of their lives to the service of God. They had not observed this practice while they were wandering in the wilderness, and you perhaps remember that Joshua and Caleb were the only ones who had left Egypt as adults who were permitted to enter the Holy Land. Next the Passover was celebrated, to remind them at the very beginning of their conquest that they owed their freedom and success to the Lord. And finally the manna ceased to appear and they began to eat the fruits of the Holy Land itself — the "old corn of the land." The manna represents the day-by-day sustenance which the Lord gives us during our period of reformation without our knowing just how it comes or doing anything ourselves to help produce it. This cannot be stored up or provided in advance of our need. When we begin the period of regeneration, however, we experience a spiritual satisfaction which we can understand and in some measure cultivate.

Jericho was the first city in the Holy Land which Israel had to conquer. A city is the symbol of a system of doctrine or belief. This first city in the Holy Land, in the plain of Jordan, represents in its good sense the simplest understanding of genuine truth necessary to spiritual living. Jericho was called the "city of palm trees," and the palm tree pictures the principle that the Lord gives the victory. But Jericho in the hands of the enemy represents the denial of this principle, or our natural and strongly entrenched feeling that our power to understand and do right is in ourselves. Even after we enter the Holy Land we find clinging to us false ideas and points of view carried over from the time when we believed ourselves to be independent of the Lord. The recognition and overcoming of these remains of self-confidence and pride are pictured by the conquest of Jericho. Note that Jericho was to be utterly destroyed, only those things in it being saved which could be devoted to the service of the Lord.

The conquest of Jericho shows us the way in which our natural self-confidence is to be overcome. It is by persistently declaring to ourselves and confirming from the Word the truth that all our power comes from the Lord as we obey the commandments. The seven priests with the seven trumpets of ram's horn were to go before the ark around the city. A lamb represents innocence, or trust in the Lord. We associate the lamb with the kind of innocence which we find in little children before they begin to assert themselves. But if this quality is cherished and developed, it becomes a strong, beautiful trait of mature character which makes one want to protect and defend everything that is pure and good, and aid all people in the name of the Lord. The ram represents this strong kind of innocence, and his horns are the symbol of his power. When we "speak up" for the right against evil either in ourselves or in others, it is like blowing on a trumpet of ram's horn. Seven, the holy number, always pictures the fulfillment which comes after persistent struggle to do right. Only by steady determination to look to the Lord instead of to self can our natural selfish will be changed.

The curse on Jericho warns us against slipping back into former states. All through the Bible we are repeatedly taught that when we go back on any truth we have really acknowledged, we do ourselves lasting harm. This is what is called "profanation." The curse on Jericho was literally fulfilled (see 1 Kings 16:34).

