
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this class review is important. The teacher will find it helpful to prepare in advance a list of Bible references bearing on the events which lead up to this miracle. If there is time, have the children look up those they do not easily recall.

---
When the Israelites arrived at Gilgal, they set up twelve stones from the Jordan for a memorial at this place where they made their first camp in the Holy Land. There they also celebrated the Passover feast.

What did this feast commemorate?

The name Gilgal means "a rolling." Read Joshua 5:9 to see why it was given this name. After this the manna, with which they had been fed for forty years in the wilderness, ceased; and they began to eat "the corn of the land."

The first city which stood in the way of their possession of the Holy Land was Jericho. In a book called On Holy Ground the Rev. William L. Worcester writes: "In the Gospel days Jericho was a city standing back in the edge of the plain just where the brook Kelt and the road from Jerusalem come out from the hills. But the old Jericho of the time of Joshua was a mile further north. The fine spring called Elisha's fountain is still there, coming out from the foot of a hill which is formed in part by the ruins of the old city. From this hill of ruins you look out over the broad plain; and behind it is a stern weather—beaten cliff with caves in which hermits live." Jericho was the first walled city the Israelites had ever had to attack, and the Lord used it to teach the Israelites that it would always be His power and not their own strength which would give them victory. He told them just what they were to do.

What were they to carry around the city?

Who were to go ahead of the ark?

What were they to carry?

How many times a day were they to march around it for the first six days?

How many times were they to march around it on the seventh day?

Do you remember where the number seven first appears in the Bible?

As the Lord, in the allegory of Creation, labored for six days and then rested on the seventh, so the number six stands for our struggles with temptation and the number seven for the peaceful, happy, and holy state which follows victory over temptation. In the Bible, whenever one is commanded to do a thing seven times, it pictures perseverance in doing right until we have come to love the right. See how many times the number seven is used in the story of the fall of Jericho. With the Jews, after the commandments were given at Sinai and the two tables of stone on which the Lord had written them were placed in the ark, the Lord's power was exercised through the ark, and you can easily see that this means for us that the Lord can always help us if we obey the commandments.

In chapter 2, which we have omitted, we are told that while the children of Israel were encamped at Shittim in the land of Moab, Joshua sent two men into the Holy Land to spy out Jericho. While they were in Jericho, these men became suspected and they would have been killed had not a woman named Rahab hidden them among the stalks of flax which she had piled up on her roof. Her house was built on the wall of the city, and after dark she let the two spies down by a rope through her window on the outside of the wall so that they could escape. They promised her that when Jericho was captured, she and all her family would be spared. Now we see that Joshua kept their promise. Tradition says that this Rahab was the Rachab mentioned in Matthew 1:5, who was an ancestress of David.

What was saved out of Jericho besides Rahab and her family?

What were these things to be used for?

What was done with everything else in the city?

What curse was put on the city?

Read 1 Kings 16:34 to see how this curse was fulfilled. There are two familiar stories in the New Testament in which Jericho also figures. Look up Luke 10:30 and 19:1-10. And read carefully verse 18 of our chapter for today, which you will want to remember when we come to our next lesson from the book of Joshua.

A Shofar, or Ram's Horn Trumpet [illustration]

J. G. Wood in Bible Animals tells us: "The same instrument is used even at the present day in parts of the Jewish ritual. One of these instruments is now before me, and is shown in the accompanying illustration. In length it measures eighteen inches, i.e, a cubit, and it is formed entirely in one piece. As far as I can judge, it is made from the left horn of the broad—tailed sheep, which ... is not spiral, but flattish, curved backwards, and forming nearly a circle ... In order to bring it to the proper shape, the horn is softened by heat, and is then modelled into the very form which was used by the Jewish priests who blew the trumpet before the ark."

