
=== Notes for Parents

In our course we pass over the book of Deuteronomy, whose name means "the second law," or the repetition of the law. It is a summing up — through Moses shortly before his death — of the laws which had been given to him for the people, together with a reminder of all the Lord had done for them and a solemn charge to them to keep the law that they might live and prosper, blessed and protected by the Lord — a charge to choose life and good instead of death and evil.

Moses, as we read in the last chapter of Deuteronomy, was permitted to see the Promised Land toward which he had been leading the people, but not to enter it. He was led up to the top of Mount Nebo near their final camp, and there the Lord showed him the whole land spread out below him. Then he died.

He was succeeded by Joshua, who had been his aide throughout the wilderness journey and the leader of Israel's army whenever there was a battle. You have read with the children the Lord's solemn charge to Joshua when he was given command. Joshua fulfilled this charge, and under him the Israelites conquered the Holy Land, were assigned their places in it by lot, and settled in their new homes. This is the story covered by the book of Joshua.

The Jordan River was parted by the Lord for their crossing just as the Red Sea had been, the power of the Lord being this time manifested through the ark which contained the stone tables inscribed with the commandments by the finger of God. Then the people made their camp at Gilgal not far from the strong city of Jericho. There they celebrated the Passover in token of thanksgiving, and there the daily gift of the manna ceased, since they were now able to eat "the old corn of the land."

Then we have our story for today, the striking story of the fall of Jericho. This miracle was performed by the Lord to impress upon the people at the very beginning of their conquest the fact that all their power to conquer was from the Lord and not from themselves. If they obeyed Him, they would always be victorious. If they disobeyed, they would fail. This was later proved to them many times.

The lesson for us all is easy to see. We all hope to find our homes at last in the Promised Land — in heaven. This land is waiting within us to be conquered, but because of our inherited selfishness, it can be won only by a long struggle. The enemies in the land are our natural tendencies to evil. The walled cities are the wrong ideas built up to defend these evils. Of ourselves we could never break down the walls of falsity and overcome our temptations. But if we follow the ark — if we faithfully and persistently keep the commandments, looking to the Lord for strength and trusting in Him — He will give us the victory.

