
=== Senior

The whole sequence of events and their spiritual meaning should be carefully reviewed. The change from the period of reformation to that of regeneration is very important. Emphasis might also be placed on the command to preserve the gold and silver and other metals for the service of the Lord and to destroy everything else in the perverted city.

---
In chapter 2 of Joshua there is the incident of the spies sent by Joshua into Jericho before Israel crossed the Jordan. They were saved by Rahab the harlot, and they promised her that when Jericho fell, she and her family would be spared. We find in our chapter for today that Joshua fulfilled this promise. We note also that the silver and gold and the vessels of brass and iron which were found in Jericho were by the Lord's command saved and devoted to the Lord's service.

When we enter the Holy Land of spiritual living, the first enemy to be overcome is the false ideas about the Lord and spiritual things which we have in our minds. These cannot be overcome by our own power and intelligence, but only by looking to the Lord for direction and strength. This is pictured in the story of the fall of Jericho. We have probably been making preparation for this conquest ourselves, although we may not have recognized it as such. The story of the spies and the command in regard to the metals of Jericho describe part of this preparation. They teach us that the possibilities for good in our natural selfishness must be sought out and saved even when we fully surrender our wills to the Lord's guidance. Swedenborg tells us that there is a type of care for self and a type of self-controlled action and judgment which are good, that care which impels us to develop our capabilities for the purpose of more adequately serving the Lord and the neighbor and that we may study and understand better the Lord's teaching for the sake of obeying intelligently. The spies sent forward to explore Jericho, like those earlier sent by Moses to explore the Holy Land - of whom, we remember, Joshua himself was one — picture our thoughts which go forward and explore the possibilities of regeneration before regeneration actually takes place. The story of Rahab the harlot teaches us to remember that what seems outwardly bad may be inwardly good. We learn in our chapter that not only was Rahab saved but that she continued to dwell among the Israelites. Tradition says that she is the same person (Rachab or Rahab) mentioned in Matthew 1:5 as an ancestress of David. We should, of course, seek to live outwardly orderly lives, but the Lord looks on the heart.

Other preparations for the conquest were the setting up of the stones at Gilgal as a reminder of the Lord's aid (Joshua 4:1-3, 20) and the several incidents described in chapter 5. There we are told that at Gilgal all the males were circumcised, the Jewish symbol of purification and dedication to the Lord, corresponding to our baptism; the Passover was celebrated, the memorial of their deliverance from bondage in Egypt; and on the day after the Passover they began to eat the produce of the land and the manna ceased, picturing a new type of spiritual nourishment, in the production of which we cooperate with the Lord voluntarily. All the incidents inspire and strengthen the new willingness to trust in the Lord, and the conquest of Jericho itself completes the series.

This conquest was accomplished without a struggle on the part of Israel. The ark pictures obedience to the commandments; the trumpets of ram's horn, the voice of the Lord speaking with the power of unselfish love; and the reiteration of the number seven, perseverance in obedience until the holy state of willing service is reached. Then the people were told to shout with a great shout, and the walls of Jericho fell down flat. That is, by this persistent obedience we come into conjunction with the Lord and the walls built up within us by our natural self-esteem and self-love fall down flat, so that we can enter the city "every man straight before him." We are reminded of the fifth Psalm, so familiar to us as part of our morning service: "Lead me, O Lord, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make thy way straight before my face." A more detailed study of the fall of Jericho will be found in the quotation from the Apocalypse Explained below.

