
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The way in which all the incidents of the first weeks of the conquest center about our need for humility and trust in the Lord offers a good opening for discussion. A brief quiz on the events connected with the cities of Jericho, Bethel, Ai, and Shechem may be rewarding. We often think we know our Bible story better than we do. The fate of Achan and his family and the meaning of the ambush toward Bethel are also fruitful topics.

---
We remind ourselves that the conquest of the Holy Land pictures the searching out and conquest of the evils and falsities within ourselves which stand in the way of our being truly heavenly people. There were, we recall, two elements in the Lord's charge to Joshua as found in Joshua 1:6-9: active, courageous attack upon the enemy, and the cherishing of the law. For the carrying out of these charges absolute trust in the Lord's power was essential, and the first incidents in the occupation of the Holy Land were designed to impress this upon the people. It was the ark containing the commandments which led them across Jordan, and the Jordan was parted by a miracle. The twelve stones from the Jordan, representing all the introductory truths, were set up for a memorial at Gilgal, and there they celebrated the Passover, the feast which commemorated their deliverance from bondage in Egypt. Then Jericho was delivered to them by a miracle, the ark again going before them, and they were commanded that none of the spoils of the city be taken for themselves, but that all should be destroyed except the gold and silver and vessels of brass and iron, which should be consecrated to the service of the Lord. We "conquer Jericho" when we see in ourselves and reject the feeling of self-sufficiency and security in wrongdoing which profanes the truth that the Lord alone saves and that we of ourselves are incapable of doing good — a general truth which we must recognize if we are to advance in spiritual living.

Ai, further up in the hills, is the next entrenchment of the enemy to which we come. In @AC 1453, in connection with Abraham's stop between Bethel and Ai on his first passage through the Holy Land, Swedenborg says that Ai represents knowledges of worldly things; and in @AE 655[8] he says that in the opposite sense Ai represents "confirmation of evil," and refers for proof to Jeremiah, 49:3-4. The story of the defeat at Ai and its cause shows us a very common tendency, one to which we are all subject: that is, the tendency to rest satisfied with a general recognition of our weakness and sinfulness, and to feel that this general confession enables us to be safe in choosing our own way. Swedenborg tells us that we should indeed make this general confession sincerely, but that this is not enough. We must go on to search out specific evils in ourselves and look to the Lord for knowledge and strength to overcome them. This is what the Lord tells us in the story of Ai. When we secretly cherish some pet evil, as Achan took what appealed to him most in the spoil of Jericho and hid it in the earth in the midst of his tent, we are confirming that evil in ourselves, and so cannot conquer Ai — which represents just such confirmation of evil. How often children will offer to do anything except the one thing which their parents wish them to do. And grown—up children behave in the same way. They do not think much of the strength of Ai and so do not feel it necessary to fight it with all their might — "make not all the people to labor thither" — and so they fail. The command to keep none of the spoil of Jericho for ourselves means that we are to give up our own desires and thoughts whenever we see that they are not in accordance with the Lord's love and truth. The goodly Babylonish garment pictures the flattering thought that we ourselves are good — perhaps the thought that after all we are pretty good to have chosen to follow the Lord at all when some other people have not. The silver and gold are the truths and the good affections which we ascribe to ourselves.

When we find ourselves yielding to temptation and getting into difficulties, we are likely at first to blame everyone but ourselves - even to blame the Lord. Joshua said, "Alas, O Lord God, wherefore hast thou at all brought this people over Jordan, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us?" But the Lord says to us, as to Joshua, "Get thee up; wherefore liest thou upon thy face? Israel hath sinned." And He tells us in plain language: "Thou canst not stand before thine enemies, until ye take away the accursed thing from among you." The method of discovering the offender is very suggestive. In the first place, it is by lot, the decision being left in the Lord's hands. This tells us that we must examine our lives according to the Lord's truth and not according to any imagined wisdom of our own or of other men. Then the people are brought first tribe by tribe, then family by family, household by household, man by man. This suggests an orderly and thorough self-examination, beginning with general affections and working down gradually to more specific ones until the particular evil which is being cherished is discovered. Swedenborg tells us that we should examine ourselves thus thoroughly before we come to the Lord's Supper. The evil must then be confessed, subjected to the judgment of the Lord's truth and good, and wholly rejected, together with all the evils and falsities which have come from it, as Achan and his whole family were stoned with stones and burned with fire. "And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day" suggests the clinching of the matter with truths from the Word, which will prevent that particular evil from rising within us again and keep us reminded of its consequences.

After the death of Achan, the Israelites went about the conquest of Ai in a very different spirit, looking to the Lord for help and making careful plans. The ambush toward Bethel reminds us of the secret strength from the Lord which is with us when we try to obey Him, just as the horses and chariots of fire were round about Elisha (2 Kings 6:8-17). The apparent flight, as at first, is the humble recognition that we have no strength of our own. The drawing of the enemy out of their city and away from it is the separation of evils from the false reasonings which protect and defend them, so that they may be clearly seen and overcome. As Ai in a good sense represents "knowledge of worldly things," there are goods and truths connected with it, even in its perverted state, which may be singled out and appropriated; so Israel was allowed to take of the spoil of Ai. But the king, the ruling principle of evil, must be put to death, together with all the people.

The conclusion of chapter 8 is especially interesting in connection with the victory of Ai. Israel fulfills the command of Moses by going to the valley between Mount Ebal and Mount Gerizim and renewing the solemn covenant. In order to get the whole picture in the letter we need to read Deuteronomy 27:11-13. In William Worcester's book On Holy Ground there are interesting photographs of the natural amphitheater at this place, and he says of it: "It is a remarkable valley; all travelers who climb the mountain—sides are surprised at the distinctness with which sounds and voices from the city below are heard. At the highest part of the valley there is a recess in the mountain on either side which seems as if made by nature for the gathering of the tribes, six on each side of the valley. Here they listened to the law as Joshua read it, and answered, Amen, from the side of Ebal, to the curses, and from Gerizim, to the blessings." Shechem, which is associated with first instruction in heavenly life, is situated in this valley. There Abraham made his first stop when he came into the Holy Land from Haran. He built his first altar there. Jacob also built an altar there and bought a piece of ground which he afterward gave to Joseph (Genesis 33:18-20; 48:21-22; Joshua 24:32). The bones of Joseph were to be buried there. This is also the site of Jacob's well, on which the Lord sat when He talked with the woman of Samaria (John 4:4-7). The rehearsal of the law and renewal of the covenant, coming as they do between the first victories and the further campaigns, teach us our need of returning regularly to the childlike state of openness to instruction and in this spirit reading the Word, meditating upon it, and renewing our pledges to the Lord as we pass from state to state in regeneration.

