
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
After the summary of previous events, cover the story for the day briefly, and then have the children find on a map all the places mentioned; then look up all the references to previous stories concerning these places. This will help to fix important facts in their minds. They will be interested in the difference between the two attacks on Ai, and in what happened at Shechem. At this age they also need to have the killing of Achan's family explained.

---
When the Lord gave the directions for the taking of Jericho, He told the Israelites that they were to take none of the spoils of the city for themselves. Everybody and everything in Jericho was to be destroyed except the gold and silver and the vessels of brass and iron, and these were to be consecrated to the service of the Lord. Who disobeyed this command?

What did he take?

What happened to the people because of Achan's disobedience?

There are two places mentioned in our story today of which we have read before: Shechem and Bethel. You remember that when Abraham first came down into the Holy Land, he stopped at Shechem and set up an altar there, and then went on and built another altar near Bethel, "having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east" (Genesis 12:6-8). Hai (KJV) is the same as the Ai of our lesson today, and we want to remember that the ambush of which the second chapter of our lesson speaks was laid on the side of Ai toward Bethel. Bethel is also the place where Abraham and Lot separated, and where Jacob had his dream.

What does the word Bethel mean?

Why did the people think they could take Ai easily?

What did Joshua do when his men fled from Ai?

What did the Lord say to him?

How did they find out who was to blame?

Their casting lots made sure that the Lord would point out the true offender. To us it seems very cruel to kill the man's whole family because he had done wrong. People were cruel in those days, and the Lord used this fact to teach us something. When we get into trouble and ask the Lord sincerely to help us find out just what is the wrong thing in our hearts which caused the trouble, the Lord will always show us what it is, and then we must get rid of both it and all the wrong ideas which came from it. This is "Achan's family." Suppose, for example, we find that we have let ourselves become jealous of some friend. Jealousy produces a whole train of bad thoughts about the person. When we acknowledge our jealousy and put it away, we must hunt out the bad thoughts and put them away, too.

Joshua had been overconfident in his first attack on Ai, but he had learned a lesson. So he put his whole army into the second attack and used his head in the planning of it. All the enemies which the children of Israel found in the Holy Land picture bad things which lie hidden in us and have to be overcome one after another. Sometimes when we overcome one temptation, we begin to think we are pretty good, and often it takes a defeat to show us that we need to put all our mind and heart into the battle every time. And we need to look to the Lord for help, too. This is the ambush toward Bethel.

Read Deuteronomy 27:1-8 as a background for understanding the last part of our lesson. Shechem was the very center of the Holy Land. It lay between two mountains, Mount Ebal and Mount Gerizim. There is a natural amphitheater there which is one of the places — like the rotunda of our Capitol in Washington — where one can stand in the center and make even a whisper heard on the sides higher up. So the altar which Joshua set up there was just the place from which to read the law, because the tribes on the slopes of the two mountains on either side could hear.

Shechem was the place where they buried the bones of Joseph, which they had carried with them all through the wilderness journey. Read Genesis 50:25-26 and Joshua 24:32. Another very famous event took place at Shechem hundreds of years later. Read John 4:4-7 (Sychar is the same as Shechem). Shechem was also the center of a revolt in the time of King David.

