
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Center the story for this class around the figure of Achan rather than the attack on Ai. They can get the idea that when we come into difficulties, we should first of all look for what may have been wrong with us, rather than blaming someone else. Show the children why Achan's fault was so serious. They can see it as an illustration of two things they themselves might do: disobey, and hide their disobedience. Achan's sin was not immediately found out, but it led to trouble later which did uncover it, and his punishment was heavy. Disobedience always leads to trouble, and hiding it makes things worse.

---
Do you remember that the spies sent shortly after Israel left Egypt told the people that there were walled cities in the Holy Land which they would have to conquer?

Now Joshua and the people have crossed the Jordan River, which the Lord parted for them just as He had parted the waters of the Red Sea, and they are beginning to attack these walled cities. The first one they captured was Jericho. They did not have to fight to conquer that one. The Lord told them to march around the city, following the ark which the priests carried, once every day for seven days and seven times on the seventh day, and after they had done this, He made the walls of the city fall down flat. And they were told to destroy everything they found in Jericho except the gold and silver and the vessels of brass and iron, and all these they were to devote to the service of the Lord. They were to take nothing for themselves.

Did they all obey?

Who disobeyed?

What had Achan taken?

What defeat did they suffer because of this disobedience?

How did they find out who had done the wrong?

According to the law Achan and his whole family were destroyed.

After that Joshua made careful plans for capturing the city of Ai. He sent part of the fighting men to hide near the west side of the city — on the side toward Bethel. Do you remember anything about Bethel? Then in the morning he led the rest of the army to attack the city. When the men of Ai came out to meet them, they pretended to run away again, and the men of Ai chased them away from the city. Then the men who were hiding came out and took the city and set it on fire, and Joshua and his men turned on their pursuers and attacked and destroyed them. What did they do at Shechem?

Read Deuteronomy 27:1-8 to see why they did this.

This story is one which we should remember because it teaches us that when things do not go as we want them to go, the first thing to do is not to blame other people or the Lord, but to see if we ourselves have done anything wrong.

