
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Two common failings of young people of this age are too much self-confidence and the tendency to underestimate others. Both these failings are illustrated in this story. The necessity of trust in the Lord instead of in self, of occasional thorough self-examination in the light of the Lord's truth, and of trying with all one's might to overcome each fault with the help of the Lord should be stressed.

---
All rivers in the Bible represent moving or living truth of some sort. The Jordan, as a boundary of the Holy Land, represents those basic truths such as the commandments which define the limits of a religious life. At first they seem to be a barrier to the person seeking to lead a truly spiritual life — just as the Jordan stood in the way of the Israelites. But with faith in God and willingness to go forward and try to live according to basic Christian teachings, we find that the Lord opens a way for us — just as He parted the Jordan — and we enter the Canaan of heavenly living without harm. Then the Jordan returns to its normal flow and, spiritually, becomes a protecting force, forever defining for us "the steps of a good man" (Psalms 37:23). The truth will now lead us in battle against our inner foes, but there are certain lessons which need to be impressed upon us at the start. So the first stories in the period of the conquest are all stories warning us against self-confidence. First there is the setting up of the stones from the river bed at Gilgal and the celebration of the Passover there — both reminders of the fact that the Lord is our Savior. Then there is the conquest of Jericho entirely by the Lord's power. The walls fell not under the blows of the Israelites but through the power of the ark. Jericho in the hands of enemies pictures "the profanation of good and truth," and good and truth are profaned when we ascribe them to ourselves once we know better. The Israelites were warned not to take any of the spoils of Jericho for themselves, because we must not retain any of the thought or feeling that we are good or wise if we are to go further in the heavenly life.

Then comes the story of Ai. In this story all the Israelites were threatened with defeat because of the disobedience of one man. This seems hard, but when we study the inner meaning, we recognize it as inevitable. We have all had the experience of failing in some worthy attempt because of some one hasty word or action which revealed a hidden flaw in our motives.

Bethel, the "house of God," where Abraham set up his second altar and where Jacob had his dream, pictures a doctrine or philosophy of life based on knowledge of God and spiritual things. Ai, the twin city of Bethel, pictures a philosophy based on knowledges of the natural world. In @AE 655[8] Swedenborg says that Ai signifies "the knowledges of good and in the contrary sense the confirmations of evil." We all know very well that our natural knowledges can be used either for selfish or for unselfish purposes. When Ai is occupied by the enemy and standing in the way of our approach to Bethel, it must be conquered and its evil inhabitants destroyed. The general meaning of our story is that the false philosophy built upon natural knowledges alone cannot be rooted out so long as we cherish — even in the recesses of our hearts, the "earth of the tent" — anything of the spoils of Jericho, any remnants of the belief that we can achieve the truth for ourselves. The "goodly Babylonish garment" suggests self-righteousness, the attitude which says, "I am wise; everyone who disagrees with me must be foolish or evil." The two hundred shekels of silver and the wedge of gold are the true thoughts and good desires we have for which we take credit to ourselves instead of attributing them to the Lord.

Achan means "troubler." The regenerating life easily discards what is obviously contrary to the commandments, but it is constantly tried and troubled by the pride and self-will which still lurk in the heart and are discovered only when they lead to outward calamity. And when we fail, we are all prone at first to blame the Lord instead of ourselves. "And Joshua rent his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his face ... And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, wherefore hast thou at all brought this people over Jordan?" But the Lord says to us, as to Joshua, "Get thee up; wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face? Israel hath sinned."

The searching out of the hidden sin by means of truth is pictured in the account of the discovery of the "troubler" by a succession of lots. We must examine first our general attitudes, then our attitudes toward more and more specific matters, until we get down to the particular thing which is wrong with us at the moment and destroy it. After Achan was destroyed, Ai was again attacked, but this time there was no self-confidence. The strategy was based on the placing of a large body of men in ambush on the side of the city toward Bethel. Then when the men of the city came out to attack and pursue the Israelites, those in ambush fell upon the city and set it afire, catching the men of Ai between two forces. The company placed in ambush toward Bethel pictures the hidden reserves of strength which come from spiritual knowledge. We by our own reasoning cannot meet the attack of worldly arguments; but reinforced by spiritual knowledge, whose power the worldly minded do not suspect, we can easily conquer. We note that the Israelites were allowed to keep the spoil of Ai. Natural knowledges are useful to us. It is only the principle that they are all-important which must be destroyed.

This victory is properly followed — before any further conquests are undertaken — by the setting up of the altar at Shechem in the center of the land and the proclamation of the law there, with the response of the people to the reading of the blessings and curses. We need again and again to remind ourselves that we stand or fall spiritually according to whether we obey or disobey the Word.

