
=== Adult

The lesson to be stressed is that if we are genuinely trying to obey the Lord and are willing to trust in Him, He will always open the way before us. We should learn to recognize anxiety as a sign that we are trusting in self instead of in the Lord and to see the difference between foresight and worry.

---
Our thought about our lesson for today should be prefaced by refreshing our minds concerning the Passover and its significance. Let us first look up four references: Numbers 9:1-5, Joshua 5:10-12, 2 Kings 23:21-23, and Matthew 26:17-30. These tell us about the first anniversary of the Passover celebrated in the wilderness of Sinai, the celebration of the Passover at Gilgal immediately after the entrance into the Holy Land under Joshua, the celebration of the Passover under Josiah after he found the book of the law which had been lost, and the celebration of the Passover by the Lord on the evening before the crucifixion. These are enough to indicate how necessary it is to have the signification of the Passover clearly in mind if only that we may understand subsequent Bible history. The Passover in general may well be associated in our minds with our thought of "conversion." In some churches much stress is laid on this experience, every effort being made through revivals and other means to lead people to it. In the New Church we recognize the necessity of conversion — of making the decision to turn away from self and toward the Lord — but we do not feel that it must necessarily take some immediate striking outward manifestation. Conversion is only the first step toward regeneration. We are all born natural, and must sometime, if we are to become spiritual, determine of our own free will to break our bondage to natural thoughts and affections and start on our journey toward a heavenly character. The Passover symbolizes this decision. The slaying of the firstborn of the Egyptians pictures the fact that it is impossible that any spiritual life should spring from the natural itself. The passing over of the houses on which the blood of the paschal lamb was sprinkled symbolizes the possibility of spiritual life with those who determine to look to the Lord for knowledge and power instead of to themselves. This decision is indeed a momentous one and we should keep it fresh in our memories, recalling it at the beginning of new undertakings, renewing it after periods of waywardness, and confirming it as we grow older by coming reverently to the Lord's Supper.

The actual feast of the Passover was one of the acts enjoined upon the Jewish Church as part of its representative worship, relating men to the Lord through correspondences during the period when they were actually so far from Him that there could be no interior conjunction. The Lord, when He was upon earth, bridged this gap Himself and reestablished the connection, and by instituting the Holy Supper did away with the need of continuing to keep the Passover. It was after He had eaten of the Passover with His disciples that He took the cup, broke the bread, and bade His disciples "do this in remembrance of me." Swedenborg speaks of this as the last Jewish and the first Christian Passover. That is, the Passover commemorated the deliverance of the Jews from bondage in Egypt, and the Holy Supper commemorates the reality of which that was the shadow — the deliverance of man from bondage to hell by the Lord Himself. The bread of the Lord's Supper takes the place of the flesh of the paschal lamb and has the same significance as the blood of the lamb. The Lord speaks of the bread and wine as His body and blood, and He is called the Paschal Lamb.

The Hebrews by command ate the Passover feast with their loins girded, their shoes on their feet, and their staves in their hands ready to depart from Egypt. We have all experienced the first pleasure that comes with a new resolution, the eagerness to carry it out, and the ideas and plans which spring to the mind while it is in this first state. And we have all experienced the fact that this first enthusiasm does not last. For our resolution marks the beginning of a long period called the period of reformation. Before we can even enter the border of the Holy Land of spiritual living, we have the task of putting our external lives in order according to the Lord's laws. The journey of the Israelites to Canaan represents this period of reformation. The pillar of cloud and fire which led them throughout their forty-year journey represents the letter of the Word which leads and also protects us, both in our daytimes of clear understanding and in our nighttimes of doubt and uncertainty. Swedenborg tells us that the actual pillar was a "choir" of angels with the Lord in their midst. Clouds always picture the letter of the Word; a cloud with fire within it, divine truth from divine love. Moses represents divine law as it connects man with God.

The first great event of the journey of the Israelites was the crossing of the Red Sea. This represents the first practical test of our new determination, the first temptation to be overcome, confirming our decision. It is a vivid picture, and one which our own experience readily verifies. Here are the children of Israel hastening on their way, led by the wonderful pillar. They have left the land of Goshen in haste, but with rejoicing and eagerness and confidence. Suddenly they find the Red Sea blocking their path and at the same time realize that Pharaoh and his chariots and his horsemen are in close pursuit. They must either cross the apparently impassable sea or be captured and brought back to slavery. How often, in some moment of high thought, we make a decision to break the chains of a long-standing bad habit! Almost immediately we are tempted; we realize that the power of our past indulgence is pressing close upon us, that if we do not break this particular temptation now — immediately — we shall slip back into the same old ways; but it seems impossible to take the right way. The story says to us, "Trust in the Lord and go forward. The Lord is with you and will uphold you." The Red Sea pictures an accumulation of evils and falsities which bounds the worldly and selfish life — specifically hell — but when the hand of Moses - the power of divine law — is stretched forth over it, the threatening waters will roll back under the strong east wind of truth from the Lord, and we shall pass over on dry ground — the firm basis of good character.

And once we are across, the very temptation which has been overcome will prove to us that our former bad habit is powerless when we obey the Lord and trust in His help. Pharaoh's army and his horsemen are drowned in the Red Sea. The chariots of the Egyptians are the doctrines of falsity of the natural worldly man; and the chariot wheels, the power of advancing these doctrines against our spiritual purpose. We should remember this story. The conquering of the first temptation after a new good decision is very important. We recall that although the Israelites in the wilderness many times looked back with longing to the "good things" they had enjoyed in Egypt (Numbers 11:5), they never went back.

