
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Emphasize the meaning of the Passover to the Jews and to us and show why the Christian Church celebrates the Holy Supper in its place. These young people will soon be looking toward confirmation and should understand the nature of the decision we are all called upon to make if we wish to be true followers of the Lord. Another good lesson for this age group is the necessity of carrying a good resolution into immediate action and pushing boldly forward, no matter how hard the right course may seem.

---
For us the coming of the Lord into the world to deliver us from slavery to the hells was so great an event that the Christian world counts the years from it, and even non—Christian nations have followed suit. For the Jews the deliverance from bondage in Egypt is the great event which started the development of their nation and their religion. They were told to make the month in which they left Egypt the first month of their year, and they still count their religious calendar on this basis although they also have a secular calendar — still different from ours — according to which they celebrate their New Year in the early autumn. Passover is celebrated from the fourteenth to the twenty-first of the first month of their religious calendar. The Lord came to Jerusalem for the last time on the first day of that week for the purpose of celebrating the Passover. So you may always remember that the Jewish Passover is celebrated during our Holy Week, the week before Easter. And you of course know that the Lord on the night of that last Passover feast instituted the Holy Supper, which takes its place for the Christian Church.

The Passover took its name from the fact that the houses of the Hebrews were passed over by the "angel of death" on the night when the firstborn in Egypt were slain. This was the tenth and last plague, and pictures the final result of a wholly worldly and selfish life — the time when there is no longer any possibility of the development of a living faith. The Passover feast was to be a memorial of the deliverance of the Jews from bondage, and it pictures our acknowledgment of our deliverance from bondage to the world and self. The lamb is the symbol of innocence, and this quality is to be loved and made a part of our lives. The word innocence literally means "harmlessness," and the quality of life it refers to consists in complete dependence upon the Lord for guidance and strength, because we recognize that of ourselves we are constantly inclined to evil. The lamb was to be eaten roasted with fire because love must be the heart of innocence. The unleavened bread of the Passover pictures goodness unmixed with false ideas. The bitter herbs remind us that there will be hardship connected with our journey to heaven. And as the Hebrews were to eat the feast with their loins girded, their shoes on their feet, and their staves in their hands, so we are to be ready to start out actively on this journey to heaven, to put our good resolutions into immediate practice.

The journey of the children of Israel from Egypt to the Holy Land is quite generally recognized as picturing the journey which every person who reaches heaven must take, but the symbolism is seldom carried further than a vague general idea. We see the journey as the gradual renunciation of worldly and selfish standards. It is never an easy journey. Many trials and temptations have to be endured and many enemies overcome before we reach even the border of the promised land of heavenly character. These are pictured by the various experiences of the Israelites in leaving Egypt and in the wilderness. Throughout their whole journey, the Lord led them by means of a pillar of cloud by day and fire by night. Swedenborg tells us that this pillar was actually a company or "choir" of angels with the Lord in their midst. The Lord's angels are messengers of truth, and it is the truth which both guides and protects us on our journey. Thus, the pillar of cloud and fire pictures the Word in its letter with the Lord Himself within it, as it leads us in our spiritual days and nights: our states of confidence and trust (days), and our states of doubt and discouragement (nights).

On this journey we set out boldly. But we have not gone far before the whole weight of our past selfish life catches up with us and tries to drag us back. We are faced by a sea of doubt and disbelief and fear. Our temptation is to give up. The children of Israel said, "Because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness?"

But the Lord speaks to us through Moses: "Fear not, stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord." Our first need is for steadfastness and trust. As the Israelites obeyed, the pillar of cloud and fire went around and stood behind them, between them and the Egyptians, giving light and protection to the one, blocking the path of the other with darkness. The Word is not only our guide in our spiritual journey, but is also our protection from our enemies. The evil cannot see the truth of the Word because, since their minds are turned toward self, it is darkness to them. Read John 3:19-21.

The Red Sea here pictures an accumulation of falsity and evil.

Swedenborg says it pictures hell. The Lord by means of the hand of Moses — the power of divine law — will disperse the barrier if we go forward boldly. First we must stand fast to our purpose and then go forward as the Lord opens the way. And once we have come safely through this first great temptation, we can look back and see how helpless is the enemy which seemed so threatening.


