
=== Junior

The Juniors will remember the stories of the call of Moses at the burning bush and of the plagues. Give them an opportunity to recount what they can of these stories. In this class a little more should be done with the story of the Passover, and the reason for its name should be made clear. Attention should also be called to the command to observe the Passover every year as a memorial. Have the children study a map to see the difference between the two possible routes from Egypt to the Holy Land. The emphasis in the lesson should be put on the need of our going forward courageously on any course we know to be right, trusting in the Lord to help and protect us.

---
The children of Israel had been saved from all the plagues brought upon the Egyptians. But from the tenth and last they were saved in a special way.

Why was the feast they celebrate called the Passover?

How often were they commanded to celebrate this feast?

What did it consist of?

How were they to eat it?

The Lord also told them to change their calendar so that the month of the Passover should be the first month of the year. It was one of the spring months. Their months were governed by the phases of the moon; so they do not exactly coincide with our months, but this first month begins some time in March or April. Many years afterward the Lord was crucified during Passover week. So our Easter is always celebrated just after the Jewish Passover instead of coming on one particular date.

The Lord gave the children of Israel something to lead them on their journey. It was a pillar, a pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night, and it led them for forty years. They were to stop when it stopped and move on when it moved.

Where were they going?

Look at a map of this area. See how much shorter the journey would have been if they could have gone along near the Mediterranean Sea and through the Philistine country. But the Philistines were a strong people with fortified cities, and the Lord knew that the Hebrews were not ready as yet to do any real fighting; so the pillar led them by the longer route. Read Exodus 13:17-18.

The Egyptian people were so glad to see them go that they gave them many things to take with them: gold, and silver, and jewels, and clothing. But Pharaoh was not glad to lose his slaves. After they had left, he changed his mind again.

What else did they take with them? (Exodus 12:37)

They also had many children with them and all their herds and flocks and baggage. You can imagine that they could not travel very fast.

How did Pharaoh pursue them?

Where did he catch up with them?

They seemed to be trapped between the Egyptians and the Red Sea, and of course they had no boats.

Whom did they blame?

What did Moses tell them?

How did the Lord protect them during the night?

What did He tell Moses to do?

What happened?

How did the Israelites cross the Red Sea?

What happened to the Egyptians?

If we trust in the Lord and obey His commandments, His power will always protect us. His truth stands between us and evil just as the pillar of cloud and fire stood between the children of Israel and the Egyptians. We sometimes come to points in our lives when we do not know what to do. Every way seems full of danger. Then we must remember this story of the Red Sea. We must trust in the Lord and obey His commandments and He will open the way before us.

