
=== Notes for Parents

Whenever any one of us realizes that he has become a slave to things of the world, the Lord "calls Moses" to lead him out of Egypt; that is, the Lord brings to his mind things of the Word of God which he has learned in childhood to remind him that his true home is not this world but heaven, and that he must free himself from the bondage into which he has drifted and set his feet once more in the path in which he was started as a little child.

But we know that habits are hard to break. Worldly desires and reasonings try to hold us fast. The bonds can be broken only as we come to see more and more clearly the disaster which surely overtakes the souls of the worldly. Moses brought ten plagues, one after another, upon the Egyptians, until finally Pharaoh knew he must let the Israelites go. The Passover feast, which they celebrated on the eve of their departure, was a feast of thanksgiving to the Lord for their deliverance.

In some churches a great deal of stress is laid upon "conversion," and we are familiar with the programs of revivalists. Conversion means a "turning" in another direction — in religion a turning from self to the Lord. Conversion is necessary. We have to make up our minds to "leave Egypt." But this decision, which in our story is marked by the celebration of the Passover feast, is only the first step on the way to heaven. We all know how often those who have been converted by the emotional appeal of powerful preaching to a responsive crowd very soon "backslide."

The initial decision must be followed by immediate action and then by steady progress in a new way of life, under the leadership of the Word of God, which Moses represents. This is the journey of the Israelites — a long, hard journey — from Egypt to the Holy Land through the wilderness, with the pillar of cloud and fire at their head.

Our story for today is a picture of the first temptation met and overcome in this journey. Pharaoh changed his mind and with his army pursued the Israelites to bring them back to slavery. Have we not all had related experiences? We resolve to break from some bad way of life. We start out full of determination and enthusiasm, but very soon we find all the force of our past habit following and catching up with us. It seems that we cannot possibly escape its power, that we are defeated at the outset. This experience is symbolized by the Red Sea. But Moses, instructed by the Lord, stretched forth his hand over the sea and the waters were divided. If we look to the Lord for help, He will lead us safely through this temptation.

Then the Israelites looked back and saw the pursuing Egyptians swallowed up in the sea. We learn by experience — good experience in this case — that even a seemingly irresistible temptation can be overcome with the Lord's help. Every temptation overcome in His strength shows us the actual powerlessness of the evils we have been serving. The Lord will always open the way for us if we trust and obey Him.

