
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Make the distinction clearly between the first decision to follow the Lord instead of self, signalized by the Passover; the period of reformation of our external conduct, the wilderness journey; and the process of regeneration or opening our hearts to the influx of a new will from the Lord, the conquest of the Holy Land. The correspondence of the actual lesson for the day will carry its own moral.

---
We recall the meaning of the period of bondage in Egypt, which ended with the raising up of Moses to lead the people back to the Holy Land, and we all remember the story of the ten plagues and of Pharaoh's final capitulation when the firstborn were slain. The firstborn is the symbol of faith. When one, like Pharaoh, stubbornly persists in a worldly and evil course, he finally comes into a state in which the very possibility of faith is destroyed. Such a person simply cannot believe in the existence of anything above the material plane. Then the Israelites, who represent the things of spiritual life, are finally driven out, taking with them all that is of real value (Exodus 12:35-36). This is the story from the point of view of the Egyptians.

But we are going with the Israelites. They had been spared all the plagues, but they had seen the terrible havoc wrought by them in the lives of the Egyptians, and they were ready now to follow Moses out of Egypt. To escape the last plague they had to do something themselves as a sign of their willingness to obey the Lord. This was the celebration of the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood of the slain lamb on the sideposts and lintel of their doors.

Let us review the meaning of this feast. The lamb represents pure and innocent affection; and its blood, the true thoughts which spring from that affection. The doorposts and lintel of the house stand for the portals of the mind. The sprinkling of the blood there pictures the safeguarding of the mind from evil by means of true thoughts springing from pure affection. The lamb was to be "roasted with fire" rather than eaten raw or "sodden with water" (boiled), because good must be loved, not merely thought about. The unleavened bread pictures principles of goodness unmixed with old, false ideas, for leaven (yeast) in those days was a bit of old, sour dough saved from former bakings. The bitter herbs are the difficulties which we must be willing to encounter if we are to attain spiritual life. And we are to eat the feast girded for the journey; we must be prepared to start out actively to carry the new principles we have adopted into our daily living. We are also to take with us into the new life all our knowledges of worldly as well as of spiritual things, the jewels of silver and gold and the raiment of the Egyptians.

The Lord's leading of the children of Israel by means of a pillar of cloud by day and of fire by night has a beautiful symbolism. Throughout the Scriptures clouds picture the letter of the Word in which the Lord veils His truth and accommodates it to our feeble sight. We cannot see Him as He is, any more than the physical eye can gaze at the sun. During our states of clear thinking — the daytime — we are led by the Lord through our knowledge and understanding of the Word. At night, in our states of mental darkness, we are led by our faith in the Lord's love. We say, "I don't understand why these things should happen to me or to my loved ones, but I know that the Lord loves me and them; so there must be a good reason." And we try to remain loving and kind in spite of our disappointments, and gradually the night passes and we find that we have made progress. So the Lord leads us both by day and by night. The pillar represents support.

The dramatic incident of the crossing of the Red Sea pictures the overcoming of the first great temptation which one has to face when he makes up his mind to serve the Lord instead of self. It comes early in the journey. How many people, "converted" at revival meetings, succumb to this temptation and go back to their Egyptian bondage as soon as their natural desires "catch up" with them! The sea looks too deep to cross. And indeed we cannot cross it on our own strength. But the Lord's power, the hand of Moses, will make a path for us through the waters if we will but go forward, and after the temptation is past, we look back and wonder why we were so dismayed. We shall have many other trials and temptations, but we have left Egypt, we have tasted victory, and we shall never go back to the old bondage. "For the Egyptians whom ye have seen today, ye shall see them again no more forever."

