
=== Adult

The general lesson here is the reason for our slow progress in spiritual living.

To the end of our lives we have the tendency to say, "I can't help it; I was born that way," to see the beauty of the truly heavenly life but to balk at the effort necessary to attain it. Point out that we always lose when we put off the all-out effort. The topic suggested in the Adult notes is also a fruitful one:

"What is the difference between the Church Universal and the Church Specific, and what is the function of the organized New Church in the world today?" Read @HH 308.

The book of Exodus ends with the setting up of the tabernacle and the descent of the pillar of cloud upon it. The book of Leviticus, with the exception of the account of the consecration of Aaron and his sons in chapters 8 and 9 and the brief incident of Nadab and Abihu in chapter 10:1-7, is entirely given over to laws of all kinds. With the book of Numbers the journey of the Israelites continues. The book takes its name from its first incident, the "numbering" or census of the people by Moses at the command of the Lord; but the name is also descriptive of the character of the book, since "numbering" is predicated of truth and the rest of the book of Numbers describes the testing of the Israelites as to their willingness to follow the truth which had been revealed to them. In our lives it pictures this same period of testing. In the New Church we are brought up to recognize the Word as our book of life. Theoretically we accept this fact. But we do not really "know" any truth until we have learned to practice it and proved it in practice. This is where our real testing begins.

When the cloud was lifted from the tabernacle, the Israelites resumed their march, and we read that after only three days' journey the people began to complain again. Note that this is the same period as the three days' march into the wilderness in the first place. The three days picture fullness of experience on the three planes of life: will, thought, and act. As soon as we bring new truth down into the plane of act, we meet temptation. This time the temptation reached even the higher thought and affection: Aaron and Miriam. 

We may remember the words of the serpent in the Garden of Eden: "Ye shall not surely die" if one ate of the fruit of the forbidden tree. We look about us and see people apparently blessed and happy who are not concerned about obedience to the commandments or worship of the Lord. In chapter 12 it is said that Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because he had married an Ethiopian [or Cushite (from Cush, son of Ham). -Editor] woman. What they said was: "Hath the Lord indeed spoken only by Moses? hath he not spoken also by us?" Ethiopia in a good sense represents interior knowledges of the Word. So this rebellion pictures unwillingness to look to the Word alone for leadership. Miriam's leprosy is a clear picture of the hypocrisy involved in such apparent liberalism or "broadmindedness." 

Finally — not long after this rebellion — the people arrived at Kadesh-barnea near the border of the Holy Land. The place has been almost certainly identified. It is only about forty miles south of Beersheba. In Numbers it is said that the Lord told Moses to send out twelve spies. The account of the same incident in Deuteronomy 1:19-46 says that the people asked that the spies be sent. Both are true. Our natural desire, before we embark on a new venture, is to look ahead and count the cost (Luke 14:28-32), and the Lord also wishes us to do so. But the Lord sees to it that in addition to our natural selfish affections and thoughts we have in us some good and true affections and thoughts represented by Joshua and Caleb. The perceptions which spring from our selfishness see the good qualities of the heavenly life — any rational person, as Swedenborg points out, can see the value of honesty and uprightness in moral and civil matters — but when it comes to a question of attempting the spiritual conquest which would give eternal value to these external virtues, they see only the difficulties in the way. They say, "Is it not enough to be a good moral person and a good citizen? No one can hope to stand against the world or to change his inherited nature." Walled cities represent false systems of thought which have been developed in defense of selfishness, and giants stand for that deep-seated selfishness itself. The giants, we are told, were evil remnants left over from the Most Ancient Church. Selfishness is always the power behind false reasoning. This is again illustrated by the fact that in the time of David, the Philistines - who represent an interest in the truth without a desire to live according to it — sent out one of these atavistic giants as their champion. The arguments stirred up in our minds by evil spirits in our times of temptation always rely on our inherent selfishness as their strongest ally. These arguments are also pictured by the stones with which the people sought to destroy Caleb and Joshua.

When the people realized that because of their cowardly choice they would not be allowed to enter the land but would die in the wilderness, some of them sought to rush forward in spite of the divine prohibition and were overcome by the Amalekites. This is a picture of trying to accomplish by one's own power something which only obedience to the Lord can attain. Such an attempt is ended by the first discouragement. We recall that the Amalekites picture the discouragement which results from distrust of the Lord — they attacked from ambush and chose the stragglers and the weary as their victims (Deuteronomy 25:17-18; Samuel 15:2). We can accomplish nothing spiritually in our own power alone.

The punishment of the people for refusing to take the advice of Caleb and Joshua seems severe. Does it mean that one wrong choice will cut a person off from the possibility of entering heaven? Certainly not. All the Israelites of our story represent things within each of us. Caleb and Joshua are there as the promptings of our higher nature. The children — those under twenty years — are there as the possibilities in us which are undeveloped at the time of any given choice. Moses is there as the principle of obedience to the commandments, which continues to lead us toward the Holy Land. The people who were refused admittance to the Holy Land as a result of their choice are all those thoughts and affections in us which lean toward self and refuse to obey the Lord. They must die one by one in the wilderness. Even Moses, although he was allowed to see the Holy Land from the height of Mount Nebo (Deuteronomy 34:1-4), was not allowed to enter it. We may read the story of the reason for this in Numbers 20:1-13. Literally, Moses at one time exalted himself instead of the Lord in his dealings with the people and so was refused admission to the Holy Land. Spiritually, Moses in us represents obedience to the commandments from a sense of duty, and this often has in it something of self-praise. We do not actually enter the Holy Land until external obedience to the commandments has become a habit of which we no longer think with pride.

In Deuteronomy 2:14 we read that thirty-eight years passed after the first sojourn in Kadesh—barnea before the children of Israel were again brought to the border of the Holy Land prepared to enter it. It sometimes seems to us that we shall never reach the free and happy state which is promised to those who patiently seek to obey. The Lord alone sees the heart and knows when we are ready. We are told that He never allows us to be tempted beyond our strength to resist, if we will, and that He withholds temptations altogether from those who are not willing to attempt the conquest. Our spiritual strength is developed and tested little by little. If we can believe that the Lord is leading us, and if we can look upon every such testing as an opportunity for spiritual development, our progress will be much more rapid and easy. The constant murmurings and complaints of the children of Israel in the wilderness are recorded in the Word to show us in concrete form the folly of our own discontents and rebellions. And the patience of the Lord through all their weaknesses should help us to see and acknowledge His patience with us.

