
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The need of going forward courageously in the overcoming of our weaknesses and temptations is important for children of this age. They are willing enough to make great efforts in games and skills, but inclined to think their studies and their home chores too hard. We can do nothing unless we try. The correspondence of the fruits, of the walled cities, and of the giants should be discussed.

---
When the ark was actually made and placed in the finished tabernacle, the pillar of cloud and fire "rested" on the tabernacle. Aaron and his sons had been consecrated to the service of the tabernacle, and the people could begin to observe all the laws which had been given to them. These laws are recorded in the books of Exodus and Leviticus. Then Moses was told by the Lord to number the people. This numbering or census is the first thing recorded in the book of Numbers, and gives the book its name. After the numbering, each tribe brought an offering of silver according to its numbers. Moses was also told to make two trumpets of silver which were to be used to call the people together and to start them on the march. In Numbers 10:11-12 we are told: "And it came to pass on the twentieth day of the second month, in the second year, that the cloud was taken up from off the tabernacle of the testimony. And the children of Israel took their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai: and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran."

Do you think that the children of Israel now went forward bravely and cheerfully? On the contrary: within a very few days they were complaining again and had to be punished to bring them to their senses. We read in Numbers 11:4-6: "And the mixed multitude that was among them fell a lusting: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat? We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic; but now our soul is dried away; there is nothing at all, beside this manna, before our eyes." The rest of the chapter tells what came of their complaining, and chapter 12 tells how even Aaron and Miriam rebelled against Moses; and the Lord, in order to show the people their true leader, struck Miriam with leprosy and then cured her at Moses' request.

Then comes our lesson for today. The people reached a place called Kadesh, not far from the border of the Holy Land. When they camped here, the Lord told Moses to choose a man from each of the twelve tribes, and send the twelve to spy out the Holy Land to "see the land what it is; and the people that dwelleth therein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many; and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad; and what cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents or in strongholds; and what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether there be wood therein or not." And they were to bring back some of the fruit of the land.

This, too, is a picture of something that happens to us. However clearly the Lord shows us what we ought to do, our natural selfishness always hesitates and rebels. We can look back afterward and wonder how we could have been so foolish, but at the time, all we see is that we are not having just what we want at the moment. And we have to be reassured as to whether the heavenly life is really as happy a life as the Lord tells us it is. Our thoughts spy it out, just as the twelve chosen men did. And they bring back the same kind of report. They all recognize that the Holy Land is a beautiful country. And the Lord even permits us to taste the fruit of the land. When we have really done something good without thinking about ourselves at all, don't we usually feel very happy and lighthearted for a while? This is the taste of the fruit of heavenly living. It is said of the spies, "And they came unto the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and they brought of the pomegranates, and of the figs." They all called it a "land flowing with milk and honey." Milk represents the truth in which there is goodness; and honey, the happiness which comes from such truth.

But our thoughts, like the spies, also bring back word that there are many enemies in the land, and strong walled cities, and even giants. When we think of really living a heavenly life, we immediately begin to see all our faults which we shall have to fight, the wrong ideas we shall have to correct, and the natural, selfish desires deep down in our hearts which will rise up like giants in our way. We should know that the giants mentioned several times in the Old Testament were an evil remnant of the Most Ancient Church and picture our deep inherited selfishness. The children of Israel were not particularly brave people. We, too, sometimes forget that the Lord has promised to help us, even though there is always something in us to remind us of this fact, just as Joshua and Caleb reminded the Israelites that "if the Lord delight in us, then he will bring us into this land." We draw back sometimes, just at the time when a little more effort would have given us the victory.

What happens to most of us is just what happened to the children of Israel. It takes a long, long time to get rid of our faults. Deuteronomy 2:14 tells us that it was thirty-eight years after the time of our lesson that the Israelites finally reached the point when all the men who had a part in the decision of our lesson — "all that were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, which have murmured against me" - had died. All our weak, selfish thoughts and feelings must be given up before we can really enter the Holy Land. Those who were under twenty years of age at the time were not held responsible. They represent the new and more trusting thoughts which are gradually being developed in our minds as we learn more and more of the Lord's care and protection over us. They were the ones who entered the Holy Land under Joshua. Joshua and Caleb were the only ones of the older generation still living to see that day. Caleb represents the things in us which are fit for heaven, and Joshua — who was to be their leader after Moses — represents the truth fighting. We shall soon learn more about him.

