
=== Junior

With this class review the wilderness journey by the use of a map. Be sure they get the general features of the journey clearly in mind, as well as the reason why they had to wander so long before they were ready to enter the Holy Land. Remind them that they could travel only when the pillar of cloud and fire was moving before them, and had to stop whenever it stopped. This class can easily see the general correspondence of the lesson.

In addition to the detailed instructions for building the tabernacle which the Lord gave to Moses in Mount Sinai, the Lord filled two men (Bezaleel and Aholiab) with wisdom and skill in workmanship, so that they would know just how to make the ark and the tabernacle. Read Exodus 35:30-35.

After the ark and the tabernacle had been made, the pillar of cloud led the people to a place called Kadesh near the northern edge of the wilderness. Here they were close to the southern border of the Promised Land, and at the Lord's command they sent spies to explore it and bring back a report of it.

How many spies were there?

How long were they gone? What did they bring back?

The spies all agreed that the land of Canaan was a good land, "a land flowing with milk and honey." Yet they were not in agreement as to their advice.

Which two differed from the others?

What did these two advise?

Why did they think the people would be strong enough to overcome the giants and the great walled cities?

Whose advice did the children of Israel follow?

What was their punishment?

What happened to the ten cowardly spies?

What was the reward of Joshua and Caleb?

The journey which the children of Israel were making is a picture of the journey each one of us is making when we decide that we want to serve the Lord instead of ourselves. The land of Canaan — the "Promised Land" — is a picture of heaven or of the heavenly character we must have if we are to enjoy living in heaven when we die. Do we always move straight ahead toward this kind of character? No, we often act selfishly and weakly, and delay our progress.

The Israelites of old were very much like we are today. They murmured against Moses because they had no meat to eat, and wanted to go back to the flesh—pots of Egypt. They were not satisfied with the manna which the Lord gave them every day. The Lord satisfied their craving by sending quails again, but with them came a plague which killed many of those who had complained. At another time Aaron and Miriam, the brother and sister of Moses, became jealous of him and talked against him. Miriam was punished by becoming a leper, until Moses prayed to the Lord to heal her. We have to recognize the bad things in our characters and acknowledge them before we can make any real progress toward heaven.

The Lord wants us to choose the right way freely. He never asks us to go ahead blindly. So He commanded the children of Israel to send spies to bring a report of the Holy Land. They brought back wonderful reports of the land itself, but also frightening reports of its inhabitants. We can all see that heaven is a beautiful place where we should like to be. But we must also know that it is not easy to attain. There are giants in ourselves — love of having our own way, greediness, envy of those who have more than we have, laziness — which must be overcome before we can enjoy heaven. And there are walled cities — all the arguments which support and excuse our wrong desires. We cannot overcome these by ourselves, but the Lord can give us victory if we go forward trusting in Him.

