
=== Notes for Parents

Before the children of Israel came to Sinai, they were a mere horde of men, women, and children, uprooted from the homes in which they had grown up, and facing a wild and strange life, with no one but Moses to tell them what to do, and no knowledge of the way before them except that they were to follow the pillar of cloud and fire. In the eleven months that they stayed encamped on the plain before Mount Sinai, they were organized into a nation, given laws by which they were to be governed — not only the ten commandments, but also laws for every little thing — provided with directions for their worship and a place in which to worship, told just how each tribe was to march and how to camp, and provided with a priesthood and with lesser judges to settle all their minor questions. This is a picture of the formation of an orderly life. If we understand our Bibles, we can see in each one of these strange laws something which applies to our spiritual life. The Lord had given the children of Israel everything they needed except the one thing he could not give them — the love of doing right. Isn't this true of us, too? We all have by gift of the Lord the means of knowing what we ought to do from day to day, but each one of us has to choose freely whether he will obey the Lord or not. The Israelites had not gone three days further on their wanderings before they were again murmuring against Moses and complaining of the kind of food given them to eat, and asking to go back to Egypt.

Then after a short time they came in sight of the Holy Land, the land their ancestors had possessed and which they had been promised by the Lord. Heaven is often called the Promised Laud, and we know that it is where each one of us really belongs; but do we always keep steadily on the way to it? The Israelites were told to send twelve men, one from each tribe, to spy out the land and bring them back a report of it. That is just what we do when we think about heaven and try to find out what it is like. And the report is always that it is a beautiful land, a land "flowing with milk and honey." We are even allowed to taste little bits of heaven once in a while in our lives. But we also see the false ways of thinking we shall have to overcome, like the walled cities, and the giants of selfishness in our hearts which will stand in our way. So often, just like the Israelites, we say, "Oh, I never could really be good — it would be too hard work. I'll wait until some time when it looks easier." And, like the Israelites, we have to wander in the wilderness until all those weak, cowardly feelings and thoughts in us die out. We forget that the Lord will always help us if we really try. Now that the children have had this lesson, you can remind them of it whenever they complain that their lessons are too hard or that they are not able to do the things you ask them to help you with at home. Children need this lesson, but so do all of us.

