
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
A good discussion topic for this class is the origin and correspondence of the giants in the land, and also the mention of the walled cities in the same connection. Point out that our deep-seated selfishness always tries to justify itself and so builds up systems of falsity. It also turns truth into falsity.

---
The book of Numbers takes its name from the fact that the first incident recorded in it is the numbering or census of the people by Moses at the command of the Lord. We saw in our lesson on the Garden of Eden that to "name" a thing represented judging its quality. Swedenborg says that to "number" is always predicated of truth. So it was fitting that after all the laws had been given to the Israelites at Sinai, they should be numbered — that is, examined as to their possession of truths. The numbering was carried out by tribes, only the men fit for war being numbered; and afterward an offering of silver was brought by the heads of the tribes. This was in accordance with the law given in Exodus 30:12-13, which means that we are not to count up our knowledge and understanding without recognizing that we owe all we have to the Lord. In the Gospels we read, "Which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?" (Luke 14:28) That the mere giving of the laws did not make over the children of Israel was evidenced by the fact that at their first camping place, three days' journey from Sinai, it is recorded that they murmured again and were punished, and a little later even Aaron and Miriam rebelled against Moses and had to be taught a lesson of obedience all over again. It is after these incidents that they were led to camp at Kadesh, near the border of the Holy Land, and Moses was commanded to send out twelve spies to look through the Holy Land and bring back a report of it.

The story of the spies is a searching one in a very real sense. If the people had been willing to believe and trust the Lord, they might have entered the Holy Land at once and possessed it, but the Lord knows that trust and obedience are developed only through long experience: "For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little" (Isaiah 28:10). So it is always provided that we have opportunities to "search" the land before we try to enter it. We must see clearly the enemies which are in the land (the faults in ourselves which we will have to overcome) and we must also see clearly the advantages of heavenly living (we must have a taste of the fruits). Conquering our external bad habits is like overcoming the enemies in the wilderness, but the real work comes when we face the evils which lie deep within ourselves.

Our perceptions, like the spies, go on ahead of us to search the land. They bring back the report that it is a good land, a land "flowing with milk and honey," rich in spiritual instruction and the happiness which goes with it. They bring back one enormous bunch of grapes — one experience, perhaps, of what it means to be genuinely good — and also pomegranates and figs — knowledge of good and truth, and experiences of natural goodness. But they show us that we have to live in a world full of strongly entrenched false ideas (walled cities) and even that we shall have to overcome the giants of self-love and self-intelligence.

Then comes the choice. All that is good and wise in us, like Caleb and Joshua, prompts us to trust the Lord and go forward. But our baser impulses say, "I am not strong enough; I was born as I am: I cannot change; I would rather go back to Egypt." Read carefully verses 1 to 10 of chapter 14. The arguments with which we try to quiet the voice of conscience are the stones the congregation wanted to throw at Caleb and Joshua. Remember this when you are tempted to put off the effort to live a really good life. Every time we put it off, the journey becomes longer and harder.

What was true of the Israelites is true of us: We cannot enter the Holy Land until all our weak, cowardly, selfish thoughts have been put away. And when the Lord sees that we are not strong enough to do this, He makes us wait. We cannot rush ahead in our own strength, as some of the Israelites tried to do when they realized what was before them. If we are not willing to obey the Lord, the first enemy we meet will overcome us. But if we follow the pillar of cloud and fire patiently, the time will come when we find that all our foolish thoughts have one by one been left behind us.

