
=== Adult

After the general meaning of the story, possible points of special interest may be the reason for going to Haran for wives, the reason why Isaac himself was not allowed to go there while Jacob was, and the meaning of "angel."

We recall that when Isaac grew up, Abraham sent his servant to Haran to find a wife from among his own kindred, and that the servant brought back Rebekah, the granddaughter of Abraham's brother Nahor. Isaac and Rebekah had twin sons, Esau and Jacob. They represent the will and the understanding on the natural plane. Swedenborg says (@AC 1893): "There are in every man an internal man, a rational man that is intermediate, and an external, which is properly called the natural man. With the Lord these were represented by Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob." The Abraham stage with us is our infancy, when the internal man is open to the heavens and is filled by the Lord with "remains" - innocent, trustful, happy states which can later be used in our regeneration. Then we develop into the rational, or Isaac, stage; and finally we are ready to carry out in everyday life the knowledges and affections which we have developed in the previous stages. The rest of our lives is spent, if we regenerate, in bringing into order first this natural or external plane and then successively the rational and the internal plane. So, although Abraham and Isaac come first and in one sense are higher than Jacob, their descendants are called the seed of Jacob or the children of Israel (Israel being Jacob's later name) and their history occupies the rest of the Old Testament. Esau was the firstborn, and we readily recall the story of how Jacob cheated him first of his birthright and then of his blessing. Esau was the firstborn of the twins because Esau represents the will; Jacob, the understanding; and the will actually comes first. All power is from the will, even the power to think. But throughout most of our lives Jacob supplants Esau because we have to learn what is right before we can do it. It is only late in life that Esau begins to break off the yoke of his brother — that is, when by long practice in doing the truth we finally come to love what is good. Esau and his descendants (the Edomites) play only a small part in the Bible narrative. This is because that narrative is concerned with our life in this world, when for the most part we must be under the guidance of truth.

After Jacob had stolen Esau's blessing, Esau threatened to kill him, and his mother Rebekah persuaded Isaac to send him to Haran to find a wife from the family of her brother Laban. We recall that Haran was the place where Abraham and his family stopped for a time on their journey from Ur to Canaan, that Abraham's brother Nahor settled there, and that Abraham's father, Terah, died there. Terah represents the old, idolatrous state; and Haran, the first stage of our progress toward a really good life, before we have reached any real understanding of the truth. That is, Haran represents good and truth of a very external kind, or goodness in an obscure state. Yet this simple goodness is the beginning of all our spiritual progress, and we must constantly be going back and renewing in ourselves this fundamental desire to "be good." Abraham was told by the Lord on no account to allow Isaac himself to go back to Haran; yet Jacob was sent there and spent twenty years there. The reason for this is found in the difference in correspondence between Isaac and Jacob. Isaac represents the true rational, which must remain in the Holy Land of spiritual thinking and lift external and natural knowledges up to itself, as Rebekah was brought out of Haran to the Holy Land to Isaac. Jacob, on the other hand, represents the Lord's working on the natural plane of our lives; so he necessarily must spend a great deal of time in Haran and must unite himself to affections on that plane. We live on the natural plane of thought most of the time. In that plane we try to do right, to distinguish between right and wrong, to form good habits, and gradually to bring that plane up to the level set by the Lord's own example when He lived in the flesh. This is Jacob living in Haran, marrying there, having children, and accumulating flocks and herds — but always with the knowledge that eventually he was to take them all back with him to the Holy Land.

Jacob knew he was to come back to the Holy Land because the Lord told him so in the dream which is the subject of our lesson for today, and at the same time the Lord promised him that land for his inheritance. This dream was given him at Bethel. Bethel, the site of the second altar which Abraham built after he entered the Holy Land, pictures a heavenly state in which there is knowledge of celestial things. Jacob's tarrying here is a picture of spiritual preparation for daily life. It was toward evening — the end of the former state — and he took some of the stones of the place for his pillows and lay down to sleep; that is, he rested upon fundamental heavenly truths, and his consciousness of worldly things was for a time suspended. Then he saw the vision of the ladder or "way" reaching from earth to heaven, with the Lord at the top and the angels ascending and descending upon it; and the Lord spoke to him, promising him protection and favor.

Jacob's dream is always a beautiful and appealing picture, and it is all the more beautiful when we see its deeper meaning. What is the "way" which connects earth with heaven and the Lord? It is the Word. Its letter is made up of things of earth and is read and learned by us while we are upon this earth. But within and above the letter are meanings, higher and higher — first about the history of man as a race, then about the development of each one's soul, then about the angels and their life — and highest of all about the Lord's own life and work. From the letter our thoughts can ascend gradually to some knowledge of the Lord Himself; and once we have gained this knowledge, the Lord's spirit and teaching can reach down to us and instruct us even in the little things of life on earth. Perhaps we recall that angel means "messenger." In the Old Testament the same word is used of earthly and of heavenly messengers, and Malachi, the name of the last book of the Old Testament, means "my messenger." The same is true of the Greek word used in the New Testament. Literally, John the Baptist sent "angels" to the Lord to ask if He really was the Messiah. Can we not see our thoughts — like messengers from our minds — climbing up by means of the Word to the Lord, and his thoughts — like messengers — coming down to us through it? We are at the bottom; the Lord is at the top. And if we listen to the Word, we can hear the voice of the Lord telling us that the Holy Land of heavenly life is meant for us, and that He is with us and will keep us wherever we go. But in order to have this vision, we must be in a state in which we rest on the foundation truths of our faith and put our concern for ourselves and the world to sleep.

Jacob needed this vision to keep him from becoming absorbed in the life of Haran. We need it to keep us mindful that heaven is our real home, and to keep us from becoming absorbed in the duties, cares, and pleasures of everyday life in the world. And when Jacob awoke, realizing that he had been granted a vision of the Lord, he set up the stone upon which he had rested as a pillar and poured oil upon it and vowed to serve the Lord and to give Him a tenth of all he should possess. This is a picture of what our reaction should be to the realization that the Word is our means of connection with the Lord. In our lives we should set up the simple, fundamental truths — the Commandments — as our testimony that we are to serve the Lord, and we should put love into the keeping of them, as Jacob poured oil on the pillar. And we should promise to obey the Lord, to worship Him, and to make everything that we have holy, recognizing that it comes from Him, by using it as He would have us use it; this is pictured by the giving of tithes.

