
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The spiritual meaning of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob should be taught at this point, as well as the general meaning of Jacob's journey and the particular correspondences of the dream. Stress Jacob's need of this encouragement, and our need of the Word to strengthen us for our daily living.

---
Isaac and Rebekah had twin sons, Esau and Jacob. Esau was the firstborn, but it was Jacob through whom Abraham's line was to descend. Esau and Jacob were not identical twins, and they did not get along well together. Jacob had to be sent away to escape the anger of Esau, whom he had tricked. Jacob's journey grew out of this incident, but it was also planned that he, like his father, should take a wife in Haran.

The journey was a long one for a young man to take alone, and there were no hotels along the way as there would be today. Jacob slept outdoors wherever he happened to be when night fell. From his words near the end of our chapter, we know that when he lay down to sleep at Bethel he was not feeling very confident about the future. But the dream showed him that the Lord was watching over him, and gave him new courage.

Bethel was one of the places where Abraham built an altar when he first came into the land, and it was also the place where Abram and Lot decided to separate and from which they looked over the land so that Lot might choose the part he preferred. It is called Bethel throughout the Bible story, but apparently the name was actually given it first by Jacob. Bethel means "house of God." The stones which Jacob took for his pillow picture truths, the foundation truths of the Word on which we may rest with confidence. And in the morning Jacob set up these stones for a pillar to mark the place where the Lord had encouraged him and given him a promise and where he also had made a promise to the Lord. Both these promises were kept.

The ladder is the most striking part of the story. The Hebrew word translated "ladder" means a "way" — the translators evidently assumed that a way from earth to heaven must be a ladder, especially since the angels were said to be ascending and descending on it. And the word translated "angel" means "messenger." Can you think what is the "way" by which our angels or messengers go up to the Lord and His angels come down to us? It is the Word. The angels are our thoughts and the Lord's thoughts. The foot of the way is on the earth. That is, the Word is written in human language and in terms of things we can understand. But the Lord is at the top. Jacob's lying down to sleep on stones of the place is a picture of our trusting in what we have learned of the Lord even when we feel alone and afraid. But after his dream, Jacob set the same stones up for a pillar of remembrance and poured oil on them. When we really see how the Word connects us with the Lord, we go forward without fear and we love to think of the truth He has given us. Oil corresponds to love. The custom of "anointing" or pouring oil upon something to signify that it was holy had come down from the times of the Ancient Church, when men knew correspondences. We shall find many instances of it in the Word, and even in our own day it is a part of the ceremony carried out in the coronation of kings and queens.

In the dream the Lord made a promise to Jacob, and Jacob - after he woke and set up the pillar — made a solemn vow to the Lord. This exchange of promises is a "covenant." The Lord's promise is made to all of us just as much as to Jacob, and if we make Jacob's vow and keep it, the Lord will fulfill His promise to us as surely as He did to Jacob. Sometimes people wonder why the Lord should have prospered Jacob, who was obviously such a faulty person. But the story should encourage us very much, for it shows that if we study the Word and try to live according to its precepts, then we too — who are full of faults — can eventually reach our heavenly home, and that the Lord is always close to us trying to show us the true way.


