
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The meaning of the "ladder" can easily be taught to children of this age, and they will find it a new and striking way of thinking of the Bible. The correspondence of stones and of oil can also be given. Have them locate Beersheba, Bethel, and Haran on a map. By now they should be able to recall the past events connected with Haran and Bethel. Be sure they know the meaning of the word "angel." Have them look up the last book in the Old Testament and tell them the meaning of its name.

---
Isaac and Rebekah had twin sons, Esau and Jacob. Jacob was the one through whom the Hebrew nation was to be carried on; so Isaac sent him also to Haran to find a wife. He traveled all alone, and we find that when he started, he was not even sure that he would be able to find food and clothing.

How did the Lord encourage him?

Where was he when he had this wonderful dream?

Who had built an altar there a long time before?

What story have we had about something that happened at Bethel? Bethel means "house of God."

Why do you think Jacob named it that?

Can you tell the story of Jacob's dream? The Hebrew word translated "ladder" means a "way of steps." Jacob was lying on the earth with his head on a stone.

Who was at the top of the ladder?

Who were going up and down on it?

The word translated "angel" means "messenger."

Do you know that there really is a "way of steps" between us and the Lord? We are on the earth living every day, working and playing and going to school. And we think of the Lord as in heaven. But every time we read the Bible our thoughts go up toward the Lord and His thoughts come down to us. The Bible is our "Jacob's ladder." Stones on which things are built represent truths. The stones at the foot of Jacob's ladder are the truths we learn in the Bible. Our thoughts are the "angels" or messengers going up, and the Lord's thoughts are the angels coming down. How did Jacob feel about his dream?

What did he do to mark the place?

What did he pour on the stone?

The people of Jacob's time knew from tradition — that is, from things which had been passed down from father to son for many centuries — that there was something holy about olive oil, and that to pour it on anything meant to make the thing holy. This was called "anointing." People in the beginning knew that oil meant love and that all true love comes from the Lord. When we do anything for someone, if we put love into the doing, the Lord is in it through us, and the service is holy. We want to remember what anointing means and why, because we shall have many cases of it in our study of the Bible. Do you know the twenty-third Psalm? Look it up and read verse 5.

What did the Lord promise Jacob?

What did Jacob promise the Lord?

Both these promises were kept.

