
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Teach the children the three names in the series Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. We can try also to teach them Haran and Bethel, which should be somewhat familiar from earlier stories. There will be no trouble in interesting them in the story of the dream, and they will probably be able to repeat it. Emphasize the fact that the Holy Land was the real home of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, so that Jacob hated to leave it and was looking forward to coming back.

---
It will also be a good thing to have them learn the names of the wives of Abraham and Isaac. Particularly connect Jacob's setting up of the stones after his dream with Abraham's building an altar at the same place. Tell them that Bethel means "house of God."

Isaac grew up to become a great man, as his father had been. His wife's name was Rebekah, and she was the granddaughter of Abraham's brother Nahor, who had settled in a place called Haran.

Isaac and Rebekah had twin sons, Jacob and Esau, You know that most twins look very much alike. But Jacob and Esau were very different in looks and also in character, and they didn't get along well together. So when they grew old enough, Isaac and Rebekah thought it would be a good thing to separate them for a while.

They sent Jacob to Haran to visit his uncle Laban. They hoped, too, that he would find a wife there. Abraham and Isaac had both been told by the Lord that they and their family ought not to marry any of the women who lived about them in the land of Canaan, because these women worshiped idols instead of the Lord.

The journey to Haran was a long journey for young Jacob to take alone, and he was not very sure that he would be safe on the way and would be able to find enough to eat. And then, too, Jacob loved his own home and wanted most of all to be sure he would return to it.

What was one of the places where Jacob stopped for the night?

What did he use for a pillow?

What did he see in his dream?

What did the Lord tell him?

How did Jacob feel when he woke?

What did he call the place?

Bethel means "house of God."

What did Jacob do with the stones he had used for his pillow?

Do you remember someone else who had built an altar at Bethel?

What did Jacob promise the Lord?

The dream gave him courage for the long journey, because it showed him that the Lord was near him all the time and watching over him. The Lord is near us all the time, too, watching over us and taking care of us.

And we, too, have a Jacob's ladder which connects us with Him. Do you know what it is?

It is the Word.

When we study the Word, our thoughts go up to the Lord and the Lord's thoughts come down to us, just like the angels ascending and descending on the ladder.

Do you know that the word angel means "messenger"?

