
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The deeper meaning of Jacob in relation to Abraham and Isaac is especially useful for young people of this age, as well as the need of going back to Haran to renew our childlike good intentions, but with a view always to becoming more and more serviceable to the Lord — coming back to the Holy Land.

---
This is one of the most striking and best—loved stories in the Bible. The picture is so clear that it has inspired artists: Jacob lying on the ground with his head on the stone, the shining ladder or "way" stretching up to heaven, the bright forms of angels ascending and descending on it, and a suggestion of the Lord's figure in the radiance at the top.

In the inner meaning the vision is still more beautiful. We know that stones represent truths. Truth is sometimes hard, yet we can always depend upon it. When we are in doubt or fear and are entering upon a new course which may bring us into difficulties and dangers, we can have confidence in the truths which we have learned from the Word, knowing that if we keep the Commandments with a desire to serve the Lord, we shall be given strength to meet whatever comes. In the series Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Abraham represents the time when we are very little children, trusting wholly in our parents and knowing no law except obedience to them; Isaac represents the time when our reasoning faculty is developing and we are trying to decide what is right and wrong according to what we can learn from the Word with the help of our parents and teachers; and Jacob represents the time when we are beginning our independent lives, not perhaps entirely grown up yet, but no longer directly under our parents' control and guidance. So this journey of Jacob in its inner meaning comes very close to the experience of young people just leaving home for college or just beginning to earn their living. At this time we look forward eagerly to the future and yet we are a little anxious, a little fearful of our own powers, and in the back of our minds is the wish for assurance that someone is taking care of us still. We need Jacob's dream to encourage and sustain us.

What is our "way" from earth to heaven? It is the Word of God, which connects earth with heaven and man with God. Its foot is on the earth, the letter of the Word, written in human language about the earth and the people on it. At the top of the way is the Lord: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God." What are the angels? We remember that the word "angel" means "messenger." Every time we open the Word with a sincere desire to learn of the Lord, our "angels" begin to come down to us. And it was during the dream that the Lord spoke to Jacob and promised him that he should return to his land in time and that the land would be his. As we read the Word, its promises speak to us clearly, telling us that if we are faithful heaven will be ours, whatever our experiences in life may be.

When Jacob woke in the morning, his first reaction was awe.

He realized that the Lord was not far away and unheeding, but present with him and watching over him. He promised to serve the Lord, and he set up the hard stones on which he had been lying as a pillar of remembrance and a witness of the covenant between himself and the Lord. In the same way, when we have once had a vision of what is in the Word, the truths of the letter stand in our minds as assurances, proved by experience. And we, like Jacob, "pour oil upon them"; that is, we love them and think of them as holy, and begin to yield willing service instead of obedience prompted by self-interest, in hope of reward or fear of punishment. Jacob's promise to give the Lord a tenth of all he received represents acknowledgment that all we have is from the Lord and should be used in His service. This is the meaning of the "tithe," which has played a prominent part in church finances even to this day.

We should learn to remember, whenever we seem to be alone and facing difficulties and perhaps dangers, that the Lord is really close to us, and that we can see Him if we go to His Word, lift our thoughts to Him, and try to learn what He has to say to us. Jesus, as He was about to leave His disciples, said: "Remember! I will be with you always, to the end of the age." (Matthew 28:20)

