
=== Adult

The effort has been made in the Adult notes to cover the major questions which people ask concerning the Lord's crucifixion and resurrection. It is suggested that the teacher ask the class for questions to begin with and take up whatever phase of the story the questions suggest. The teacher should of course be prepared, if there are no immediate questions, to outline briefly the events of Holy Week and then discuss the meaning of the resurrection for the world and for the individual.

We should not pass from the Palm Sunday to the Easter lesson without having clearly in mind the events of the last week of the Lord's earthly life and their general significance. The week began and ended in triumph, but in between — in the space of a few short days — came the culmination of the evil states of the church and the Lord's last and deepest temptation, which was the longing to save men even against their wills.

The first two days of that week the Lord spent teaching in the temple, unhesitatingly exposing the worldliness and hypocrisy of the scribes, Pharisees, and priests. At night He went out to Bethany and lodged with Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus. On Thursday evening He came into the city again and ate the Passover feast with His twelve apostles. At that feast He laid the ritual basis for the transfer of His presence to the Christian Church by instituting the Holy Supper to take the place of all the sacrifices and feasts, telling His apostles plainly that it was a symbol of His own sacrifice, and that they were to observe it in recognition of the fact that He gave His life for them: "This do in remembrance of me." He also told them that the bread represented His body and the wine His blood. We recall that the paschal lamb represented innocence, which is the good of love to the Lord, and that its blood sprinkled upon the doorposts represented divine truth applied to life. The Lord is love and wisdom, His body representing His love and His blood His wisdom or truth. The bread and wine of the Holy Supper have the same representation. So when we partake of the Holy Supper we are testifying to the fact that we recognize that all good and truth are the Lord's, and expressing our wish to receive them from Him.

We are told that throughout the period of the ancient Jewish Church the Lord was present in the world through the correspondence of their worship, because the interior life of men was so perverted that He could no longer be conjoined to them in any interior way. But by His life on earth He put in order the spiritual forces which had been perverting man's internal life and so opened the way to genuine conjunction. From that time on, it was no longer necessary for men to observe the detailed rituals of that church, since they could live out the Lord's love and truth in their daily lives in affection, thought, and conduct. But still some formal, periodic recognition and worship are necessary to keep ever in our minds our dependence upon the Lord, to keep us from setting ourselves up as good and wise. So we have our church services, and particularly we have the sacraments of Baptism and the Holy Supper, which the Lord Himself ordained. If we observe these with an understanding of their meaning and a sincere desire to learn about the Lord and to do His will, they become effective means of conjoining us to the Lord. They are necessary to the Lord's closest presence with us. If we sincerely wish to follow the Lord, we shall always look forward to fulfilling this outward symbol of His presence with us. It is a spiritual feast to which the Lord invites us, and He promises to be present with us when we partake of it: "That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom" (@TCR 702-710; @AE 329).

Swedenborg links together the temptation at Gethsemane and the temptation on the cross as constituting the last great temptation of the Lord. The Lord assumed a human in order to meet temptations and overcome them, for the hells could have no possible access to the Divine in itself. Also, the Lord as to His assumed human had to be in freedom just as we are in freedom, if He was to meet and overcome the forces of the hells. So — at times called states of "exinanition" — He was conscious only on the plane of the assumed human, and at such times He prayed to the Father and struggled as a man against the attacks made by the hells upon that human. Such was the final struggle. In the Garden of Gethsemane He prayed that the "cup" - the temptation of the cross — might be removed from Him if it were the Father's will, just as we pray daily, "Lead us not into temptation." He felt, as we feel it, the weakness of the human nature and the strength of evil. But He also prayed, "nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done." "And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven strengthening him." Swedenborg says that the angel was the divine of the Lord, of which He always became conscious again when He was victorious in temptation, every state of exinanition being followed by a state of "glorification." The temptation of the cross and that of Gethsemane were not a shrinking from physical suffering or even from the sorrow of desertion by His followers and misrepresentation before the people, but the temptation to show forth His power and compel the world to see and be saved (@AC 2821, 10528).

To have yielded to this temptation and avoided the cross would have been to defeat the whole purpose of His incarnation. Elsewhere we read, "Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour." (John 12:27) The Lord did not come into the world to compel men to believe in Him but by passing through all men's possible states and overcoming all their temptations to enable them to overcome in His strength. He passed through death to show its powerlessness to destroy the real man. He permitted His enemies to do their worst to show how ineffectual that worst was.

The Lord was tried before three tribunals: the Sanhedrin, Herod, and Pilate. The council, composed of the chief priests and elders, actually condemned Him; the others merely consented to His crucifixion. Priests always represent the will side, and the priests in the time of the perverted church picture evil in the will. This is what really condemns the Lord and rejects Him. The Lord told the priests explicitly that He was the Christ, and they took that very claim as their excuse for condemning Him. The evil will recognizes the claim of the Lord to divine authority and for that very reason rejects Him. Herod, the Jewish ruler, represents the false principle which governs the selfish life. He was anxious to see Jesus, hoping for a miracle, and asked Him many questions, but the Lord gave him no answer. So the rational of an evil man may examine the testimony concerning the Lord out of curiosity, but cannot possibly receive any enlightenment. Pilate, the Roman governor, symbol of worldliness ruling in the outward life, also recognized the Lord's claim to be divine and actually found no fault in Him, but was willing for his own interests to concur in the judgment of the evil will, washing his hands of the whole question.

The passion of the cross was the final temptation necessary to the complete overcoming of the power of evil which attacked the Lord through the assumed human. By it He put off finally all of the finite humanity and united His own Human to the Divine, completing the process of glorification which had been going on throughout His life, as He met and overcame temptations. The earthquake (Matthew 28:2) pictured a complete change in the state of the church which took place at that time (@AE 400). The darkness at the time of the Lord's death represented the falsities of the last time of that church era. The parting of the Lord's garments among the soldiers represented the picking to pieces of the letter of the Word by those who profess to accept it, and the casting of lots for the inner vesture, woven without seam, represents the fact that the internal sense could not be injured. The two thieves on the Lord's right hand and on His left are like the sheep and the goats, those who are saved by genuine acknowledgment of Him and those who are lost because they reject Him. The rending of the veil of the temple represents "that the Lord entered into the Divine Itself by dispersing all appearances; and that He at the same time opened the way to His Divine Itself through His Human made Divine." (@AC 2576[5]) Before the crucifixion, the Lord could reach men only through the mediation of the heavens, always appearing to them in the form of an angel, but after the crucifixion the Lord could come in direct contact with men in His divine human. It is in this sense that Jesus Christ is the mediator. If the Lord had not passed through the states experienced in the death on the cross, there would still have been temptations possible to men through which He had not showed the way, states which He could not reach directly. Now we have direct access to divine power in our every possible need, and in Jesus Christ glorified we can see our heavenly Father face to face.

We know that without the resurrection the founding of the Christian Church would not have taken place. The Gospels show clearly that in spite of the plain statements of the Lord as to His death and resurrection, the crucifixion left the disciples in a state of doubt and discouragement. So doubtful were the apostles that they would not believe the statements of those who first learned that the Lord was risen. They had to be convinced by the evidence of their own eyes. The testimony of the Gospels is quite contrary to the claim of materialistic critics that the apostles made up the story of the resurrection. After the resurrection they were ready to live and die for their faith in the Lord and His teachings. The fact that a small group of men, simple for the most part and not at all remarkable intellectually, could go out into a world of strangers and, in spite of persecution and even the death of some of them convince so many of the truth of their message that the Christian Church was permanently established is a sufficient testimony to their own conviction as well as to the power of the message.

What did the resurrection mean to the disciples? It meant that the Lord was really the Messiah, as they had believed, that all His promises and words were true, that He was master over the grave, that He was unchanged, still the loving friend and tender Father of His "little children," that He was present with them even when they could not see Him, that death was the gateway to a more glorious life, and that nothing which men could do to them could affect their eternal happiness if they remained true to Him. In the strength of this assurance they went forth. In the strength of this assurance the Christian Church was established and grew. Take away belief in the resurrection with all that it implies, and Christianity becomes a mere man-made philosophy, powerless to transcend the level of civil and moral life, with no strength for the present or power for the future.

Let us examine a little more fully the meaning of this event which we celebrate on Easter Sunday. The Lord had told His disciples that He would pass through death and rise again on the third day. He had said, "Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father." (John 10:17-18) He had several times shown His power to raise men from the dead, but to lay down His own life and take it again was another thing. The mockers at the cross recognized this when they said, "He saved others; himself he can not save." The disciples recognized it by giving up hope after the crucifixion. When the Lord rose without the help of any outside agency, He proved that He had life in Himself as no finite human being has. Swedenborg in many numbers notes the difference between the Lord's resurrection and the resurrection of men (@DLove 35, @AC 25, 108, 1729, 2083, 5078, and others). Only God has life in Himself (@DLW 4-6), and the Lord's resurrection therefore showed Him to be God. So Thomas, when finally convinced of the reality of the risen Lord, said "My Lord and my God" (John 20:38).

The certainty that the Lord Jesus Christ is God immediately gives all His words and promises final divine authority. If Jesus had been a mere man, no matter how great and good, He might have been mistaken. But the Lord makes no mistakes. We can be perfectly sure, as the apostles were, that if we follow the Lord and trust in Him, all will be well with us, and that, whatever may happen to us in this world, our efforts to do right will bear fruit and will be crowned with eternal life. Some men claim that belief in another life is an "escape mechanism," a fiction invented by men to help them endure the hardship and injustice of life. Rather, it is a reasonable assumption from the general order of the universe, in which struggle is essential to growth and development, and men voluntarily sacrifice lesser things in the present for greater things in the future. The Lord's resurrection makes this belief a certainty instead of an assumption. "Because I live, ye shall live also."

If we genuinely believe in the Lord's resurrection, we shall not only not fear death, but we shall look forward to it as the crown of life. But the resurrection gives us more help than this. It proves to us that the Lord not only came to earth many centuries ago and lived for a few years in a human form similar to ours, but that He still lives among us in His divine humanity, the same wise, strong person whom the apostles knew and followed. They did not see Him again after the ascension, but they knew He was with them. We do not need to think of God as some far-off being or as some impersonal force. We can think of Him as a man, in whose image we are made, a loving Father, always watching over us and standing near ready to help, if we turn to Him. "For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them." (Matthew 18:20) "Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world." (Matthew 28:20)

