
=== Junior

A considerable amount should be done in this class with the story of the last week of the Lord's life on earth, including the Passover feast, the betrayal, trial and crucifixion, and ending with the Lord's purpose in permitting His enemies their brief apparent triumph, and finally the meaning of the resurrection.

---
What was last Sunday called?

What did the Lord do on that day?

What kind of animal did He ride?

How did the people receive Him?

What did thy think He was going to do for them?

Where did He say His kingdom is?

Who were the Lord's enemies?

Why did they hate Him?

Who were His friends?

Who was Zacchaeus?

What did the Lord do for him?

When the Lord entered Jerusalem, what did He do in the temple?

We know that this was to be the last week of the Lord's life on earth. He and His disciples had come to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of the Passover.

When was the first Passover celebrated?

Why was it called the Passover?

The Lord spent the first two days of the week teaching in the temple. At night He went out to the village of Bethany and lodged at the home of Mary and Martha and their brother Lazarus. (When we study the Gospel of John, we shall have the story of how the Lord had raised Lazarus from death.) By Tuesday night the people had begun to realize that the Lord had not come to drive out the Romans, and they were beginning to believe the Pharisees and priests, who said He was an impostor and should be put to death. So after that the Lord stayed in Bethany until Thursday night, when He came into the city again and ate the Passover feast with the twelve apostles.

It was at this last Passover that the Lord instituted the Holy Supper, which all Christians have celebrated ever since instead of the Passover. The Lord called the bread and wine of the Holy Supper His body and blood. Bread is the symbol of goodness because it nourishes the body just as goodness nourishes the soul. The Lord was perfect goodness, and it is His goodness on which our souls live. The wine and also the Lord's blood picture the truth about Himself, about the soul, and about heaven. This was why the Lord spoke of the bread and wine as His body and blood. It was also at the Passover feast that the Lord told His disciples that one of them would betray Him to His enemies.

Which one was it?

After the feast the Lord went out to the Mount of Olives, near Jerusalem, to pray. There Judas and the multitude found Him. Judas had told the soldiers that the one he would kiss was the one they wanted to arrest. So it is said that Judas betrayed the Lord with a kiss, and this is often said when someone does an injury to another while posing as his friend. The Lord was tried first before the high priest, who condemned Him and sent Him to Pilate, the Roman governor, for sentence because the Jews were not allowed by the Romans to pronounce the death sentence on anyone. Pilate tried to avoid pronouncing sentence by sending the Lord to Herod — this is the Herod who beheaded John the Baptist, not the one who tried to destroy the Lord when He was a baby. This Herod mocked the Lord but was afraid to be responsible for His death: so he sent Him back to Pilate. Pilate did not want to condemn the Lord, but the priests and the people insisted.

When the Lord was crucified — which happened on Friday — the disciples all ran away. They thought He had failed and that they had been mistaken in believing Him to be the Messiah. They forgot all He had told them. But the crucifixion was a victory, not a failure. The Lord could have saved Himself, but He had to show men that death is only a step in life, and He could not show this without passing through death. He let men do their very worst to Him to show that they had no real power over Him. The cross was not the end of the story.

After the crucifixion the soldiers divided the Lord's garments among themselves and cast lots for the inner garment, which was woven without seam. The Lord's body was laid in a new tomb, which a man named Joseph of Arimathea offered for the purpose, and a great stone was placed at the opening of the tomb and sealed there, and soldiers were set to guard it so that His body could not be taken away. During Saturday, the Hebrew sabbath, the body lay in the tomb.

It was early on Sunday morning that the women who had loved the Lord came to the tomb bringing spices which they had prepared to anoint His body, as the custom was. Read Mark 16:3.

What did they find? (Read Matthew 28:2.)

Who appeared to them?

What did the angels tell them?

What saying of Jesus did they remind the women of?

What did the apostles think when the women told them?

What did Peter do?

We shall have the rest of this chapter of Luke in another lesson.

On Easter Day we should rejoice in the Lord's resurrection, for it changed the whole history of the world. The Lord permitted His enemies to do their worst and to put Him to death so that we might all know that there is nothing about death of which we need to be afraid. It is just a normal part of our life. We begin our lives in this world of nature and make them what we choose to have them, and then, when the Lord sees best, we go to sleep in this world and wake up in the spiritual world where our real homes are. And our homes there will be just what we have chosen by our life here.

