
=== Notes for Parents

We all know that on Easter Sunday we celebrate the resurrection of the Lord. The word Easter is not a Bible word.$ It is taken from the name of the Teutonic goddess of spring. Easter always comes in the spring [NCBS: in the northern hemisphere] because the Lord was crucified on the day following the Passover feast, which is celebrated each year according to a certain phase of the moon near the vernal equinox, which marks the beginning of spring. This is also why Easter does not always fall on the same date in our calendar.

[*This is quite correct, despite the KJV passage in Acts 12:4, where it should read "after Passover" as in later versions. -Editor]

It is quite fitting, however, that the resurrection of the Lord should be associated in our minds with springtime, when nature is waking out of the sleep of winter, new shoots are pushing up out of the ground, and returning birds are beginning to wake us in the morning. For the Lord's resurrection brought new life and hope to the world.

When the Lord was crucified, the apostles were completely discouraged. They forgot that He had told them that He would be put to death and would rise on the third day. It is hard for us to understand how they could have forgotten until we think of our own experience with trouble. All of us have had troubles and we have always come through them and we also know the Lord's promises, and yet when a new trouble strikes us, we find it very hard to think of anything hopeful, to "look on the bright side." The apostles either went back to their old work or sat together lamenting and wondering what to do.

But the women who had loved the Lord, while they had no more hope than the men, found something they could still do for Him. They prepared the spices which were used to anoint the bodies of the dead for burial, and early Sunday morning they brought them to the sepulcher. So it was the women and not the apostles who found the stone rolled away, and they were the first to be told that the Lord had risen. There is a simple lesson in this for all of us. When trouble and death enter our homes, we should not give way to our grief and spend our time mourning and questioning the ways of divine providence. We should look for active, useful things to do, and so find new life and hope opening to us.

When the apostles themselves saw the Lord after His resurrection, they lost all fear and doubt and went out and preached the Gospel — the good news — throughout the world, and so founded the Christian Church. We need never doubt that the resurrection was a fact. We see the proof of it in the history of the world as well as in the lives of all those individuals who really accept it as a fact.

The resurrection teaches us two wonderful things. The first is that we need have no fear of death. It is a normal step in life, the closing of one chapter and the opening of another. When we die, we merely go to sleep in this world and wake up in a brighter and more beautiful one, in which we really are now, although our consciousness of it is prevented by our physical bodies.

The other thing we learn is that the Lord is not someone far away. He said to His apostles, "Lo, I am with you always," and He says the same to us, He sees our hearts and our thoughts and hears us when we pray. As we learn of Him and try to live as He would have us live, He draws us ever closer to Him, guiding and supporting us and in every experience that comes to us preparing us for eternal life and happiness.

