
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Teens need the application to their own lives of the closing of the tomb and its opening. Some of them will be going to college soon, where they are likely to meet teaching based on a fundamental misconception of the nature of the Bible, and they should be prepared to think independently while submitting to such instruction.

---
The thought that Christ is not God closes the door of the mind against light from heaven as it comes to us through the Word. Because Peter, James, and John believed Jesus to be the Messiah, their spiritual eyes could be opened to see Him transfigured. So our eyes can be opened to see Him in the inner meaning of the Word. Swedenborg also tells us that our ability to see the Lord in the other world is measured by the understanding of Him which we have gained in this world. If we have not thought of Him as a person, we shall never see Him "face to face," but shall be conscious of Him only as a diffused light, even though we accept the fact that Jesus is God from our angel instructors, as everyone must who enters the heavens.

To understand the Easter lesson we need to review the last week of the Lord's life on earth. The triumphal entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday was, as the Lord knew, really the beginning of the end. The temporary support of the multitude, however, gave the Lord an opportunity to denounce the scribes and Pharisees openly and to cleanse the temple. In very much the same way, there are moments in our lives when our sense of the Lord's kingship there is so strong that we can see our own sins and hypocrisies in clear light and condemn them. We may soon lose this fervor amid the temptations of our daily environment, but its effect will persist and strengthen in us the small beginnings of regenerate life.

There is, of course, a deep spiritual reason why the Lord was crucified during the celebration of the Passover. He is called the paschal lamb. The crucifixion was the culmination of the long succession of struggles and victories by means of which He overcame the hells, the powers of evil which had grown so strong in the world that no man could resist them from his own power. As the Passover commemorated the deliverance of the Jews from bondage to Egypt, so the Holy Supper, instituted by the Lord to take its place, commemorates our deliverance from hell by means of His earthly life and death.

The Lord could have saved Himself from the cross (see Matthew 26:53). But if He had stopped short of physical death, He would not have shown us the way through it. He could have saved Himself by so mighty a miracle that all His enemies would have been forced to acknowledge Him as God. But their hearts would not have been changed. They might have obeyed Him through fear, but they would have been no happier. They would have become slaves to Him instead of to the devil. The Lord does not want slaves. Swedenborg tells us that the Lord's final and supreme temptation was this very temptation to save men against their wills. We sometimes wonder how the apostles, who had had so many evidences of the Lord's power, and who had even been told what was to happen, could have given up hope and forsaken Him when He was crucified. But we have only to remember how hard it is for us, when we are in the midst of a severe trial, to remember all that the Lord has done for us and all that we know of His promises, and to be steadfast and trusting.

It was the women who were first told of the Lord's resurrection.

The women represent our affections. These women did not understand — any more than the apostles did — why the crucifixion had been permitted, but their thought still clung to the Lord and they occupied themselves with doing something for Him. They prepared spices to anoint His body. Spices represent interior truth in the natural from good there. Swedenborg often speaks of the "simple good." These are the people who, without any faculty of deep understanding of the truth, simply want to be good and so are open to heavenly influences and can be given to recognize the truth in the letter of the Word as they read it. So it was the women who found the stone rolled away from the sepulcher. The stone was a symbol of the false interpretation with which the church had closed the Word, and so rejected the divine truth in the person of the Messiah.

The Lord had told His disciples that His kingdom was "not of this world." But even the apostles persisted in thinking of His mission in terms of worldly success. This should not surprise us. We too know — better than the apostles did — that our thoughts and affections are more important than our bodies, and yet we shun physical pain and discomfort and give up spiritual things again and again for the sake of physical ease and pleasure. We may despise Peter for denying the Lord, but then turn around and deny Him in our own daily lives. We wonder how the disciples could have failed to understand and remember the things He had told them about His death and resurrection, but how well do we understand and remember His teachings?

The Lord must rise for us as really as for the disciples. Do we believe the report, or are we like the apostles when the women returned from the sepulcher with the wonderful news: "And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not"?

