
=== Primary

Although some of these children may not be able to read, they can be shown the two divisions of the Bible, learn their names, and the meaning of the word Testament. They may also be taught what a prophecy is and the difference between the Lord's means of speaking with the people in the Old Testament and in the New. Read them Malachi 3:17 and tell them that when they are good they are the Lord's jewels. Talk about the nature of the covenant between God and men and the difference in the way in which the Lord's coming affects the good and the evil.

Our lesson today is from the last two chapters of the last book of the Old Testament. Perhaps you know that our Bible is divided into two parts, the Old Testament and the New Testament. Your teacher will show them to you. A testament is a solemn covenant or agreement. The testaments in our Bible tell us about the agreement the Lord makes with men on earth. You remember that all through our lessons the Lord has been promising that if the people would obey Him, He would take care of them and make them happy. In the Old Testament the Lord makes these promises through Moses and the Prophets. Man's part of the agreement is the promise to obey the Lord.

But we have learned that the people in the Holy Land did not keep their part of the agreement, and so the Lord could not keep them safe and happy. Let us read our lesson for today. [Read Malachi 3:1-2; 4:1-6.] You see that here at the very end of the Old Testament the Lord told the people that a time was coming when He Himself would come into the world. The bad people who had not been obeying Him would be afraid when He came, just as you are sometimes afraid when your mother finds you doing something naughty. But the good people would welcome Him.

A foretelling of something that is going to happen is called a prophecy. Malachi 4:2 tells how the Lord's coming will seem to the good. You know that it is the sun which makes the daytime when we can see all the beautiful things around us and work and play together. So the Lord's coming is to be like the rising of the sun in the morning, making everything bright and clear.

Can you think of any kind of people who prefer darkness to sunlight?

The Lord says that the wicked will be afraid when He comes, but the good will welcome Him.

Who is to be sent before the Lord to prepare His way?

Who was Elijah?

This prophecy really means that someone very much like Elijah would come to prepare people for the coming of the Lord. This man was John the Baptist.

