
=== Adult

The major discussion topic is the nature of the love of dominion and the insidious way in which it can enter the heart and gain control of it — particularly its manifestation in people of the church.

---
Because the Scriptures everywhere apply to us, the story of the fall of Israel and Judah should bring us some very sobering thoughts. Israel was conquered by Assyria. Its people were carried away captive and never returned, foreigners being brought in to take their places. Assyria was not allowed to extend its conquest to Judah, although for a time in Hezekiah's reign the Assyrian army threatened Jerusalem. But a century or more later Babylon came into control of both Assyria and Egypt and was able to destroy Jerusalem and carry off all the royal household and the men of might and ability, leaving only the poor of the land to tend the fields and vineyards. Seventy years later some of the people of Judah — all who so desired — were allowed to return and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple, but the Jewish nation never again served as the representative of the Lord's church among men. We may note in passing that it was the descendants of the returned captives of Judah and the descendants of the "poor of the land" not carried away who were the Jews in the Holy Land when the Lord was born, and that the Samaritans of the Gospels were the descendants of the foreigners brought in to take the place of the people of Israel.

Israel and Judah represent, respectively, the intellect and the will of the person of the church. Assyria represents the rational mind or reasoning in general, and Egypt represents the natural mind or the plane of memory-knowledge. The proper relationship of Israel to Egypt and Assyria is described in Isaiah 19:23-24: "In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land." That is, in the properly ordered mind there should be free interplay of reasoning and memory-knowledge, but the spiritual should stand as "a blessing in the midst." Israel sacrificed her opportunity to be such a blessing when she separated herself from Judah and substituted the worship of the golden calves for the worship of the Lord. Once the person of the church begins to entertain the thought that outward good works constitute religion, he is separated from the divine source of all power to do good. His intellect and reasoning are used more and more to exalt worldly learning above revelation, and his mind is finally carried away captive by the world outside the church.

Judah — the heart — also worshiped idols; but it maintained at the same time the worship of the Lord in the temple at Jerusalem. Consequently its people were kept reminded of their true God, and some of them remained faithful. Even several of the kings, as we have learned in other lessons, were true followers of the Lord and made strenuous efforts to destroy the idols and reform the people. The heart which has once experienced the happiness and peace of regenerate life cannot be subverted by worldly reasoning alone. Assyria could not conquer Judah.

There existed, however, another enemy which had been gathering strength over the centuries and now rose to take over Assyria and all the land tributary to Assyria. This was Babylon, "the land of Shinar," the land of the Chaldees, from which Abraham had been called so long before. Babylon represents the love of dominion, the old natural selfish will which prompts us to feel that what we want is right and that everyone and everything should be made to serve us. Swedenborg applies the meaning of Babylon specifically to the love of dominion through the misuse of religion, the setting up of the fiat of men above the Word of God as the authority for the church.

Shortly after the fall of Israel the king of Babylon sent messengers to Hezekiah king of Judah ostensibly to inquire for his health. Hezekiah was deceived, received the messengers as friends, and showed them all his treasures. Then Isaiah came to Hezekiah and told him that Babylon would one day carry off all the treasures of Judah and that Hezekiah's descendants would be servants in the court of Babylon. Our chapters for today describe the fulfillment of this prophecy. Once the insidious love of rule is admitted into the inner chambers of the heart of the person of the church, its control of his life follows. There is nothing which the Word and the writings more clearly and positively condemn than arrogance and the love of rule.

The great prophet of the last years of Judah was Jeremiah. The story of these last years is told very briefly in 2 Kings, but in much more fullness in the book of Jeremiah. For Jeremiah was recognized as the Lord's prophet by the last kings of Judah and was consulted by them even though they had no intention of obeying the Lord. Because of their wickedness they rejected Jeremiah's counsel again and again, and he himself was shamefully mistreated. People may and do go to the Word and study it in the hope of finding confirmation of their own will and opinion, but when they find that it obviously condemns them, they disparage and reject it.

When the Lord came into the world, He had to come in the Holy Land because of the correspondence of all its parts and places, long established by the letter of the Word. And He had to come where the Word was, since He was to fulfill it. Therefore some of the Jews, with the Word, had to be brought back to the Holy Land, and the temple had to be rebuilt. And there were a few good Jews left — the poor of the land, the humble — who would receive the Lord when He came. But, as we have pointed out, the Hebrew nation as a nation ceased to represent the Lord's church on earth when Judah was taken captive. The connection of the Lord with mankind was maintained for a time by the prophets of the captivity and restoration, and then for some four hundred years only by the few humble souls who still believed and obeyed the Law and the Prophets in simplicity. When this connection was threatened by the perverted teachings of the scribes and Pharisees, the Lord had to come into the world to restore it.

