
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the correspondence of Assyria and Babylon in connection with that of Israel and Judah, and point out Jeremiah's connection with the final decline and fall of Judah. The danger of trying to compromise with worldly ambitions is an important lesson for the Intermediates.

---
In time Syria was absorbed by Assyria, the great nation further east whose capital was Nineveh. Syria represents knowledges of good and truth. Assyria represents reasoning or the rational mind. In Isaiah 19:23-24 we read: "In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land." Egypt represents the natural plane of the mind in which memory-knowledges are stored up. Israel represents the mind of the spiritual person, the person of the church who has become to some extent at least regenerate. So the quotation from Isaiah shows us what our minds ought to be like, with our reasoning power acting freely in connection with our memory knowledge, but both enlightened and controlled by the spiritual understanding — Israel a blessing in the midst. When Israel ceased to worship the Lord, it surrendered its proper function and finally was captured by Assyria. That is, when the mind of a person of the church stops looking to the Word for its light and guidance, that person's reasoning power actually becomes an enemy of his spiritual life and eventually takes away his spiritual understanding and his freedom altogether. The people of Israel were carried away captive to Assyria and never came back. Foreigners were brought in from the east to take their places. Later, when we study the Gospel, we shall learn something about the descendants of these foreigners, who came to be called the Samaritans.

Assyria tried to capture Judah also, but was driven off by the power of the Lord. Because Judah continued the worship of the Lord in the temple at Jerusalem its history was different from that of Israel, even though many of its people and most of its kings also worshiped idols. Judah represents the heart or will. The heart of a person who has reached a state of regeneration clings to its good intentions even when the thinking has become worldly and the motives mixed. Mere worldly reasoning cannot change these good intentions. Assyria could not conquer Judah. We have had lessons about several of the good kings of Judah, individuals who tried to bring the people back to the sole worship of the Lord. A person who sees his good character slipping away may try again and again to "turn over a new leaf." But temptations continue, and without the support and protection of true spiritual principles in the mind the good will cannot hold its ground. After the people of Israel were carried away by Assyria, Judah was greatly weakened. Even its good kings were reduced to "buying off" their enemies with the treasures first of the king's house and finally of the temple itself. In the same way, one may compromise with falsity and evil little by little until he has nothing left.

During the latter years of its existence Judah relied on the support of Egypt. Our memory-knowledge of the truth seems to sustain us for a time. But finally a new and more powerful enemy took over Assyria and then Egypt, and Judah could no longer stand. This enemy was Babylon. Babylon represents the "love of dominion," which means the desire to be first and to make other people do what we want. We all know from our own experience how natural this desire is to us and how strong it is.

The history of the last years of Judah shows us how this selfish desire to have our own way gradually takes over in the heart, once we have let worldly reasoning take the place of the guidance of the Word in our minds. Notice that this very thing had been prophesied by Isaiah in the days of king Hezekiah (2 Kings 20:16-18) not long after Israel was carried away captive by Assyria. You remember that Hezekiah had showed the messengers from the king of Babylon — who came to him ostensibly on a friendly mission — all his treasures. Now these treasures are gradually carried away to Babylon. The king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar, did not immediately destroy Judah. First he took away to Babylon some of the most promising of the young princes, among whom was Daniel. Then he surrounded Judah by getting control of Egypt. Then he besieged Jerusalem, and king Jehoiachin and his family gave themselves up voluntarily and were carried away to Babylon along with the "mighty men of valor" and the craftsmen and smiths. Nebuchadnezzar spared Jerusalem and the kingdom at this time and set up as puppet king an uncle of Jehoiachin, whose name — Mattaniah - he changed to Zedekiah. But when Zedekiah rebelled, Jerusalem was taken and burned and the temple destroyed. Zedekiah's eyes were put out, his sons were all killed, and all the remaining people were carried away to Babylon except the "poor of the land," who were left to be vine dressers and husbandmen. This teaches us how the heart gradually gives way to selfishness until it stops worshiping the Lord at all or trying to do right. The poor of the land are those who are humble and conscious of their own weakness and need of the Lord. If once we have started on the regenerate life, there are always some of these "poor" remnants left deep in our hearts to keep our spiritual life from being entirely destroyed.

This is where the prophet Jeremiah comes into the story. He of course represents the Word of the Lord trying to reach and guide us in this difficult state. Jeremiah had perhaps the hardest life of any of the prophets. When selfishness is getting control of our hearts, we do not like to listen to the teachings of the Word. Jeremiah was despised, plotted against, thrown into prison and into a pit partly full of water, beaten, put in the stocks, and almost starved to death; and finally he was carried away to Egypt against his will by some of the fugitives. Yet he spoke the Word of the Lord faithfully and boldly through it all. We learn all this from the book of Jeremiah and from Lamentations — believed to have been written through Jeremiah in Egypt — rather than from the books of Kings. We have assigned a chapter in Jeremiah with our lesson today to show how the books of the prophets often fill out the details of the historical story as well as point up the reason for what happened. Even in the last days of Judah, Zedekiah recognized Jeremiah as a prophet and sent messengers to him to inquire of the Lord. But even the Lord cannot help us against our will. If we persist in disregarding His commandments, He must let justice take its course. We notice, however, that the poor were left in the land, and we know that after seventy years some of the captives were allowed to come back and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple.

