
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Give this class as clear and detailed a view as possible of the story of the divided kingdom, dwelling on the individuals and nations concerned, their relation to each other and to earlier and later history, and the underlying causes of events. Our lessons on the prophets will be helped by this background. Show the class the location of Syria, Assyria, and Babylon on a map.

---
Assyria extended its power farther and farther westward, and Israel, because of its own wickedness, could not stand against it. The Lord cannot help us if we refuse to obey Him. So finally Israel was conquered and all its people were carried away into captivity. They never came back, and no one knows what became of their descendants. They are sometimes referred to as "the lost tribes of Israel." The king of Assyria brought in other people from the east to take their places. The descendants of these people were still living in the Holy Land when the Lord came on earth hundreds of years later. We know them as the Samaritans.

Judah, the southern kingdom, lasted longer than Israel. Some of the kings and many of the people followed the bad example of Solomon and worshiped idols as well as the Lord, but they did still have Jerusalem and the temple to remind them of what they ought to do, and several of their kings were good and tried hard to bring them back to obedience to the Lord. We have had lessons about three of these good kings: Asa, Hezekiah, and Josiah. Several great prophets also lived in Judah, notably Isaiah and Jeremiah.

But gradually idolatry and evil practices began to prevail in Judah also. The eastern nations, Assyria and Babylon, gained more and more control. Judah saved itself for a time by an alliance with Egypt and by paying tribute and giving up the treasures of the palace and then of the temple. But after the people of Israel were carried away, there was no protection on the north, and then Egypt became of no more help. See if you can find early in our first chapter for today the reason for this.

Who was the next to the last king of Judah?

Where was he taken when he was carried away?

What great nation finally took possession of the land?

Who was the last king of Judah?

To whom did he send messengers to inquire of the Lord?

What did the Lord tell them?

What happened to Zedekiah?

What classes of people were carried away with him?

Who were left in the land?

Why were they left?

What happened to the temple?

What happened to Jerusalem?

The prophet Jeremiah had advised the king to submit to Babylon.

For this reason the king of Babylon allowed Jeremiah to remain in his home. After Jerusalem was destroyed, Jeremiah tried to persuade all the people who were left to settle down quietly and obey the king of Babylon. But some of them were afraid and decided to flee to Egypt, and they forced Jeremiah to go with them. So Jeremiah died in Egypt. The prophecies recorded in the book of Lamentations are believed to have been given through him in Egypt before he died, as well as the last few chapters of the book of Jeremiah.

The last few verses of 2 Kings 25 tell how the king of Babylon finally took pity on Jehoiachin, Zedekiah's predecessor, in his captivity. From that time on the exiles had an easier time, and after seventy years the Lord "put it in the heart" of the king of Babylon to allow all who wanted to return to the Holy Land and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple. So the Jews who lived in the Holy Land when the Lord came on earth were descendants of the people of Judah.

