
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The gradual taking over of Judah by Babylon, and the connection of the two great prophets Isaiah and Jeremiah with this period is the important study for the Older Teens. The teacher should be prepared to give more details about Jeremiah than are given in the Older Teen notes. The Intermediate notes will be found helpful here.

---
Israel was finally conquered by Assyria — which represents worldly reasoning — and its people had been carried away captive, never to return. Assyria then threatened Judah, but Hezekiah, who had served the Lord faithfully, asked His help, and the Assyrian army was dispersed by a miracle and Judah saved for the time being. The heart of the person who has entered upon the regenerate life cannot be overcome by mere worldly ideas. But behind these worldly ideas there is a more powerful enemy which can overcome the good intentions of the heart. You remember that the king of Babylon sent messengers to Hezekiah, ostensibly to inquire as to his health, and that Hezekiah received them as friends and showed them all his treasures. Babylon represents the selfish love of dominion — that feeling that everyone ought to do what we want them to do. Isaiah told Hezekiah just what the result would be. Read 2 Kings 20:16-18. His prophecy was fulfilled. The king of Babylon, once Hezekiah had shown him the treasures of Jerusalem, did not rest until he made them his own. In our lesson for today he has captured all the countries surrounding Judah even as far as Egypt and is ready for the final attack.

This is characteristic of the selfish love of dominion. It creeps into the life by degrees until it reaches the heart. Deprived of a true understanding of the Lord and the Word, the heart has no stability. In its "well—meaning" states it still tries to do right, but when these states recede, it easily falls prey to selfishness, which has already invaded the mind and the daily life.

There was one good king in Judah after Hezekiah. This was his great—grandson Josiah, about whose sweeping reforms we recently learned. But Josiah's reforms did not last. The three kings who followed him were all evil. Josiah's son Jehoahaz was taken captive and carried into Egypt, and his brother Eliakim, called by the Egyptians Jehoiakim, was set up in his stead, paying tribute to Egypt. Presently he rebelled against Egypt, which had been driven back at this time by the king of Babylon. Jehoiakim's reign of eleven years was troubled by constant raids, and his son Jehoiachin held his throne only three months before Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, attacked Jerusalem and carried away to Babylon "all the princes, and all the mighty men of valor, even ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths," and the king, his family, and his officers, together with the treasures of the temple and of the king's house, leaving only the poorest of the people to care for the land.

Nebuchadnezzar set up Zedekiah, the king's uncle, as a puppet ruler, but after he had reigned nine years, he too rebelled. Then Nebuchadnezzar besieged Jerusalem and two years later captured and destroyed it. The punishment of Zedekiah is described in 2 Kings 25:6, 7. It pictures the destruction of all ability to see the genuine truth or to produce any spiritual development. Again Nebuchadnezzar set up a puppet ruler, a grandson of Josiah's scribe Shaphan, not as king this time but as governor. The people left behind finally overthrew him, and then, afraid to face the wrath of Babylon, they emigrated for refuge to Egypt.

This history is a picture of what may happen to anyone who once permits worldliness to enter his heart. Take, for example, the case of a young person brought up in any church today. When he leaves home and is separated from the associations of his home church, he still means to remain Christian. But many conditions surround him which make it easy for him to stop going to church on Sunday. If he has gone before just as a matter of habit and does not really understand what his church means and its importance in his life, he will make less and less effort to attend worship. Without regular worship, the duties and pleasures of his external life will gradually fill his mind. He will, however, still think of himself as a good person and a Christian, and what he wants to do will consequently seem to him to be right. His own will finally comes to be ruler in his heart in place of the Lord's will. "Babylon" has captured "Judah." The final step is the complete blinding of his mind to spiritual truth and the destruction of spiritual character with all its beauties. He has become a slave of worldly and selfish principles.

From the book of Jeremiah we learn how the Lord through the Word continues to warn and tries to guide such a person to a humbler state of mind. But the Lord cannot save anyone against his will. Justice must take its course if we refuse to obey the Lord. It is interesting that the original name of Zedekiah — Mattaniah - means "God's gift," and that Zedekiah means "the justice of God."

Chapter 25 marks the end of that portion of the consecutive history of the Old Testament which has an inner sense. But just at the close of a chapter we see the beginning of a development which was to lead to the return of a part of Judah to the Holy Land some seventy years later. For it is recorded there that Evilmerodach king of Babylon "did lift up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison," changed his prison garments, and thereafter treated him as a favored ward.

We recognize in general that the taking captive of Judah by Babylon pictures the invasion of the heart of a well—intentioned person by selfishness and the love of dominion. This does not happen at once. The will to good reasserts itself many times before it is finally overcome. And even then the possibility of return is preserved by the Lord.

