
=== Adult

A topic for this lesson with the Adults might well be: "How we as members of the church may be betraying the Lord." Some of the younger and newer members of the class will also need a discussion of the meaning and value of the Holy Supper and of what constitutes proper preparation for approach to it.

We read in @AC 5915 that sustenance in the spiritual sense is "nothing else than the influx of good and truth through heaven from the Lord. From this are the angels sustained, and from this is the soul of man (that is, his internal man) sustained. To this sustenance corresponds the sustenance of the external man by food and drink; and therefore, by 'food' is signified good, and by 'drink' truth. Such also is the correspondence, that when a man is partaking of food, the angels with him are in the idea of good and truth, and wonderful to say with a difference according to the species of the food. Thus when a man in the Holy Supper receives the bread and the wine, the angels with him are in the idea of the good of love and the good of faith ... for the reason that bread corresponds to the good of love, and wine to the good of faith; and because they correspond, they also signify the same in the Word."

The New Church recognizes only two sacraments, baptism and the Holy Supper, considering these two to have been specifically instituted and commanded by the Lord Himself. In Luke (22:19) we are told that when the Lord gave the bread to His disciples, He said, "This do in remembrance of me." As we have seen before, the disciples in spite of all the Lord had told them did not realize that the Lord would actually be put to death. Even Judas, as his later acts indicate, obviously expected the Lord to save Himself as He had so often done before. But the Lord knew what was about to happen. On the previous day in Bethany, as our chapter tells us, when the woman anointed Him with the precious ointment, He told them: "She hath done what she could: she is come aforehand to anoint my body to the burying." We are told in John 12:4-6 that it was Judas who voiced the objection to Mary's act on the ground that the precious ointment should have been sold to benefit the poor, "not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein." And in both Matthew and Mark it is immediately after the Lord's commendation of Mary that Judas goes to the chief priests with his offer to betray the Lord. Judas, we have seen, represents his nation, which put the all of religion in the externals of worship. Yet Judas was one of the twelve chosen by the Lord Himself, and in @TCR 791, in connection with the historical Second Coming, we are told:

"After this work was finished the Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day He sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that THE LORD GOD JESUS CHRIST reigns." Judas, we may infer, was still one of the twelve. In @TCR 4 in the same connection it is said, "his twelve disciples, now angels." Apparently Judas the man had in him the basis of salvation. As a representative character he belongs with the apostles; the externals of worship are an essential part of the complete Christian life. But we must always keep in mind that it is through them, when the emphasis is put on them rather than on the celestial and spiritual things which they represent, that the Lord is betrayed. The first Christian Church betrayed the Lord in this way by adding interpretations and regulations of its own to the simple and beautiful teaching and example of the Lord as given us by Him in the Word of the New Testament. When we compare the elaborate rituals of some churches today with the simple ceremony of the Holy Supper as the Lord first gave it, we realize the danger into which the love of the externals of worship can lead.

We should note in our chapter that a state of humility preceded the institution of the Holy Supper. The Lord told the twelve that one of them would betray Him, and instead of looking at each other with suspicion "they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto Him one by one, 'Is it I?'" This is the pattern for our own approach to the Holy Supper. "What weaknesses are in me which may be leading me to betray the Lord?" The thirteenth chapter of True Christian Religion (nos. 698-752) is devoted to the subject of the Holy Supper. Section 6 of this chapter is headed: "Those come to the holy supper worthily who have faith in the Lord and charity toward the neighbor." See the excerpt from n. 726 below.

We recall that even James and John had in their minds thoughts of their own power and glory, and this universal tendency in man to wish to place himself first is further impressed upon us by the story of Peter's denial of the Lord. Peter, we know, represents faith, and Peter was sure that though all others failed, he would remain true. He needed to see and acknowledge his own weakness, and each of us needs the same lesson. Another example of the same weakness is found in verses 51 and 52. This little incident is recorded only in the Gospel of Mark, and commentators with some reason have suggested that the young man may have been Mark himself. We remember that Mark lived in Jerusalem and that his mother was among the most prominent of the early Christians. Tidings of the exodus of the multitude with swords and staves in the direction of the garden where the Lord had gone might well have reached her home and prompted young Mark to leave his bed hastily and follow. The important thought for us, however, is rather that in the correspondence the linen garment represents the possession of truth from the divine - "the fine linen is the righteousness of saints" — and nakedness represents lack of truth. When the enemy laid hold on the young man's garment, he left the linen cloth and fled from them naked. Although he had received and accepted the Lord's teaching, his belief was not strong enough to stand in the face of personal danger.

There are other things in this chapter which we need to note especially. One is the prayer of the Lord in Gethsemane. We may be sure that the Lord was not praying to be spared physical suffering. What the suffering on the cross was we shall consider in our next lesson. The form of the prayer, however, is a divine recognition of the weakness of human nature; "For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust." What the Lord is saying to us here is that it is not wrong for us to pray to be delivered from some impending trial or bereavement provided that at the same time we are at heart willing to go through it if the Lord sees that it is for our good.

We all recognize the betrayal of the Lord by Judas with a kiss as picturing the betrayal of the Lord which is involved in professing to be a Christian while inwardly serving self instead of the Lord. One of the strongest arguments men offer against uniting with a church is that so many of its members are obviously sinners.

Finally we should note verses 61-64, because sometimes people say that the Lord never claimed to be the Messiah, when in fact this very claim was made the basis for His condemnation by the high priest. Note that there is nothing in this chapter which has to do with Gentiles — people outside of the church. Its lessons concern those who profess religion, and it shows us our constant need of humility and of the consciousness of our own weakness and selfishness, of not pointing at others but at every point asking sincerely, "Is it I?"

