
=== Notes for Parents

It is a very sad fact that many people never in their whole lives take part in the Lord's Supper. In Revelation 3:20 the Lord says to us, "Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me." A line in an old hymn says, "Oh shame, thrice shame upon us, to keep Him standing there."

There is no one who at some time in his life has not been told about God. That knowledge is the Lord knocking at the door of his mind. But the Lord never forces His way in. He leaves us free to admit Him or to keep Him out. If we care only for ourselves and our own way, we do not want to let the Lord in. But the Lord is the light of our life, and when we shut Him out, we stumble along through life in the dark, often hurting ourselves and others, sometimes getting what we think we want but never satisfied, never happy for very long at a time, jealous of those who seem to have more than we have, resentful over any trouble that comes to us, afraid of sickness and old age and death, and always blaming others for our unhappiness and disappointments.

To hear the Lord's voice is to recognize that we should obey His commandments. Then we open the door of our minds and try to learn all we can of what He wants us to do and to be. At first it takes some self-sacrifice, some changing of our habits, but we soon find that we have let in the light with the most welcome guest of all. Our way becomes clear and we find new joy from day to day. The Lord loves each one of us. He wants to give us each all we can receive of His own goodness and truth which are His very life. This is what is pictured by the bread and wine of the Holy Supper, which in our chapter for today the Lord calls His body and blood. If we give up our own way and become His true disciples, we may sit at His table and share in His joy. As the prophet Hosea says:

"Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the Lord: his going forth is prepared as the morning."

