
=== Adult

Good discussion topics are: the meaning of the change from Moses to Joshua; the correspondence — good and bad — of the Jordan; and the central place that the commandments must take in our lives in the regenerate state as well as in the period of reformation.

We note that we have left the books of Moses. Most of our lessons have been from Genesis, Exodus, and Numbers. This does not mean that Leviticus and Deuteronomy are of less value than the other three, but merely that the instruction contained in them is for the most part too detailed for the purpose of a rapid survey of the whole Word. Each one of the statutes in the book of Leviticus has an inner meaning which applies to our life and conduct. The book of Deuteronomy, called the second giving of the law, was all delivered after the Israelites had reached their final encampment near the Jordan, and is in itself a summary of all that had happened to them under Moses and of all the instruction given them through him. Much of it is in the first person, as spoken by Moses directly to the people. In the first four chapters he rehearses briefly the story of their wanderings, bringing to their remembrance the wonderful way in which the Lord has upheld them together with a picture of their own weakness and disobedience. Chapters 5 to 26 are a recapitulation of the laws and statutes previously given to them, with a constant exhortation to obedience. In the rest of the book these laws are delivered into the stewardship of the Levites, and Joshua and the people are solemnly urged to observe them faithfully in the years to come, particularly in times of safety and prosperity, when they will be tempted to forget their dependence upon the Lord.

The leadership of Moses represents the first stage of our journey out of Egypt, away from the dominion of purely natural and worldly feelings and thoughts. As we have seen, these worldly motives and ideas cling to us and are constantly cropping up. The Israelites in the wilderness were always looking back longingly toward the fleshpots of Egypt. Throughout the period of reformation we have a tendency to look upon the law of the Lord as a hard master, and to take considerable credit to ourselves when we obey it. The higher part of our mind recognizes that happiness and peace can come only through conquering self and wholly following the Lord, but the old self persists in intruding itself in everything we do. The type of obedience represented by Moses can bring us in sight of the Holy Land of truly spiritual living, but cannot take us across the border line into it.

Joshua, whose name means "whose help is the Lord," represents another type of leadership — the truth fighting. When we have obeyed the Lord's law until it has become so interwoven with our lives that we no longer struggle against it, but see it in a new spirit as an expression of the Lord's love and look to its leadership as a matter of course, the truth becomes ours to use and we are ready to pass over from merely external living to genuine spiritual living, to apply the test of the Lord's truth to our inner motives and thoughts and to fight from it against deeper enemies than mere evils of conduct.

The conquest of the Holy Land is the period of regeneration, and the Lord wants us to go as far in regeneration as we possibly can. He will be with us in this deeper conflict as He was in the more external battles. He says to Joshua, "As I was with Moses, so I will be with thee: I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee." But we must remember the charge. All our efforts must be founded upon the Word, and we must "meditate therein day and night." We never reach the state where we can discard the law or break the law with impunity, nor do we ever get so far that we cannot learn more about the Word and its meaning for us. Also, we must be "strong and of a good courage." The Christian life is an active, constructive, progressive life, in which we must always advance, never resting satisfied with what we have attained. It requires the highest form of courage, the courage to speak truth, to say "no" to temptation, to face our own evils squarely, often to go against popular opinion, to face ridicule, to love our enemies. And there is only one source of such courage: we must not look to ourselves as strong, but we must be strong and of a good courage "for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest." We must recognize that we have no strength except from the Lord, that our victories are the Lord's victories in us. This is a lesson which the Lord teaches over and over again throughout the Word: "Without me ye can do nothing."

The Israelites reached the Jordan at the time of harvest. The beginning of regeneration is the time of harvest for all the victories we have won in our wilderness journey. But the Israelites found one more barrier which must be overcome. The Jordan River stands for the Lord's truth coming down to the level of everyday life, the boundary of heavenly living. If we want to have eternal life, we must first of all keep the commandments. At the time when Israel camped before Jordan, the Holy Land was full of evil people who were ready to fight them. We all have selfishness deeply entrenched within us, and self-interest can turn even truth from the Lord into falsity. So Swedenborg tells us that the Jordan barring the way of entrance into the Holy Land represents falsity instead of truth (or, more precisely, truth falsified). Once it is passed it again becomes truth.

It was by the power of the ark that Israel passed safely through these waters. The commandments laid up in the ark in the Holy of Holies of the tabernacle represent the commandments "written on the heart." This is what enables us to enter the Holy Land of a regenerate life. When we examine ourselves to make sure that we have been doing right outwardly not just to avoid trouble or to seem "respectable" or even just to get to heaven, and when we determine to live from truly worthy motives, obeying the commandments from love to the Lord and the neighbor, keeping them written in our hearts and minds as well as in our outward conduct, then we really enter the Holy Land.

And even then we need reminders. We know that we all have a tendency to slip back, especially when things are going well with us, as Moses had warned the people before he died. We need something to bring frequently to our attention the remembrance of our past difficulties, of the Lord's saving power, and of our good resolutions. The twelve stones taken from the bed of Jordan and set up at Gilgal for a memorial picture this reminder. We need them for ourselves and we need them to help us in teaching our children the way of life and in teaching others. If the commandments are set up in our lives so that others see that they are of the utmost importance to us, we shall not belie our teaching by our practice. Read Joshua 4:20-24.

Other important events are connected with Gilgal. There the Israelites celebrated their first Passover in the Holy Land. This, as we know, was also ordained as a solemn reminder of the Lord's mercy and saving power. And at Gilgal the manna ceased and they began to eat the fruits of the land. When we reach the regenerate state, we know where our spiritual food comes from and how it is produced. We no longer have to say of spiritual nourishment, "What is it?" It no longer melts in the heat of the day or spoils when we store it up. It was here, too, that the ritual of circumcision was restored as the sign of dedication to purity of life. The "reproach of Egypt" has been "rolled away" as we are told in Joshua 5:9 in explanation of the naming of Gilgal, which means either rolling or a circle [of stones].

