
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AE 700: "Here 'Jordan' and its waters signify falsities of evil ... since the land of Canaan was then filled with idolatrous nations ... Now as the Lord alone removes and scatters the falsities of evil that are from hell, and by His Divine truths brings the faithful into the church and into heaven, and as the ark and the law inclosed in it represented the Lord in relation to Divine truth, it was commanded that the ark should go before the people and thus lead them. This is why it came to pass that as soon as the priests bearing the ark dipped their feet in the waters of Jordan those waters were divided and went down, and the people passed over on dry land, and after this was done the waters returned. Then these same waters signify truths that bring in; for Jordan was the first boundary of the land of Canaan, and that land, when the sons of Israel had entered into it, represented the church, and that river introduction into it. As the waters of Jordan signified truths that bring in they were commanded to take up out of the midst of it twelve stones, and carry them over to the first place where they passed the night, and this because 'stones' signify truths, and 'twelve stones according to the number of the tribes of Israel' signified the truths of the church."

---
Suggested Questions on the Lesson
--- 

Junior: Where did Moses die? Mount Nebo

Primary: Who succeeded him as leader? Joshua

Junior: What charge was given to Joshua? Be strong and of a good courage

Junior: Where was the last encampment of the Israelites in the wilderness? opposite Jericho

Junior: At what time of year did they reach it? harvest

Primary: What barred their way into the Holy Land? Jordan

Primary: How was the river parted for them? by a miracle

Junior: What did Joshua set up in the middle of the river bed? twelve stones

Junior: What did he set up at their first camp in the Holy Land? twelve stones

Intermediate: Why did he set up these stones? reminder of miracle

Junior: What was this first camping place called? Gilgal (rolling)

Junior: Why? reproach of Egypt "rolled away"

Junior: What else happened there? Passover, circumcision

Intermediate: What does Joshua represent in us? the truth fighting

Intermediate: What does the Jordan represent? introductory truths to spiritual living

Senior: What is pictured by crossing the Jordan into the Holy Land? beginning to change will and hence to live truly spiritual lives

== AT GILGAL — Joshua 5

This lesson may be begun without special introduction as the story of the final arrival of the Israelites at their destination. The death of Moses, the succession of Joshua, and the Lord's charge to Joshua (Joshua 1:7-9) will come in naturally. The story of the crossing of the Jordan and the setting up of the twelve stones at Gilgal tie in with the first verse of the chapter.

