
=== Senior

Since for this class earlier lessons have brought out many of the points which are important for this special day, the teacher may give most of the lesson time to a review of these points, merely emphasizing the reason for the name given to this day.

We of the New Church call the nineteenth of June "New Church Day." You will find the reason for this in @TCR 791.

The first verse of the Bible reads: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." And the first verse of John's final vision reads: "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away." Mankind in his beginning was like a newborn baby: he possessed a soul and a body but knew nothing of himself until he had been developed and instructed by the Lord. He was a man, however, not an animal. He was from his very beginning distinguished from the animals by the possession of two faculties, rationality and freedom of choice. The first chapter of Genesis teaches us how he was developed to full manhood and instructed directly by the Lord, and the second chapter describes the beautiful state in which he was able to live until he began to use his free choice to set himself up in place of the Lord.

Our lessons on the Bible have showed us how again and again the human race declined because of the many who chose to eat the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil — the exaltation of their own intelligence — instead of keeping the tree of life in the center of their garden. Each time a crisis was reached the many had to be destroyed or dispersed and a new beginning made with the remnant of faithful people by means of a new revelation of truth in a form suited to their state. When the Lord came into the world in a human body, mankind had reached its lowest state and the good could not have been preserved in any other way.

But you may remember that the Lord said to His disciples, "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now," and in another prophecy He promised that at a future time they would see Him coming "in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory." The Lord has now made this Second Coming by opening the inner meaning of the Word, so that anyone who will may now understand the many things He has to say to the men of this new age. It is His final revelation of Himself to man. How foolish we are if we in this age choose to be of those who imagine they know enough to live without God instead of learning of and living in the new heaven and the new earth!

