
=== Adult

The meaning of the first four disciples, the order in which they are named, and the result of their call are all very important. The expression "fishers of men" should be developed in connection with the meaning of fish and fishing to give us a specific instead of a general idea of what the nature of our missionary efforts should be. If we ourselves have been in the habit of drawing living truths for use in our lives out of our memory-knowledge of the Word by means of the doctrines of our church, we shall be able to apply the same technique for the benefit of others. But it is essential that we recognize that we must all be disciples before we can be worthy apostles.

---
The Lord, by means of victories over temptations, brought His divine power down into the very outmost plane of His life on earth. This is pictured by His removal from Nazareth to Capernaum on the shore of the Sea of Galilee. The sea pictures knowledges collected in the memory; and fish, the affections for such knowledges which can give them life and make them of use. So the Lord's first four disciples were fishermen, men who were symbolically trying to find truths for life in such knowledges as they had. When the Lord called them, they immediately recognized Him as the living truth and left their nets — that is, their own philosophies which they had been using — and followed Him. The Lord promised to make them fishers of men — to give them real spiritual truths in place of the natural truth on which they had been living. In a less interior sense, they became fishers of men when they went out to draw others into the Lord's kingdom by the preaching of the Gospel.

The first four disciples were to become the best known of the twelve apostles. The apostles, like the twelve sons of Jacob, represent all the capacities in us which may be brought into the service of the Lord, that is, turned from natural to spiritual ends. In @AE 820-821 (see below) we have perhaps the clearest and most complete statement of the meaning of the first four disciples and of their relation to the Lord. The accounts of their call given in Matthew, Mark, and Luke are substantially the same. The order of their call is similar to the order of birth of the first four sons of Jacob. Peter, like Reuben, represents truth or faith. In the Gospel of John (1:35-42) Andrew is represented as having been a disciple of John the Baptist and as having through him recognized the Lord and then informed his brother Simon. This is given to teach us that truth, or faith, to be of real service must be sought from a desire to obey it; so Andrew actually precedes Peter in time. After his call, however, he virtually disappears from the Bible story, just as Simeon in the later history of the Old Testament seems to merge into Judah. And is not this exactly the true picture? Our early desire to obey the Lord becomes, if we regenerate, the life of charity. James, like Levi, represents charity, and John represents the works of charity.

Swedenborg tells us that if our life develops in its true order from the desire to obey into the love of divine truth, then into the love of good or charity, and finally into genuine good works, the good works contain all the other qualities; this also explains why John was loved more than the others by the Lord. But we must not forget the true order of development. Good works — in the ordinary sense of external good deeds — done from any other motive than love to the Lord and obedience to His commandments, are not genuinely good. Swedenborg compares them to artificial fruit "which in external form appears like fruit from a tree, although it is colored wax containing within it dust or bitumen" (@DP 215[13]). Peter, James, and John, representing the reception of the Lord in thought, will, and act, became naturally the three who were closest to the Lord and who were allowed to witness things not seen by the others. To them were told the things to come, even though the individual men, as we know from the Gospel story itself, often did not understand or even remember what was told them.

The Lord's work in Galilee, summed up in verse 23, pictures His work in the external plane of our lives when we turn to Him for help in temptation. First He calls His disciples — makes use of all our qualities. Then He teaches in the synagogues — shows us true doctrine while we are in a state to receive it. He preaches the gospel of the kingdom — shows us the beauty and happiness of a life according to His laws. Finally He heals all manner of sickness and disease among the people — He helps us to overcome the bad habits and false thoughts which stand in the way of our spiritual health. Even the interests and activities in our lives which apparently have had no connection with our religion come to the Lord to be put right; these are the people from beyond Jordan.

Three types of sickness are specifically mentioned, and we can see that these picture evils in the three planes: those possessed with devils represent evils in the heart; the lunatic are falsities in the mind; and those that had the palsy picture the bad habits of conduct that make it difficult for us to carry out our good desires. All the good effects of the Lord's spirit follow in the train of sincere efforts to give up our own way and follow the Lord.

The Lord began His ministry with John's message: "Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." It is always at hand if we will do the work of repentance. "Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me." (Revelation 3:20) We open the door by repentance, by seeing our evils and our need of the Lord, and by turning to Him in His Word for guidance and strength.

