
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the sea and of fishing, boats, and nets should be discussed, stressing the difference between our own ideas and those of the Lord in connection with the meaning of discipleship.

---
The names Peter, James, and John are familiar to us all. They were the three who were closest to the Lord through the three years of His ministry. With Peter's brother Andrew, they were the first ones He called to follow Him.

Their home was at Capernaum on the Sea of Galilee and they were all fishermen. This was not an accident. The sea pictures knowledge gathered in the memory. Fish picture affections for such knowledge. Spiritual fishermen are those who love to draw up out of memory such knowledges as may be useful for life. It is these who hear the call of the Lord. When the Lord first saw them, the four men were in their ships. Two of them were "casting a net into the sea," and the other two were "mending their nets." Swedenborg tells us that a ship represents "doctrine," and that nets also represent doctrine. What is doctrine? It is simply teaching, truth formulated so that it can be expressed in words. It has sometimes been popular to say to ministers and Sunday school teachers, "Don't talk doctrine; talk about life and goodness." But when we talk about life and goodness, we are talking doctrine. Talking about charity and goodness is not charity and goodness, but doctrine. We can't say anything without talking doctrine. What we need to be sure of is that our doctrine is true and not false, and that means that it comes from the Lord and not from self. For we sometimes tell people as truth the things we want to believe, without stopping to find out whether or not they are really true.

Doctrine is represented in the Word by different kinds of containers, depending on the particular use which the doctrine is to serve. See if you can think out what the difference would be between doctrine as a ship and doctrine as a net. The ships in which the first disciples were sitting before they heard the Lord's call picture the general doctrines of the church in which they had been brought up. Their nets picture the ideas they had woven for themselves "to catch fish," that is, to make their knowledges useful in their daily life. They were called by the Lord to leave their ships and their nets and follow Him; that is, to turn from their religious doctrine and from their own ideas and go with Him to see what He would do for people and to listen to His teaching. The same call comes to us every day of our lives, the call to leave our natural ways of thinking and our own ideas and recognize the Lord as our leader and teacher.

The chapter goes on to tell some of the things the Lord did.

Study verse 23 carefully. You will see that the Lord did three things: He preached, He taught, and He healed. Now study verse 24 and think what were the different kinds of trouble people brought to Him for healing and what spiritual troubles they represent. We are sick in soul whenever we are unhappy or afraid or filled with hateful thoughts and feelings. We are possessed with devils when we can't seem to control our temper or our dislikes or our desire to hurt people. Whenever we cannot see why we should not always have our own way, we are lunatic. And whenever we just can't seem to do right no matter how hard we try, we have the palsy. Every weakness and disease mentioned in the Word has a particular meaning.

People of all kinds followed the Lord. It makes no difference whether we are rich or poor, bright or dull, black or white; we can all be followers of the Lord. He loves each one of us just as much as any other, and can help us in whatever way we need help. Through the Word He preaches, teaches, and heals today just as He did long ago in Galilee. And today by means of the wonderful things He has revealed to us in the Word by His Second Coming, we can understand His teaching much better than the early disciples did. They saw and heard Him in the flesh, but we can see and hear Him in the spirit — with our minds and hearts.

