
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The geography of Galilee is important for this class. Review the three divisions of the Holy Land and the cities especially associated with the Lord's life. Have the class look up the prophecy (Isaiah 9:1-2) quoted in our chapter and see how it is fulfilled in this lesson.

---
Where was the Lord born?

Where did He grow up?

The Lord was about thirty years old when He came from Nazareth to the Jordan to John to be baptized. Then followed the forty days in the wilderness, and after that He was ready to begin His ministry. He did not go back to Nazareth to live, the reason being given in the Gospel of Luke (4:16-32).

Where did He go instead?

Where is Capernaum?

This was to be His headquarters during the remaining years of His earthly life.

The Sea of Galilee plays a considerable part in the Gospel story.

You know that water pictures truth. A sea pictures knowledges gathered together in the memory, and the fish in it picture our affection for such knowledges. We all like to learn, even though sometimes we do not want to learn the things which are best for us to know. And we like to pull out of our memories the things we love best to think about. This is like fishing. The first four disciples were fishermen.

What were their names?

By what other name was Simon better known?

Read Matthew 16:13-18 to see how he got this name. Peter means a stone or rock. (See also John 1:42.)

When the Lord called Peter and Andrew, what did He tell them He would make of them?

This means that they would be able to draw out those who would really love the truth and obey it from among the great body of people for whom religion was a mere matter of memory knowledge.

These first four men whom the Lord called to follow Him were to become apostles. Apostle means "one sent forth." The Lord was to send them forth into the world to preach His gospel, or "good news," and to found the Christian Church. But first they must be disciples. A disciple is a learner or pupil. They went with the Lord everywhere, watching what He did and listening to His teaching.

In verse 23 we are told the three things which the Lord did in His ministry.

What were they?

What different kinds of ailments are described in verse 24?

If you think about it, you will see that these were troubles on the three different planes of life: will, thought, and act.

Which affected the will?

Which affected the thought?

Which affected the act?

Study a map of the Holy Land and see where Capernaum is and also some of the places mentioned in verse 25. Decapolis means "ten cities." It was the name of a Roman province embracing territory in both Palestine and Syria, east of the Jordan.

Some people followed the Lord just to be healed. But the four disciples were not sick. Why do you think they obeyed so quickly when He called them to follow Him? It was because they were good men and looking eagerly for the promised Messiah and so they were able to recognize Him when they saw Him, and they wanted nothing so much as to follow Him and learn of Him. You know there are two kinds of people in the world: those who just want to have their own way and get all they can for themselves, and those who want to find out what is right and do it and help other people. Each of us has to choose which kind of person he will be. The Lord calls each one of us to follow Him just as He called Peter and Andrew and James and John. And He is ready to teach us just as He taught them.

Where does He call us and teach us?

We should each want to obey His call as promptly as they did. And like them we must be disciples first, and soon we shall find that we are also apostles, for other people will be inspired to learn of Him, too, because our lives will show what His teaching can do for a man or woman.

