
=== Primary

The simple story is easy to tell the children. Tell them about the Sea of Galilee and try to have them learn the word Galilee. Stress the fact that Peter and Andrew were brothers and James and John were brothers, that they were all fishermen, and that Peter had two names. Describe the difference between fishing with a hook and fishing with nets, and be prepared with a simple explanation of what the Lord meant when He told them He would make them fishers of men. Tell the children that the Lord calls every one of us to follow Him and that we should be as willing as these first four disciples.

---
You remember that the Lord was born in Bethlehem. This was in the southern division of the Holy Land. Now do you remember where He grew up? It was in Nazareth, in the northern division. The Lord lived quietly in Nazareth until He was about thirty years old. Then He appeared before the people and began His public ministry. And He changed His home to a place called Capernaum.

Capernaum was also in the northern division of the land, the division known as Galilee, but it was on the eastern border of the land on the coast of the Sea of Galilee. Many of the people of Capernaum were fishermen, who owned boats on the Sea of Galilee and made their living by selling the fish they caught.

Our story today is about Jesus and four of these fishermen.

What did the Lord tell them?

Did they obey Him?

What two other brothers did He then see?

What were they doing?

What did they do when He called them?

These first four disciples are the ones about whom we read most in the Gospels. They went everywhere with the Lord and He taught them.

Disciple means a "learner" or pupil.

Verse 23 tells three kinds of things which the Lord did in His ministry. What were they?

What were some of the troubles the people had who came to Him to be healed?

Do you know that the Lord wants every one of us to be His disciple?

When you come to Sunday school, you are learning about the Lord, aren't you? The Lord calls every one of us to follow Him just as He did Peter and Andrew and James and John.

