
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The necessity of learning truth from the Word and following the Lord instead of our own ideas is the important subject for discussion. If we start with a false premise, the more we think the further we shall get from the truth. To "follow" the Lord is our first duty as Christians.

---
The Lord entered upon His public ministry at the age of thirty, and for three years He went about among men, as our chapter tells us, "teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the people." We read in this brief statement a summary of His ministry to the mind, the heart, and the outward life, not only to the people of Palestine two thousand years ago, but to all men in all time — to us today.

At the very beginning of His ministry He called His first four disciples, who were all later to be apostles also. The twelve apostles, like the twelve sons of Jacob, represent all our faculties and affections. The Lord calls them all to follow Him, calls them from their worldly preoccupations to concern for spiritual and living things, calls them first to be disciples, "learners," and then to go forth as apostles to help build the kingdom of heaven on earth. We should all desire to be apostles of the Lord, to bring the good news of salvation to all who need and want it. But we must be disciples first. For our own ideas of what is right and best are not the Gospel, and have no saving power for us or for anyone else.

The first disciples were fishermen on the Sea of Galilee. A sea represents knowledge stored in the memory; and fish, the affection for knowledge for its own sake. A ship represents doctrine in general — in the case of the four fishermen the doctrine of the church in which they had been brought up — and the nets, man-made ways of thought by which one draws from his memory what he most wants. There are many doctrines and many such systems of thought or philosophies in the world, and men are constantly busy "mending their nets." But the Lord calls us to follow Him, to learn of Him instead of looking to our own minds for light. And if we can read the lesson of the Word, we shall be like those first four who "straightway left their nets, and followed Him."

For the Lord speaks to us in His Word as clearly as He spoke to those who heard Him with their physical ears, and in these days of the Second Coming much more clearly and intelligibly. In John 8:31-32 He tells us: "If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed; And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." The truth which makes us free is not the reasonings of men but the truth as we find it in the Word. The reasonings of men, even of very learned men, are often based on false premises — the fundamental false premise being that men can discover the truth for themselves without looking to the Lord for light. And when we start with this fundamental false premise, we are not free: we are bound by our own limitations and by the appearances in the physical world around us. Our minds cannot rise above the plane of the natural world. And it is only by rising above the natural plane that we can see this world and our lives here in their true proportions and relations. This the Lord's truth enables us to do.

When the Lord stood on the shore of the Sea of Galilee and called four simple fishermen to leave their nets and follow Him, no one could have imagined that by obeying His call they would become world—famous figures, founders of the Christian Church, which was to change the whole face of civilization. It does not seem to us that by looking to the Lord in the Word for guidance instead of to ourselves and "modern thought," we shall travel further and accomplish more in the long run, but we should remember that "the long run" is eternity, and eternity is much more important than anything we can get for ourselves in this world.

