
=== Notes for Parents

There were three parts of the Lord's ministry: preaching, teaching, and healing. He preached in the synagogues. He taught in many surroundings, on mountaintops and by the seashore to great crowds of people, and in houses and quiet places apart to His close disciples. And everywhere He went He healed people of all kinds of diseases. The people probably thought that the miracles of healing were the most important part of His work. We all tend to think that our bodies are the most important part of us. But the Lord's miracles were just evidences of His power to do more important things for us, to help us get rid of selfish passions and wrong thoughts which make our souls sick. So the palsied man in our chapter for today is a picture of every one of us in the times when we mean to do right but just don't seem able to do it. The Lord shows us in the story of this miracle that first we must see our faults and want to be forgiven, and then we must make a real effort to walk in the right way.

The scribes and Pharisees were called hypocrites by the Lord because they pretended to keep all the laws more strictly than other people and yet were proud and scornful and hard and selfish. The new wine He came to bring was a new spirit of unselfish love and service to all mankind, and this could not be contained in the little petty regulations with which the scribes and Pharisees had burdened the people. The Lord never broke the commandments, but He brushed aside all the man-made rules which interfered with His ministry. He emphasized keeping the spirit of the Law. So He said that the sabbath was made for man. The sabbath is our opportunity to put aside a lot of the things that keep us so busy and tired during the week, and to think about the really important things which will last forever. Our bodies do need rest, but our souls need rest in the Lord; they need spiritual food, knowledge of the Lord and of what He wants us to be, and time to do some of the kind and helpful things for others which are crowded out during the week. Sunday should be the happiest day of the week because it brings us closer to the Lord, from whom all real happiness comes.

