
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Follow the same general outline as for the Older Children, but look in more detail at the summary of news given in @TCR 846-847. If time permits, discuss part of chapter 14 of @TCR 768 et seq.

---
In Swedenborg's work, @TCR 791, which is at the end of the last regular chapter in the book, it says that when this last great summary work of the doctrines of the New Church had been completed, "the Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day He sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that the LORD GOD JESUS CHRIST reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages, according to the prediction in Daniel 7:13-14 and Revelation 11:15. ... This took place on the nineteenth of June, 1770."

Throughout the history of the organized New Church, this date has been celebrated as New Church Day. It is a day to remind ourselves of how much we have to be grateful for, in that the Lord has permitted us to know about the revelation He made as the basis of a New Church in the world.

In the supplement to @TCR 846-847, Swedenborg records a remarkable conversation he had with some angels. It began when these angels asked him, "What is the news from the earth?" Here is an outline of his reply.

He said that the Lord had revealed many mysteries or secrets that had not been known before. Some of them are:

1. That in each and all things of the Word there is a spiritual sense corresponding to the natural sense; that by means of that sense the Word conjoins men of the Church with the Lord.

2. That the correspondences of which the spiritual sense consists have been disclosed.

3. That the Lord had made a new revelation about life after death.

a. About the nature of heaven and hell.
b. About the sun of the spiritual world.
c. That there are three degrees of life, and consequently three heavens.

4. That many other things had been revealed: regarding the Last Judgment, the Lord as being the God of heaven and earth, God as being one in person and in essence in whom is a divine trinity, a New Church to be established by Him, the doctrines of that church, the holiness of the @DSS, that the Apocalypse (book of Revelation) had been unfolded, and many more things.

If you would like to learn how this revelation constitutes the Lord's Second Coming, read in @TCR 768-790.

