
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Explain simply the spiritual meaning of Revelation 21:1-10. ("It treats of the state of heaven and the church after the Last Judgment ... after [which] ... the New Church will exist on earth [and] will worship the Lord." (@AR 875).) Then connect this meaning with the event described in @TCR 791.

---
Today we are celebrating the anniversary of something new in the world: something that the Lord has given for the benefit of all mankind. It was so important the Lord also told all the men and women and children in heaven about it.

What is this new thing that He gave us?

On what day did the Lord send out His disciples to tell everyone in heaven about this new thing?

What were they told to preach?

Our New Church teachings tell us that this was to fulfill a prophecy that was made in the Gospel. Look up Matthew 24:31 to see what that prophecy was.

Let us see if we can remember some of the new teachings which the Lord gave to the world to be used in His New Church:

1. He revealed that His Word has an inner spiritual meaning.

2. As we learn this spiritual meaning here in Sunday School and as we study at home, we find that the Bible really tells us all about heaven, all about the Lord, and all about the life that leads to heaven.

3. Although people had believed in a general way that there was a life after death, the Lord revealed through Swedenborg just what kind of life it would be. He described in full detail the way people live in heaven, and also in hell.

4. Another wonderful thing that the Lord revealed is that there is a new kind of love that is possible between a husband and wife if they truly love the Lord. He called this love conjugial love.

5. Many false ideas about what God wants of us were corrected.

One very important doctrine the New Church teaches is that the Lord Jesus Christ alone is to be prayed to and worshiped, for there is no other God besides Him, and He alone has power to save us from our sins.

We celebrate New Church Day on or near June nineteenth, the anniversary of the day the Lord sent His disciples out to tell the good news.

