
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Tell the children that when the Lord had finished revealing the teachings for a New Church, He sent His disciples all over heaven to tell this good news. Stress the term, "New Church Day." Look in some detail at the event described in @TCR 791. Then follow the notes as a guide.

---
You know what fun it is to have something brand—new — a new dress or pair of shoes, or a new toy. It is even more fun when it is a surprise. You are delighted and jump for joy. Remember on your last birthday when you got some nice new things? You probably received something that you had never had before, something that was brand—new.

Have you ever wondered why you like new things? It is partly because you can always learn something from them. They may help you discover something that you didn't know anything about before. When you first learned how to ride a tricycle you discovered a new thing — it made it possible for you to go faster and more easily to more places. You learned to do something new.

This week is the birthday of something new in the world, something that the Lord has given to be enjoyed by everyone in the whole world. But not only enjoyed. It is intended to help us all learn things we never knew before and do good things that the Lord wants us to know how to do. What is this new thing? We call it the New Church. And June 19 is called New Church Day, for that was the day long ago when the Lord sent His disciples out to tell everyone in heaven the good news that the teachings of His New Church had been made known to men on earth.

When the Lord was on earth at the time of His first coming, He taught His disciples many new and wonderful things about Himself, and about the way people should live if they want to come at last into heaven and be happy forever. Before Jesus left His disciples, He told them to go and "make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you." (Matthew 28:19-20)

Those who believed these teachings and were baptized were called Christians, from the Lord's name Christ. They became like one large family, with the Lord as the Father, and so they were called the "church," meaning the Lord's family.

Many hundreds of years later, the Lord in his wisdom saw that the time had come to give to men a new understanding of His truth. Many of the teachings He had given before were being taught wrongly, and people did not know that what the church was teaching was often not what the Lord wanted at all.

For this reason the Lord made known to His children a new understanding of His teachings, which He called the doctrines of a New Church. When all of these teachings had been given, and written down in books, the Lord called together in the spiritual world all the disciples who had been with Him in the world and sent them out to tell everyone in heaven the good news that now men on earth knew that the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns.

