
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
After discussing the significance of the event which led to naming June 19 as "New Church Day," and relating it to the first ten verses of Revelation 21, review briefly the new doctrines outlined in @TCR 846-847. If any time remains, interesting details of the spiritual meaning of Revelation 21:1-10 will be found in @AR 875, beginning at the subheading "THE CONTENTS OF EACH VERSE."

---
In Swedenborg's last great summary work, @TCR 791, which is the last paragraph at the end of the last regular chapter in the book, it says that when this work, this summary of the doctrines of the New Church, had been completed, "The Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day He sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that the LORD GOD JESUS CHRIST reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages, according to the prediction in Daniel 7:13-14 and Revelation 11:15. ... This took place on the nineteenth day of June, 1770."

This announcement heralded the descent of the Holy City from God out of heaven, described in Revelation 21:1-10. A summary of the spiritual meaning of these verses will be found in @AR 875, beginning at the subheading "THE CONTENTS OF EACH VERSE."

Throughout the history of the organized New Church, June 19 has been celebrated as New Church Day. It is a day to remind ourselves of how much we have to be grateful for, in that the Lord has permitted us to know about the revelation He has made as the basis of a New Church in the world.

Following the last chapter, in a supplement to @TCR 846-847, Swedenborg records a conversation he had with some angels, who had asked him, "What news from the earth?" Here is an outline of his reply.

He said that the Lord had revealed many mysteries or secrets of heaven that had not been known on earth before. Some of them are:

That in each and all things of the Word there is a spiritual sense corresponding to the natural sense; that by means of that sense the Word conjoins men of the Church with the Lord.

That the correspondences of which the spiritual sense consists have been disclosed.

That the Lord had made a new revelation about life after death:

About the nature of heaven and hell; About the sun of the spiritual world;

That there are three degrees of life and consequently three heavens.

That many other things had been revealed: regarding the Last Judgment, the Lord as being the God of heaven and earth, God as being one in person and in essence in whom is a divine trinity, a New Church to be established by Him, the doctrines of that church, the holiness of the @DSS, that the Apocalypse (book of Revelation) had been unfolded, and many more things. If you would like to learn how this revelation constitutes the Lord's Second Coming, read in @TCR 768-790.

