
=== Adult

The various levels of inner meaning in this story should interest the Adults. You will be able to tell by their first comments whether or not you need to spend time on the matter of mistranslation. If you do, put the emphasis on the importance of accurate translation of the Scripture. It is what the original text actually says that we should want to know, rather than what some person or group thinks it ought to say.

The book of Jonah is the fifth in the series of the twelve Minor Prophets, but historically Jonah is probably the first of them, for we are told in 2 Kings 14:25 that he lived in the time of Jeroboam 2 of Israel. Even so he was partly contemporary with Hosea, Amos, and Joel. He was from Gath-hepher, a town of Zebulun, and was a recognized prophet of Israel, but the particular story recorded in the book of Jonah is the only part of his message chosen by the Lord to make part of the Word.

In Matthew 12:38-41 the story of Jonah is cited by the Lord as a prophecy of His death and resurrection on the third day, and Swedenborg in @AE 538[11] interprets the prayer of Jonah from the belly of the fish as a description of the Lord's combats with the hells and victory over them. So Jonah can be classed definitely with the Messianic prophecies.

The book has its historical application, and it is this which Swedenborg principally gives in his summary of it in the Prophets and Psalms. There he tells us that Jonah's call and his reception of it (Jonah 1:1-3) picture the fact that "those who were of the Jewish nation were commanded to teach the Word to the nations round about, but they would not, and thus they kept the Word among themselves alone." Some Bible students outside of the New Church have recognized national pride and antipathy as the primary cause of Jonah's original refusal to go to Nineveh and also of his later disappointment when Nineveh was spared. Unfortunately these students are inclined to laud Jonah's patriotism rather than to deplore his disobedience. Swedenborg says, however, that chapter 2 is a "prophecy concerning the Lord's combats with the hells, and concerning His most grievous temptations at that time, and concerning His state at that time; the 'three days and nights during which Jonah was in the bowels of the fish,' signify the entire duration of the combat with the hells."

Both of these interpretations of the book of Jonah — in the celestial sense and in the internal historical sense — help us to get some insight into the spiritual sense, the sense which describes our individual experience. From its meaning in the Lord's life we see that it concerns deep temptations, and in its meaning with reference to the Hebrew nation we see that it has to do with our constant tendency to imagine that external piety excuses inner uncharitableness.

Jonah was obviously a prophet held in honor by his own people, since even Jeroboam 2, who was an evil king, heeded his words. Jonah was in the habit of receiving the word of the Lord and speaking it boldly. But the Lord unerringly picked his weak spot and brought him down from his high place for his own good, at the same time using him for the salvation of the Ninevites and even of you and me, if we follow the example of the Ninevites (Luke 11:29-32). How often we are willing to do everything but the one thing the Lord requires of us, which is to recognize that we have no goodness of our own and to accept His guidance in love to Him and to the neighbor!

Jonah took ship in the opposite direction from Nineveh. He "bought" a philosophy of life — a ship represents doctrine — which he thought would save him from the necessity of doing what he did not want to do. Then he immediately went down into the hold and went to sleep. This reminds us of Isaiah's description of the fast acceptable to the Lord (Isaiah 58:3-7) which ends: " ... and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh." How often we hide in excuses instead of facing ourselves squarely! Then the storm rises. We are not at ease. Everything goes wrong. What is the trouble? Casting lots always pictures submitting our lives to the judgment of the Lord's truth. The lot falls on Jonah, on the hidden fault. It must be brought out and examined and put out of our hearts before we can be at peace.

Jonah goes down into the depths in an effort to see and accept truth about himself — a state pictured by the great fish — for three days and three nights, a full state of spiritual combat. And by this process he is brought to a realization of his own weakness and of the Lord's goodness to him, of the divine providence which has directed his whole experience, to thanksgiving to the Lord for the lesson learned, and to the determination to be wholly obedient. Then he is cast out upon the dry ground. This is our experience whenever we are brought to see, acknowledge and repent of some deep fault in ourselves.

In the Spiritual Diary, Swedenborg says that Jonah's experience "actually happened" (see below). There is no more reason to question the miracle performed in Jonah's case than there is to question any of the miracles of the Word. Doubt of the miracles rests on a fundamental unwillingness to believe that there is anything superior to nature, that God is not a mere name but is the ever-present and ever-active creator, an unwillingness to believe that He creates new forms and controls the events of our lives. Such an unwillingness seizes upon every excuse to doubt and discredit the supernatural phenomena presented in the Word. The story of Jonah has been an especial target.

This is in part due to the use of the word "whale" in the King James translation of Matthew 12:40, a mistranslation which was carried over unchanged in the Revised Standard Version.* The Greek word, like the Hebrew word in Jonah 1:17, means any large fish or sea creature. It was used, for example, in the Odyssey to mean a seal or sea-calf. It did not take on the meaning of whale in the Greek, but later, after it had passed over into the Latin, it was adopted by science as the generic term for the whale family. Accurate translation is always essential to the study of the spiritual sense of the Word, and the history of the world's reception of the book of Jonah shows that it may also be very important for those who know nothing of the spiritual sense. Men are still trying to decide the question of whether a whale could or could not have swallowed Jonah, and in the process the message of the book is completely lost sight of. It is a modern case of making the Word of God "of none effect" by our tradition. We need to study the real meaning and application of the Book of Jonah not only for our own help, but that we may present it to others in such a way as to lift it to its proper level again, above the possibility of discredit by careless critics.

[* The New English and the Jerusalem Bibles translate it "sea—monster." Phillips has "great fish"; and Today's English Version, "big fish." -Editor]

