
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the details of the story is the best lesson for this class. Other points may be brought in by the way.

---
In our Bible the books of the twelve Minor Prophets, the last twelve books of the Old Testament, are not exactly in the true historical order. Jonah, whose book comes fifth, is probably the earliest of all. We learn from 2 Kings 14:25 that he was prophesying at least as early as the reign of Jeroboam 2, king of Israel. He was a prophet in Israel. We also learn from the same verse that he came from Gath-hepher, which was in the territory of Zebulun, and that he spoke other prophecies besides those recorded in the Word in the book of Jonah.

Jonah is undoubtedly the best known of the Minor Prophets.

This is because his book, unlike the others, is a story and a very unusual one. You may hear people make fun of "Jonah and the Whale," even people who ought to know better. The saving of Jonah was a miracle no more wonderful than any of the other miracles in the Bible. The seventeenth verse of our first chapter says that "the Lord prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah." And the Lord Himself, when He was in the world, referred to this story as a fact (Matthew 12:40) and said that it was a prophecy of His own death and resurrection. The common idea that the great fish was a whale comes from this passage in the Gospel, but we should know that "whale" is a mistranslation of the Greek word.

Let us think first of this meaning of the book of Jonah with reference to the Lord's life on earth. We know that the Word came from the Lord and that its inmost meaning always concerns His life. He came, as He said, "to fulfil" the law and the prophets (Matthew 5:17). This means that when He was in the world, He lived out before the eyes of everybody all the things He had been saying about Himself in the Word from the beginning. Sometimes the inmost meaning comes out in the letter, as it does in this story of Jonah.

But the story has a meaning for our lives, too, and a very important one. What was the trouble with Jonah? He was a prophet of the Lord and had probably spoken faithfully all the prophecies which the Lord had given him for his own people. But now the Lord had asked him to go to Nineveh with a message to another nation, the Assyrians, who were enemies of Israel, and he did not want to go. All through the Bible we see that the Jews of long ago despised the Gentiles. "Gentile" is merely a word used to describe people of another religion than one's own. To Jews Christians are Gentiles, as Mohammedans, Buddhists, and others are considered Gentiles by Christians. The Christian might just as truly consider a Jew a Gentile, although this is not customary. You remember how the Lord showed the Jews of that day in the parable of the Good Samaritan that they ought not to despise the Samaritans, who were Gentiles.

Jonah felt himself too good to be sent to Gentiles. We are like Jonah whenever we think we are too good or too old or too big to be asked to do any particular kind of useful work. Like Jonah, we may try to get out of doing some duty that is laid upon us. We may try to hide from our duty by becoming very busy about something else. Perhaps we make our lessons an excuse for not doing our chores around home, just as Jonah found that he had business which would take him in the opposite direction from Nineveh.

What happened to Jonah? The ship in which he had taken passage encountered a great storm and was in danger of being wrecked. Does this remind you of what often happens to us when we try to get out of doing what we know we ought to do? In the Word a ship is always a symbol of doctrine. Doctrine is not just something the minister talks about. It is any teaching or system of thought. The general ideas that we have chosen in order to determine what we shall do are doctrine. This is the "ship" in which we are riding the sea of our everyday thought and life. If our ideas are right, that is, if they are in harmony with the Lord's laws and plan, our ship will carry us safely — our sea will be calm. But when selfish ideas creep in, our ship runs into trouble. This is the storm. We do not always recognize that there is selfishness in our thoughts.

Jonah was asleep in the hold of the ship. But if we examine ourselves carefully with the Lord's help, which is pictured by the casting of lots, the lot will always fall on Jonah, and we shall have to bring him up into the light and find out just who he is and where he came from, and then throw him overboard.

Jonah really meant to be a good man. You notice it was he himself who told the sailors to save themselves by casting him into the sea. When he saw that his disobedience was making things hard for others, he preferred to pay the penalty himself. That was why the Lord could save him and use him finally to save the people of Nineveh. You should read the last two chapters of the book to get the end of the story, although we shall take it up next.

Now let us see just how Jonah was saved. We remember that water represents truth, or its opposite, falsity. The sea represents all the truths and falsities which we have gathered into our minds throughout our life. The living creatures in the sea, the fish, picture our affection for learning truth. So the Lord provided that Jonah should be saved by being swallowed by a great fish. If we at heart want to be good, to serve the Lord and the neighbor, we shall have the desire to learn from our experiences all that the Lord is trying to teach us through them. And this desire will stay with us until we have learned the lesson and are ready to obey. Read Jonah's prayer from the belly of the fish and notice that he was not asking to be saved from his predicament, but thanking the Lord for saving him from doing wrong. He was really thanking the Lord for the hard experience which had showed him his own selfishness and disobedience. This, too, is a lesson from the story of Jonah which we should take to heart. When we get into difficulties, we should not blame other people or the Lord for them. We should know that the Lord is letting them come to us to teach us a lesson we need and which we have refused to learn by any easier way. We should be grateful to our parents for punishing us when we do wrong. They do it only because they know that if they let us go on doing wrong, we shall be much unhappier later. The willingness to learn from our experiences is the great fish that saved Jonah and let him go on doing the Lord's work.

