
=== Junior

Have the class look up the Bible references, mentioning in connection with Matthew 12:40 the fact that the word "whale" which appears in some versions is a mistranslation. Impress the children with the importance given the book by the Lord Himself. Then show them how the story applies to their own experience.

---
Now we come to a story which almost everybody knows, the story of Jonah. We usually hear it referred to as "Jonah and the Whale," and we unfortunately sometimes hear people make fun of it. Scientists discovered long ago that the passage through the throat of the ordinary whale is much too small to admit of the whale's swallowing a man. But we should notice that the Bible does not say a whale but a great fish, and further it says: "the Lord had prepared a great fish." This is one of the miracles of the the Bible, and it is not a bit more remarkable than any of the others. So we should not let people's questions about this simple fact lead our minds away from seeing the wonderful things the Lord is teaching us through the prophet Jonah.

Jonah was one of the twelve Minor Prophets, whose books are the last in the Old Testament. He is generally considered to have been the earliest of them, and his historical position is fairly well established by the reference to him in 2 Kings 14:25. He was one of the prophets of the kingdom of Israel, and we see from the statement in 2 Kings that he came from Gath-hepher, which was in the territory of Zebulun, and that he was given other messages from the Lord for the people of his nation and time — messages which were not among those chosen by the Lord to be recorded in the Word.

Where did the Lord tell Jonah to go with a prophecy?

Why was the Lord sending him?

Was Jonah willing to obey?

How did he try to escape?

Sometimes, when we are faced with a duty which we do not want to perform, we behave very much as Jonah did. We immediately decide that we have business elsewhere, or we become suddenly very active in some other way, or we "bury" ourselves in a book — anything to get out of doing the particular thing we know we ought to do. Usually we do not have very much better success in escaping than Jonah did.

What happened to his ship?

How did the sailors find out who was responsible?

Who suggested casting Jonah into the sea?

You can see from the story that Jonah really meant to be a good man, because when he found that his cowardice was endangering other people, he was willing to give up his life for their sakes. This was a virtue in him, but it is a virtue which is really not uncommon. People are often more willing to do some big, spectacular thing than to do their duty day by day. The sailors, too, were well—meaning men. They did their best to save themselves without sacrificing Jonah even though he admitted he was to blame for their danger, and when they found it was really necessary to throw him into the sea, they prayed (to his God) to be forgiven.

But Jonah showed another and much greater virtue. Read carefully chapter 2.

Did Jonah pray to be saved from death?

No, in his prayer he expresses thanksgiving to the Lord for the experience through which he is passing, and the firm belief that even in his unhappy position the Lord is near and able to hear his prayer, and he pledges obedience to the Lord.

This was the reason why the Lord could save Jonah, and we can learn from it something that is very important to remember all our lives. Our troubles never come from the Lord. They are always the result either of our own shortcomings or of evils that have been allowed to go unchecked in the world around us. The Lord never lets troubles catch up with us that we cannot turn into blessings if we meet them in the right way. Our troubles should lead us first to look for our own faults and try to correct them; then they should lead us to turn to the Lord for guidance and help; and finally they should make us more sympathetic and helpful when other people are in trouble. We know that our muscles do not develop strength by always doing only easy things. Neither do our "spiritual muscles."

After Jonah was saved, he kept his vow of obedience and went to Nineveh and delivered the Lord's message there. We shall study the rest of his story next, where we will see the good which came to the people of Nineveh through Jonah's mission. This is referred to by the Lord Himself in Luke 11:29-32. And in Matthew 12:38-41 the Lord also cites Jonah's experience as a prophecy of His own death and resurrection. This makes us realize how careful we should be not to belittle or to make light of anything in the Word. There is nothing in the Word which does not have a deep meaning within it. Our constant effort should be to find and be led by that meaning.

