
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class it will be worthwhile to discuss at some length the fallacies involved in the criticism of the story of Jonah, because young people of this age can hardly have failed to be exposed to such criticism, and it is usually the first thing that comes to their minds when Jonah is mentioned. Then show them in every possible way what a remarkable and important book Jonah is.

---
Swedenborg says that the experience of Jonah "actually happened." Probably most people today would not believe this. In studying the book of Jonah it seems worthwhile to spend a little time on one small point of translation, because a mistranslation has contributed materially to the failure of many people to appreciate this book and get help from it. In the passage in the Gospels (Matthew 12:40) in which the Lord refers to the story of Jonah, the "great fish" of Jonah 1:17 is called by the translators [of KJV and RSV] a "whale." The Greek word used in this passage means exactly what the Hebrew word in Jonah means — any great fish or sea creature. But, doubtless because the Latinized form of the Greek word had come in later times to be applied to the genus of whales, the King James translators said "whale." This led to inquiry as to whether a whale really could swallow a man, and scientists said no. It apparently made no difference that the creature had not originally been called a whale or that it was said to have been "prepared" by the Lord, and so specifically placed in the category of miracles. With many, the story of Jonah was discredited and then ridiculed, and it is still discredited even by people who accept as facts many much more remarkable miracles found in the Word. And devout Bible readers, instead of pointing out the source of the difficulty, have unfortunately merely devoted themselves to hunting the seas for a whale that really could have swallowed Jonah. So the world at large has gone on missing the point of the book of Jonah.

This is especially strange when the Lord Himself referred to it as a true story and called it a prophecy of His death and resurrection. Swedenborg explains in detail in @AE 538[11] the prayer of Jonah from the fish's belly as it describes the Lord's combats with the hells, especially during the three—day period when His body lay in the tomb, although he says that the three days represent the fullness of his states of combat and victory throughout His life in the world.

Swedenborg also, in his summary explanation of the Prophets and Psalms, points out the application of the book of Jonah to the inner states of his times, especially the attitude of the ancient Jews toward Gentile nations, saying that they — who had the Word — were commanded to teach it to the nations round about, but would not. This is pictured by Jonah's unwillingness to take the Lord's message to Nineveh, the Assyrian capital, and his subsequent behavior when the people of Nineveh believed his message and repented. We shall study this part of the story next.

There are other lessons in the story of Jonah, however, which come nearer to our own daily experience. The first and most obvious one is that when Jonah tried to run away from the duty he found distasteful, he fell into difficulties. We have all done this same thing. With Jonah the commission he found displeasing was the command to carry the Lord's message to a Gentile nation, an enemy of his own people. We are sometimes made aware that we can in some way help a person we dislike or despise, perhaps someone who has injured us. Our first reaction is likely to be unwillingness and a tendency to argue ourselves out of a distasteful task. Jonah took ship for Tarshish and immediately went down into the hold of the ship and went to sleep. A ship always represents "doctrine," a system of ideas which has been developed and has become an attitude of mind. In this case we fall back on our accustomed way of thinking about the person in question and try to close our ears to the call of duty. But the very presence of this selfish attitude in the mind is disturbing, and presently we find we have to acknowledge it and take it out and look at it honestly, just as the sailors woke Jonah up, brought him out of the hold, and then, after the lot fell on him, asked him who he was and where he came from.

If, like Jonah, we admit our fault and are willing to sacrifice our selfish feelings in the interest of the common good, the Lord can save us and bring us back and give us another chance. The great fish represents a genuine affection for the truth; this means an interest in finding out the truth for the sake of amending the life. We often need to ask: What was my real motive in turning my back on this duty? Do I really have this deep selfishness in me? Is it possible for the Lord to lead me out of such a depth? It is such searching questions as these which are reflected in Jonah's prayer from the belly of the great fish. The three days and three nights represent fullness of experience of alternating doubt and enlightenment. We notice that the last verse of Jonah's prayer is an expression of thanksgiving, not for the deliverance from his predicament - which he has not yet experienced — but for the suffering which has led him to see his fault and recognize the Lord's constant presence and power to save. And he pledged obedience for the future. Then he was returned to "dry land." His mental conflict had been resolved, and he was ready to go on with his life.

Jonah was probably the earliest historically of the twelve Minor Prophets. 2 Kings 14:25 tells us that he lived in the time of Jeroboam 2 of Israel, and that he was from Gath-hepher, a town in the territory of Zebulun. As this verse refers to another prophecy of his, we know that he was not raised up just for the mission to Nineveh, but was one of Israel's recognized prophets, who doubtless had given them many messages from the Lord. This knowledge forms a background against which his disobedience in the case of Nineveh stands out all the more strikingly.

