
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The excuses given by Moses are perhaps the most fruitful source of discussion material for adults. Their Egyptian period should be over, and the question is, what are they doing with their lives? what are they doing for the Lord and the church?

---
The Israelites came down into Egypt to be protected and fed by Joseph during the years of famine. But because they were given the best of the land to dwell in and prospered in a worldly sense better than in their own land, they did not go back, and eventually, although they preserved their national identity, they forgot their home and even the name of their own God. We do this when we feel the lack of knowledge necessary to a useful life but, when we find it, become so interested in the knowledge of itself and so self-satisfied that we forget the true purpose of life altogether.

The life of Moses is divided into three periods of forty years each, and we remember that the number forty represents fullness of temptation. His first forty years was spent in Egypt in the court of Pharaoh, where he was educated in the learning of the most intellectually active nation in the world at that time, and also, through his mother, in the traditions of the Hebrews. The second forty were spent in the land of Midian, in the southeastern portion of the Sinai Peninsula. Midian in a good sense represents a state of childlike faith and obedience — Midian was a son of Abraham (Genesis 25:1-4). When worldliness threatens to master us and we awake to the necessity of saving our higher nature, our first need and impulse is to go back to the simple trust and obedience of our childhood, and to reestablish the good habits developed in that state.

But we cannot remain in the Midian state. Many people today try, as they say, to go "back to Jesus," back to an unreasoning acceptance of the finite human picture of Christ, closing their minds to the real problems involved in a rational consideration of the claim and teachings of Christ and to the need of the modern world for just such rational understanding, and imagining that this is the only way to save their souls. But when we remain too long in blind faith, Midian becomes an enemy, eating up the new developments and opportunities which are presented to us which ought to lead us to greater spiritual insight and usefulness, as the Midianites of Gideon's time spread over the land like grasshoppers and destroyed the harvest. The Lord has more for us to do than merely to save our own souls alive. Moses was called to go back to Egypt and free his people. Moses, as we know, represents divine law. It is divine law which leads us out of bondage to worldliness and materialism.

The call to undertake this "going out" comes as a sudden prompting from divine love in the rudimentary truths we have stored in our memory: the fire in the bramble bush. It is significant that when Moses saw the burning bush, he was at Horeb, close to Sinai, and was feeding the flock. The call comes to us in moments when we are thinking of the commandments and trying to preserve something of the innocence which the Lord has stored up deep within us in the "remains" of our childhood states. The writings tell us that without these remains no one could be saved. Whenever we have sufficiently prepared the way in ourselves and the Lord sees that we are mature and strong enough to take a forward step, He brings to our consciousness something out of these remains to make us feel that He is present with us and urging us to new endeavor. But the first thing the voice said to Moses was: "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground." If the Lord is to communicate with us, we must first put aside the everyday, selfish considerations which we call "practical," and be ready to listen to His voice even though it may point us to unexpected and difficult undertakings.

We do not hear the Lord speaking when we are bent on listening to the voice of the world.

Moses was not eager to accept the commission offered him.

He raised several objections. The first was a legitimate one: "Who am I" that I should do this great thing? His sense of his own weakness and unworthiness was praiseworthy and was answered by the Lord's assurance: "Certainly I will be with thee." Then he pleaded ignorance: he did not know even the name of his God. We often do this when we are asked to teach Sunday school or to lead a discussion group, or to make some new missionary effort: "I don't know enough myself." We should recognize this as an excuse, not a reason. The Lord answered it by telling Moses His name, a name signifying the quality of a thing. The Lord is giving us as well as Moses the simplest and most comprehensive information about Himself when He says: "I AM THAT I AM ... Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me unto you." In the Hebrew Jehovah is another form of "I am." Jehovah is the name of the Lord which, we learn from Swedenborg, is always used in the Word when the divine love is under consideration, just as Elohim (translated "God") is used to express the activity of the divine truth. If we know that in the King James version of the Bible [a similar device is followed in the Revised Standard Version. See RSV footnote at Exodus 3:15. -Editor] Jehovah is almost always translated "the LORD" (in small capitals) and Elohim "God," we shall find the use of these names a very enlightening study. When we read "the LORD God," the Hebrew is Jehovah Elohim, and the emphasis is on the activity of divine love and divine wisdom together. When, therefore, the Lord tells Moses that His name is I AM, He is saying that He, divine love, is Life itself — the one reality and source from which everything in the universe has its life and its existence. To recognize this is basic to any belief in God and trust in Him. In the chapter which follows our lesson the Lord gives Moses the power to work certain miracles which will help to convince his people, as well as Pharaoh, that he is really commissioned by the Lord. Then Moses raises a final objection. He says that he is not eloquent but is "slow of speech, and of a slow tongue." How often we raise this objection when we are asked to approach others with the message of our church! And the Lord says to us, as to Moses: "Who hath made man's mouth? or who maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I, the Lord? Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say." Read here Luke 12:11-12. And the Lord gave Moses Aaron his brother to go with him and to speak for him. We are told in the writings (@AC 6998) that Moses here represents the truth as it proceeds from the Lord and Aaron the "doctrine of good and truth of the church." When we are called either to amend our own lives or to engage in missionary efforts for the church, we need to realize that if we recognize that the work is the Lord's work and the truth His truth and sincerely desire to serve Him and the neighbor, not looking to ourselves for wisdom and power, He will be with us and put the right words in our mouths. Our failures come from self-consciousness and from trust in self rather than in the Lord.

Another incident in our chapter for today should be noted.

The Lord told Moses (verses 21,22) that when the time came for them to leave Egypt, He would give them favor in the eyes of the Egyptians and that every woman should "borrow of her neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment." This promise was carried out (Exodus 12:35, 36), and the things received from the Egyptians in this way were later used in the construction of the tabernacle. When we turn from worldly living to begin our journey to the promised land of heavenly character, we do not discard everything we learned in our former life. We take with us all the knowledge we have acquired which can be serviceable to our new life. To "spoil" the Egyptians is to remove these knowledges from their merely worldly context so that they can be made to serve their true use. Knowledge is power: power for evil or power for good, according to the use we make it serve.

