
=== Intermediate

The meaning of the call of Moses and of the burning bush should be brought out with this class, as well as the relationship of the Midianites to the Israelites and why Moses fled from Egypt to Midian and lived there so long before he was called to his real task. Emphasize the fact that the Lord never asks us to do something until He sees that we are really able to do it, and that He is always with us when we obey him. When we do wrong, it is easy to say, "I couldn't help it," but that is never true.

---
Every time we face some new task for which we are not properly prepared, we have to go down into Egypt. And this is just as true of our spiritual progress as it is of our occupations in the world. We often come to problems which we do not know how to solve. We say, "I don't know what is really right for me to do in this matter." Then we search our memories to find the right answer, and there we find Joseph. You remember that Joseph pictures the desire to do right in the Lord's sight. Joseph gave his brothers grain from the stores which had been laid up for just this time of famine. Our "Joseph" draws instruction for us from the letter of the Word where the Lord has stored it up for us. Then, you remember, Jacob and all his family came down into Egypt, and Pharaoh — because of his gratitude to Joseph — gave them the rich land of Goshen, the Nile delta, to live in. And there they settled down to live in plenty under Joseph's protection until the famine should be over.

Sometimes people find that answers to all life's problems can be found in the Bible; but they get so fascinated studying the Bible they forget why they went to it in the first place. Some people go to college and fall in love with learning, and go on learning all their lives and forget that learning is of no value unless we use it as a means to help other people. All knowledge is meant to be used in service to the Lord and the neighbor, and if we become absorbed in just acquiring more and more knowledge, we are like the children of Israel who were so well fed and so contented in the land of Egypt that they forgot to go back to the Holy Land. You know the story of how they finally became slaves there. People can become slaves to learning.

The children of Israel stayed in Egypt for many, many years — possibly more than two hundred. They had forgotten the Lord, but the Lord had not forgotten them. When they finally realized their unhappy condition and longed to be freed from it, He raised up Moses to lead them back to their true home. Everyone knows the story of how Moses was saved when he was a baby by being put into the little basket of rushes on the river brink, and being discovered by Pharaoh's daughter when she went down to bathe. He was brought up in the Egyptian court as Pharaoh's daughter's adopted son, and was given the education of an Egyptian ruler at a time when Egypt was the center of learning of the world. But Moses also had his own mother as his nurse, and from her he learned the traditions of his own people and so came to feel himself a Hebrew. And when he was a man, his sympathies were with the Hebrews. He lived in Egypt for forty years, and then had to flee because he killed an Egyptian who was striking a Hebrew slave.

He spent his next forty years in the wild, mountainous region called Midian, the southeastern tip of the Sinai Peninsula, tending the flock of his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. Midian, for whom this country was named, was the son of Abraham by Keturah, whom he married after Sarah died, and the Midianites had remained in the wilderness and had preserved the simple faith and worship of Abraham's day. In one of our earlier lessons we learned that they were merchantmen traveling through the surrounding regions and engaging in trade. They had a part in the Lord's plan for saving Joseph. They picture the kind of simple belief in God which we have when we are children; and sometimes, when we realize that our worldly learning is becoming too absorbing, we have to go back to that state of simple faith for a time until we have stored up enough spiritual strength to face the world in a better way. But we are not meant to stay in Midian. In religion as well as in everything else, our minds are given us to use.

There came a day when Moses was feeding his flocks in the wilderness near Horeb, the range of mountains of which Sinai is one, and his attention was attracted by a strange sight: a bush that was apparently on fire but was not being burned up. You may remember from the Creation story that vegetation pictures the springing up of thoughts in our minds. A bush is not a short-lived plant like grass; neither is it a tall tree. It pictures an idea which has developed in our minds over a period of time but has not yet become big enough to seem very important. Sometimes at the right moment such an idea inspires us to go out and do something really great. It seems suddenly to be on fire. And when we examine it more closely, we feel that the Lord is really speaking to us in that idea. So as Moses approached the bush, he heard the Lord's voice saying, "Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground." Our shoes in which our feet walk from day to day represent our everyday, practical considerations. If we really feel inspired to do something big for someone and feel that the Lord has put the thought into our minds, we must put aside our ordinary, selfish ideas, and prepare ourselves to obey the Lord. The Lord tells us, just as He told Moses, that if we obey Him, He will be with us and help us to accomplish what we undertake to do for Him.

Now read verse 14. Moses and his people had even forgotten the name of their God, although they knew that their fathers had worshiped a different God from the god of the Egyptians. You are familiar with the name Jehovah. That is one form of the Hebrew word meaning "I am." What does "I am" mean? We know that everything in the world had a beginning. Each of us, even though we are to live forever, had a beginning. We did not make ourselves. The Lord made each of us and everything in the world, as we learned in our first lesson. But who made God? Verse 14 is the answer: No one made God — God is. He is Life itself, the first and the last, as the book of Revelation tells us. Everything else comes from Him. Moses knew that the Egyptians made their gods, which were idols. But the God of the Hebrews was not an idol, but the living being who was the source of all life in the world. We call Him our heavenly Father and know that centuries after the time of Moses He came into the world in person as Jesus Christ so that we can know just what kind of person He is.

Chapter 4 tells us of certain signs which the Lord gave Moses so that he would feel perfectly sure that the Lord's power was with him. Moses did not feel very sure of himself and he needed this reassurance. We sometimes think we are not strong enough or wise enough to do what the Lord asks us to do, and we need to be reassured in the same way. We hear the Lord's voice in our consciences and we learn our duty.

