
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Have the Older Children study a map for the relative locations of the Holy Land, Egypt, and the land of Midian. Have them look up Genesis 25:1-2 to find the birth of Midian, and Judges 6:1-6 to see how the Midianites later turned against the children of Israel. The Older Children can understand the meaning of being so prosperous that we forget all about the Lord, and that we sometimes have to get into trouble before we realize our need of going back to the Holy Land where we really belong. It is good for the children to get into the habit of thinking of the Holy Land as meaning a truly good life. Have them look up also Deuteronomy 6:10-12.

---
Jacob died in Egypt, but Joseph took his body back and buried it in the cave of Machpelah where Abraham and Sarah, Isaac and Rebekah, and Leah were buried. On this journey he was accompanied by many of the rulers and elders of the Egyptians as well as by his brothers. When Joseph himself died, he made his relatives promise that when they went back to the Holy Land to live, they would take his body back with them. His body was "embalmed" in Egypt. This meant that it was preserved by being treated with certain aromatic oils. The Egyptians in those days knew how to do this, and that is why archaeologists sometimes find "mummies," or preserved bodies, in the ancient tombs in Egypt even today.

But the children of Israel were comfortable and prosperous in the land of Goshen, and forgot that they ought to go back to the Holy Land. When everything is going well in our lives, we are liable to forget that we are in this world to serve the Lord and the neighbor and not just to get things for ourselves. They stayed there more than two hundred years, and after a while the Egyptians began to be anxious because these strangers were increasing so fast. They were afraid they might become strong and turn against the Egyptians. So finally a Pharaoh arose "who knew not Joseph" and made the children of Israel slaves, loading them with heavy work and trying to prevent them from increasing. He even ordered all the boy babies to be killed as soon as they were born. Moses, however, as we have learned, was saved by his mother by being put into an "ark" or covered basket of bulrushes on the brink of the river, where he was found and adopted by Pharaoh's daughter.

Moses was brought up in the court of Pharaoh and educated in all the learning of the Egyptians, but his own mother was his nurse and from her he learned about his own people and their traditions and came to feel as an Israelite. We learn from another part of the Bible (Acts 7:23) that he lived in Egypt for forty years. Then one day while trying to defend one of his own people, he killed an Egyptian and had to flee from Egypt. He went to the land of Midian. On the map you will find this land at the southeastern corner of the Sinai Peninsula. Midian, from whom this people took their name, was a son of Abraham by Keturah, whom Abraham married after the death of Sarah; so the people of Midian were related to the children of Israel. Moses was received into the home of the priest of Midian. His name was Reuel, but he is usually called Jethro, which means "his excellence" and was probably an honorary title. Moses married his daughter and settled down to tend the flocks of his father-in-law, wandering about the country to find pasture for them, as the shepherds did in those days. He remained in Midian for the second forty years of his life.

Now comes our story for today.

Where do we find Moses?

Horeb is the name of a group of peaks, of which one is Sinai, from which later the commandments were to be given (verse 12).

What strange sight did Moses see there?

Who spoke to him from the bush?

From the Hebrew tradition which his mother had taught him, Moses knew that the Hebrews had a God of their own who had made promises to the patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but that had been hundreds of years before. It looked as though their God had forgotten them. Think what it must have meant to Moses when the voice from the burning bush said, "I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob"! The children of Israel had been in Egypt so long that Moses did not even know the Lord's name.

What name did the Lord give Himself when Moses asked Him?

This seems a strange name, doesn't it? But if you think a little, you will see what it means. No one made the Lord or gave Him life. He is Life itself, from whom all life comes to the world and to each of us. He is really the only one who can say, "I am." The Hebrew word Jehovah is one form of this same word, "I am." What did the Lord tell Moses he was to do?

Moses was afraid he would not be able to accomplish so great a task. What did the Lord tell him? (verse 12)

He also gave Moses the power to perform miracles, and gave him the help of his brother Aaron. And He promised still another kind of help to the people. Read verses 21 and 22 and see what they were to be allowed to take with them out of Egypt. When you read in later chapters of the gold and silver and jewels which were used in the making of the tabernacle and its furnishings, and the materials used for the curtains of the tabernacle and the clothing of the high priest, you will remember where they got these things. And when you are older you will understand what this "borrowing" from the Egyptians means. Moses was to live another forty years during which he did lead his people out of Egypt and back to the point where they could enter the Holy Land.

