
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The story of the burning bush is a dramatic story and one which is easy to tell. The children can understand that the Lord was giving Moses a hard thing to do, but that the Lord will always help us if we do right. Review briefly the story of the birth of Moses and of his early life in Egypt and the cause of his going to Midian. Moses will be the leading figure for several lessons, and the children need to understand how he was chosen and prepared by the Lord for his task.

---
Joseph became a very great man in Egypt. He was next to the king in the government. When a time of famine came, his father and his brothers and their families all came down to Egypt to get food. Joseph forgave his brothers. and Pharaoh allowed him to give them homes in the best part of the land.

When the famine was over, they should have gone back to the Holy Land, but Egypt seemed to them an easier country to live in and so they stayed on, and for a long time they prospered and their numbers increased greatly.

But after Joseph died, there was no one in Egypt to protect them, and little by little the people of Egypt came to be anxious because these strangers were increasing so fast in their land. The Pharaohs began to oppress them and finally made them slaves. Their lives became harder and harder.

About two hundred years passed and they forgot all about their own country and even forgot the name of their own God. But God had not forgotten them. He provided that one of them, whose name was Moses, should be specially protected and trained until he could be their leader. Moses grew up in Egypt but when he was grown up, Pharaoh became angry with him and he had to run away.

Moses fled to the land of Midian and lived there for forty years. He married the daughter of Jethro, the priest of Midian.

Where was Moses when the Lord called him?

What was he doing?

Where did the Lord's voice seem to come from? What did the Lord tell him?

Was Moses eager to undertake the task the Lord gave him?

How did the Lord reassure him?

What name did the Lord give Himself?

The name Jehovah is a form of the Hebrew for "I am."

Moses was afraid he would not be able to persuade Pharaoh to let the people go.

So the Lord gave Moses power to work miracles.

He also told Moses that his brother Aaron would help him. Then Moses was willing to obey the Lord.

