
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The difference between carrying on our occupations for the sake of worldly prosperity, and carrying them on as a means of serving the Lord and the neighbor, is the important lesson for this age. They are about to enter the Egyptian period and should be warned to keep always in mind that their real home is the Holy Land, and that all they learn should be regarded in the light of its possible service to the Lord and the neighbor. They can also be serving the Lord and the neighbor every day in their relations with others, if they have this in mind.

---
The slavery into which the children of Israel fell through their long stay in Egypt is a picture of the slavery to worldliness into which we may fall if we forget what the real purpose of life is. Eventually almost everyone recognizes this slavery: the businessman is seen to be a slave to his office, the housewife a slave to her housework, and so on. Only when we think of our occupations as means of serving the Lord and the neighbor can we find true freedom and happiness in our daily work. The Israelites had forgotten their true home and even the name of their God, but the Lord had not forgotten them. The Lord is always at hand watching for openings in our armor of self-satisfaction and worldly living, and prepared to raise up a Moses to lead us back to our true home.

We learn from Acts 7:23 that Moses remained in Egypt at the court of Pharaoh for forty years. The number forty pictures a full state of temptation or testing. Egypt at that time was the world's center of learning. The greatest library in the world was being gathered in Egypt. Parts of the Ancient Word may have been there in the time of Moses. (Swedenborg tells us that the first eleven chapters of our Bible were taken by Moses from the Ancient Word.) Correspondences were well known in Egypt. This knowledge was the basis of their hieroglyphic writing, and — perverted - was the power which enabled the so—called "wise men" of Pharaoh to duplicate several of the miracles of Moses.

But Moses, in spite of the learning of Egypt, still felt himself a Hebrew, and we recall that it was through his slaying of an Egyptian for smiting a Hebrew slave that he fell under Pharaoh's displeasure and was forced to flee to the land of Midian, where our lesson for today finds him. His first attempt to serve his people had shown him his own weakness and timidity. He was not ready for his great call. The Midianites in a good sense picture a simple, childlike state of faith and obedience. Moses remained in Midian for another forty years, keeping the flocks of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian. In this period nothing hard was given him to do; it was a time of preparation — not of further learning, but of establishing the habit of trust and obedience. The Lord always withholds temptations from us until we are strong enough to meet them if we will (see 1 Cor. 10:13).

Then Moses one day came to Horeb (the range of mountains of which Mount Sinai is one) and saw the burning bush. Bushes - small vegetable growths — represent ideas that are in our minds from the knowledges we have acquired. The flame in the bush is divine love speaking to us through these truths, calling us to do more than save our own souls. In every sincere life the time comes when we hear such a call: when we realize that there is something for us to undertake for others. Moses was reluctant, as we are often reluctant, to leave his quiet, solitary, safe wanderings and undertake a bold and difficult task. But the Lord promised to be with him and went on to give him practical demonstrations of the power that would be his if he obeyed. Chapter 4 teaches us how the Lord leads us to feel the reality of the power which only He can give us.

A name signifies the quality of a thing. The name which the Lord gave Himself — "I am" (the Hebrew Jehovah) — expresses the essential quality of the Lord, for He is Life itself, the only person who can truly say, "I am."

