
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson is so familiar to every adult that the teacher need only cover briefly the background of the visit of the Wise Men and the correspondence of the three gifts and then ask what points the class would like to discuss. The question of the reason for the Advent may be raised by the class. The teacher may be helped with this by referring to the first lesson from Matthew, which precedes this lesson in this volume.

---
We have seen that the Ancient Church possessed the Ancient Word and the knowledge of correspondences. When it ceased to be interested in serving the Lord and began to use its knowledge for worldly and selfish ends — the state pictured by the building of the Tower of Babel — the Lord took away from it the knowledge of the spiritual meaning of its forms and symbols so that it fell into various idolatries and its people were scattered over the face of the earth. One group — Abram and his family — were chosen as the basis for the formation of the Israelitish Church. The other groups continued their development separately in various places and were the beginning of the many pagan nations which we find in the world today. At the start they still possessed the Ancient Word and considerable knowledge of its meaning — Swedenborg says that in his day the Ancient Word was perhaps still in existence in Great Tartary$ — and some among them venerated the book and cherished the knowledge they drew from it so that some study of correspondences persisted. With the evil, this took the form of magic and sorcery, but there were always good individuals who felt it to be their choicest possession.

[*Tartary: Historically an indefinite region in Asia and Europe, extending from the Sea of Japan to the Dnieper River. — Merriam Geographical Dictionary]

The Wise Men who came to the Lord from the East were such good individuals. They knew and remembered ancient prophecies of the coming of the Messiah and the knowledge that He was to be born in the land of Canaan and to be "king of the Jews." They also looked for a star as the sign of His coming. The prophecy of the star comes into our Word from the mouth of Balaam (Numbers 24:17), who came from the same eastern country as the Wise Men. Balaam showed in other ways that he possessed some knowledge of correspondences, as we learn from the directions he gave Balak for altars and sacrifices, but he was an evil man who tried to use his knowledge to advance himself. When the Wise Men in the East saw the star, they knew what it meant and were willing to take the long journey to the Holy Land to pay homage to the Messiah and to lay their gifts at His feet, the gifts themselves being chosen for their correspondence. The number of Wise Men is not given in the Word, nor are their names given, although tradition says that there were three (probably because of the three gifts) and even names them.

We recall that the sun, moon, and stars picture love to the Lord, faith in Him, and knowledges of heavenly things. When the Lord came into the world, it was to give men sure knowledge about Himself and about true heavenly life. So the star was the natural and beautiful symbol of His coming. It was not a material star; there is no record that anyone saw it except the Wise Men, and it obviously appeared and disappeared in no ordinary way. But the shepherds at Bethlehem saw a great light. Both the light and the star were spiritual appearances, and the spiritual eyes of the shepherds and Wise Men were opened to see them. The shepherds saw a light all about them because they were in good, innocent states and were of the people who possessed the Scriptures. But the Wise Men, who had no knowledge of the truth except from old tradition, saw the light of the new spiritual day as a far-off star. The shepherds picture those within the church who are good; the Wise Men picture those outside of the church who cherish what little truth they have and try to live according to it. The shepherds had only a short way to go to find the Lord, but the Wise Men had to make a long journey.

The Wise Men went first to Jerusalem. Their knowledge was not specific enough to show them the exact place of the Lord's birth; so they went to the king of the country. Jerusalem, where the temple was, pictures the church as to truth. This is where "the Gentiles" expect to find knowledge of the Lord, and the Wise Men did find there those learned in the letter of Scripture who could tell them that it was prophesied that the Messiah was to be born in Bethlehem. So the church, even when it is not all that it should be, always has truth to give to those who really wish to find the Lord.

Bethlehem, earlier called Ephratah, was the birthplace of Benjamin — the site of Rachel's tomb — and was situated on the border between the territory of Judah and that of Benjamin, as the land was divided among the tribes. Like Benjamin, Bethlehem represents "the spiritual of the celestial." This is the link between heaven and earth in us — the truth which is acquired as a result of goodness in the heart — just as Benjamin was the link between Joseph and his brothers, by which they could be reconciled to each other. So the Lord, in whose person God and man were united, was born in Bethlehem. Also Bethlehem was the city of David, who represented the Lord as to truth, His kingly quality. And the name Bethlehem means "house of bread," and we remember that the Lord said, "I am the bread of life." When the star appeared the second time to the Wise Men, it led them to the very place where the Lord was. Their knowledge at first was general, but after they had been instructed from the Scripture, it was specific.

In the Scriptures all offerings to the Lord picture the devotion of our lives to His service. The three gifts of the Wise Men represent this devotion on the three planes of will, thought, and deed. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might." Gold is the offering of the heart, the attempt to drive out of our hearts all feelings which the Lord tells us are evil: pride, hatred, revenge, covetousness, jealousy. Frankincense is the offering of the mind: the determination to examine our ideas in the light of the teachings of the Lord's Word and to reject as false whatever does not agree with the Word, no matter how firmly we have previously believed it; this involves trust in divine wisdom as being always and in every situation superior to our own. Myrrh is the offering of the outward life, the effort constantly to act toward others as the Lord would wish us to act.

After the Wise Men had presented their gifts, they returned to their own country by another way, not going back to Herod as he had asked them to do. We know that Herod's motive in helping the Wise Men to find the Lord was that he might kill Him. The Wise Men did not know this when they talked to Herod, but after they had seen the Lord, it could be revealed to them. The Lord's providence often permits selfish motives to bring us on our way toward finding the Lord — as children sometimes go to Sunday school for the sake of winning a pin or other token — but when we have found the Lord and devoted ourselves to His service, we are immediately given an understanding of the selfishness of our earlier motives, and we return to our work in another spirit.

The rest of our chapter shows us the immediate effect of the visit of the Wise Men on the worldly life which we have previously developed. Swedenborg tells us that as soon as a person begins to regenerate, temptation is permitted to come to him. The evils and falsities which have been governing his life, pictured by Herod, are stirred up to attempt to destroy the new beginning of spiritual life, to keep it from growing and coming to rule in their place. But divine providence protects the new beginning by preserving it in our memory — in Egypt — until we have gained the victory over the first temptations, that is, until Herod's death. After that, it is brought up in Galilee — on the plane of our outward conduct — -first. It is the same process which we study in the Old Testament story. Every new beginning must spring from the heart and be confirmed by the mind, but then it must be worked out in the outward life before the evils and falsities in the heart and mind can finally be overcome.

