
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson should be centered about the reason why the Lord had to come into the world and the nature of the three gifts which we should bring to Him. Connection should be made with the story of Balaam, pointing out the survival of knowledges from the Ancient Word in the eastern country.

---
The study of the Old Testament shows clearly how the human race declined spiritually when once men began to look to self instead of to the Lord. Their minds became gradually closed to truth. When we are bent on having our own way, we will not see the truth. From the time of Moses, people in the world had the Scriptures — at least the Book of the Law — but they did not want to know what it really meant. As time went on they built up ways of evading the Law; and because these were also written in books by their learned men and handed down from one generation to another, they came to regard them as holy also. The Lord said they had "made the commandment of God of none effect" by their tradition. So by the time the New Testament story began, even people who wanted to be good could no longer find out what was really right. Evil was becoming stronger than good not only in this world but even in the spiritual world, because so many evil people were going there. The Lord had to come into the world Himself to show men how to live and to restore the balance in the spiritual world by fighting and overcoming the forces of the hells. The only way in which He could do this was by taking on a body and mind like ours, for evil could not come near Him as He was in Himself. Mary was chosen as the human mother through whom the human body and mind were formed and born into the world. But we must always remember that Jesus had no human father — His father was almighty God.

There are two familiar stories about the Lord's birth, this one in Matthew and the one in Luke about the shepherds. Everyone could not be told about the Lord's birth. The indifferent did not care, and the wicked would have destroyed Him. But the simple good and the truly wise could be told because they would welcome Him. The shepherds and the Wise Men represent these two classes.

The Wise Men came from the East guided by a star. They belonged to a good remnant of the Ancient Church who had cherished the prophecies of the Ancient Word. Balaam's prophecy (Numbers 24:17) speaks of a star. We are not to think that it was a material star — it behaved as no material star possibly could — but that it was a light from the spiritual world. Stars represent knowledges of heavenly things. The prophecy was such a star, and when it was fulfilled, the spiritual eyes of those who had cherished it could be opened to see it as a star, a guiding light. You remember that the shepherds saw a great light. It was the same light. There is no record that anyone else saw it except the Wise Men and the shepherds.

The gifts which the Wise Men brought — gold, frankincense, and myrrh — are symbols of love, faith, and obedience, the gifts which all who are truly wise bring to the Lord. These gifts to the Lord are what we should have in mind as we give and receive gifts at Christmas. The Lord gave Himself to us that first Christmas, and if we have His unselfish love in our hearts, our happiness at Christmas time will be in what we can do to make others happy rather than in what we receive ourselves. But we must not forget that being grateful to others for what they do for us is one of the ways in which we can make them happy.

We remember that Egypt pictures memory-knowledge. The Lord had to pass through a childhood like ours and acquire memory-knowledges. He even had to learn the letter of the Word just as we do, for He had to make the body and mind He had taken on capable of receiving and expressing the divine life which was within Him. It was in order to picture this that He was taken into Egypt right after He was born.

We note that both the Wise Men and Joseph were instructed "in a dream." Sleep is the time when our worldly thoughts and cares are put aside and so the Lord can be closer to us then than when we are awake. In the Word many people were taught in dreams and visions. The Lord seldom teaches people in that way now, but He does do much for our souls as well as for our bodies while we are asleep. So spiritually as well as physically we need a sufficient amount of sleep, and we should be careful not to fall into the bad habit of sitting up late when we know we have to get up early the next morning.

The Sower gives us an interesting thought about our story for today: "The story brings into contrast two kings: King Herod ruling in Jerusalem, and the new—born King of the Jews. The Lord was King in the power of the Divine truth and love which He brought into the world. King Herod stands for the power of falsity and evil which held dominion in men's hearts. Well might Herod be troubled at the mention of the new King, as the devils often cried out at the presence of the Lord.

"We seek the Lord as King and acknowledge Him as King especially when we learn His truth and allow it to order and rule our lives. Those who are seeking the Lord's truth are also spiritually wise men. The little knowledge that they have is their star; they follow it joyfully, and it will surely bring them to the Lord."

