
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
These children will be quite familiar with the story and should have an opportunity to tell it. Then they should look up the Bible references mentioned in their notes and read the information given in their notes also. The teacher should read the Intermediate notes as preparation for answering questions about the star.

---
Whose birth do we celebrate this week?

About how long ago was He born into the world?

Where do we learn about His birth and life in the world?

What are the two parts of the Bible?

In the beginning men were not in evils but they were free to choose to look to the Lord for guidance or to look to themselves; as they chose the selfish way, they gradually became evil. Their selfishness closed their minds to the truth so that finally even those who still wanted to be good did not know how. When this time came, the Lord had to come into the world Himself to show men how to live. He knew from the beginning that this would happen. The first prophecy of His coming is found in Genesis 3:15. The Old Testament is the story of the gradual decline of the human race. The New Testament is the story of the turning of the tide by the Lord so that men could find their way back to Him. He has given us four versions of this story, called the Gospels, each written through a different man. The word Gospel means "good news." The Lord's life is good news for all who want to be good. Only those who do not want to give up their selfish ways are not willing to welcome the Lord.

Where was the Lord born?

Bethlehem means "house of bread." Two other famous people in the Bible were born there, Benjamin and David. We learn from the Gospel of Luke that the Lord was born in Bethlehem because He chose to be born in a family who were descendants of David, but there was another reason, too. The Lord came to give men the food they need to nourish their souls. He called Himself "the bread of life." This means that we must take goodness from Him into our souls just as we take good food into our bodies. Think of this when you pray, "Give us this day our daily bread."

When the Lord was born, who came looking for Him?

Where did they come from?

How did they know He had been born?

Read Numbers 24:15-19. The prophecy in verse 17 was part of the Ancient Word, which had been preserved in the eastern country where the Wise Men lived. Balaam came from that same country, but he was a selfish man who used his knowledge from the Ancient Word to work magic, whereas the Wise Men were good men who wanted to welcome and to worship the Lord. All through the years good men in that eastern country had been watching for the star.

Where did the Wise Men go first?

Who was king in Jerusalem at that time?

How did Herod find out where to send them?

The scribes were those who could read and write and spent their lives reading and copying the Old Testament. The prophecy they quoted is found in Micah 5:2.

How did the Wise Men find the house where the Lord was?

What gifts did they give Him?

Gold, frankincense, and myrrh are symbols of love, faith, and obedience, gifts we should all bring to the Lord. Because the Wise Men brought gifts on that first Christmas Day, it has become the custom to give gifts at Christmas time. But when we give and receive our Christmas presents, we should always remember that the Lord has given us the greatest gift of all, the gift of Himself.

Why didn't the Wise Men go back to Herod?

Why had Herod wanted to know where the Lord was?

What did the angel of the Lord tell Joseph to do?

Do you remember any people in the Old Testament who went down into Egypt?

Why do you think Herod wanted to kill the Lord?

What terrible crime did Herod commit?

Where did Joseph take the Lord to live when they returned from Egypt?

Myrrh: "This substance is mentioned in Exodus 30:23 as one of the ingredients of the 'oil of holy ointment' ... Myrrh was also used for embalming. The Balsamo-dendron Myrrha, which produces the myrrh of commerce, has a wood and bark which emit a strong odor; the gum which exudes from the bark is at first oily, but becomes hard by exposure to air. This myrrh is in small, yellowish or white globules or tears. The tree is small, with a stunted trunk." (Bible Dictionary)

Frankincense: "A vegetable resin, brittle, glittering, and of a bitter taste used for the purpose of sacrificial fumigation (Exodus 30:34-36). It was called frank because of the freeness with which, when burned, it gives forth its odor. It burns for a long time, with a steady flame. It is obtained by successive incisions in the bark of a tree called Arbor thuris. The first incision yields the purest and whitest resin, while the product of the after incisions is spotted with yellow, and loses its whiteness altogether as it becomes old. The Hebrews imported their frankincense from Arabia." (Bible Dictionary)

