
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This beautiful story presents no problems for this age group. The children may want to know what frankincense and myrrh are, and some of the older ones may ask about the reality of the star. The teacher needs to be familiar with the facts given in the notes for the older classes.

---
What day have you been looking forward to for weeks? You know that your parents and friends will give you presents. Perhaps you are giving some presents yourself. But I wonder if you know why we have Christmas Day and why we give each other presents on that day. Christmas is someone's birthday. It is the day on which the Lord Himself was born into the world.

We have learned that in the beginning people were good, but little by little they chose to disobey the Lord and to follow their own ways instead of His. Finally even people who wanted to do right did not know what was really right.

So the Lord Himself had to come in to the world to show them the way. The New Testament tells about the Lord's life on earth.

Where was the Lord born?

Who came from the East to find Him?

How did they know He had come?

People had known almost from the beginning of things that He would come sometime, because He had told them He would. In our Bible, in the Old Testament from which most of our lessons have been taken so far, there are many "prophecies" or foretellings of His coming. But even before our Bible was written, there was another Bible called the Ancient Word. That Bible was lost a long, long time ago, but people all over the world remembered and treasured some of the things it said; and in the country far to the east of the Holy Land — the country Balaam came from — there were people who especially loved and kept all that was remembered of it. One of its prophecies was that when the Lord came into the world, a star would appear. So wise and good people who wanted to know and worship the Lord were always watching for the star. The Wise Men came from the same country from which Balaam had come long before.

Where did the Wise Men go first?

How did the priests and scribes know where to send them to find the Lord?

What led the Wise Men to the right house?

What gifts did they bring to the Lord?

What was the baby's mother's name?

What was her husband's name?

When you grow older, you will understand why Joseph was not the Lord's father.

Why did the Wise Men not go back to Herod?

What did the Lord tell Joseph in a dream?

Where did Joseph take Mary and Jesus?

How long did they stay there?

The three gifts the Lord wants from us are our love, our trust, and our obedience.

