
=== Senior

The emphasis here should be on the meaning of the Lord's coming and on our responsibility as Christians to learn about His life and follow His example. The correspondence of the shepherds and Wise Men in us should be noted and the point made that the Lord cannot come into our hearts and minds if they are full of self-will and self-esteem.

---
We have followed in the Old Testament the story of the decline of the human race from their first state of childlike trust and obedience to the state in which they were far from the Lord in their hearts and minds and could be brought to obey Him only through hope of reward and fear of punishment. As the centuries passed the people more and more came to evade the Law as it had been given them, covering it up with traditions of their own making, so that at the time when the Lord came into the world even those who wished to obey the Lord could not distinguish between the Law of the Lord and the accumulated tradition. As the Lord told the Pharisees, they made the commandments of no effect, "teaching for doctrines the commandments of men" (Matthew 15:1-9). It was for this reason that the Lord had to come into the world to show men the true way of life and to overcome the powers of darkness which were becoming too strong for men to resist.

The Lord was born in the nighttime to picture the spiritual darkness into which the world had come. It was a time of materialism, of confusion, and of fear. Our own times are strikingly similar, but we have the light of life by which all who wish to follow the Lord may be guided. Christmas should mean something new to us every time we celebrate it, because the conditions around us change from year to year and we ourselves change, and in every state of the world and of our individual lives we need to be reminded that the Lord Himself bowed the heavens and came down for our salvation and that He calls us to trust in Him.

The Wise Men saw the Lord's star in the east and came to worship Him. We know that stars represent knowledges of heavenly things, and Swedenborg tells us that when angels in the higher heavens are talking about heavenly truths, those in the lower heavens often see these conversations as stars in their sky (see @AR 65, @AE 402, @TCR 160). The star which the Wise Men saw was such a spiritual light. Their spiritual eyes were opened by the Lord to see it because they had cherished the knowledges which had come down to them from the Ancient Word. Balaam, who spoke the prophecy of the star in Numbers 24:17, was from the same country as the Wise Men. We, if we are truly wise, will recognize and follow the same star. The Lord Himself is the light of the world, and the only hope for the peace and happiness of the world or of us as individuals is to walk in that light.

The Wise Men brought gifts to the Lord: gold, frankincense, and myrrh. These represent the gifts which each of us will bring, if he is wise: love, faith, and obedience. If we love the Lord, we shall put His worship and His service first in our lives, trying to make ourselves channels through which His love can work in the world. If we have faith in Him, we shall not be afraid or discouraged no matter what trials and hardships come to us and no matter how threatening the world situation seems. If we obey Him, we shall put the welfare of others before our own and not spend our lives in self-seeking. These are the gifts we should offer Him on His birthday in return for the great gift of Himself which He gave us on that day.

And He did not give it once in the dim past only. He gives it to us every day. He is in the world now and always with power to save. Every time we go to the Word for knowledge of how to live, we are following the star, and we shall always find the Lord in the Word. Bethlehem means "house of bread," and the Lord later called Himself the "bread of life."

It may help us, too, to think of the role played by Herod in our story. Herod represents all the power of falsity and evil which seeks to destroy the beginnings of spiritual life in our minds and hearts. These powers are very real. We have only to think of the temptations which come to us every day to be less than our best selves, to do little things which we know are wrong, to yield to persuasion instead of standing up for what we believe is right. Herod's killing of the little children of Bethlehem pictures the destruction which falsity and evil can accomplish. But Herod was not allowed to destroy the infant Lord. If we once receive the Lord into our lives, He is there to stay. He may have to be kept "in Egypt" for a time — in our memory-knowledge — but He will come back "when Herod is dead" - that is, when the temptations have been conquered.

