
=== Notes for Parents

Everyone seems to know and love the twenty-third Psalm. It appeals to people universally because deep down in every person the Lord has stored up states of innocence and trust which that person experienced in infancy. These "remains" of our early states are referred to symbolically as the Lord's "lambs." We sometimes instinctively call a little baby a "lamb." By the same token, the Lord's "sheep" are the virtues which we have allowed to grow up out of these remains: humble recognition of our ignorance and weakness, trust in the Lord, kindly feelings toward all His other children, etc.

The modern world does not seem to think too much of these humble, childlike states, advising us instead to be self-confident and self-assertive. But in our Bible chapter the Lord teaches us that our only hope of safety and of heaven is in keeping our hearts and minds humble and trustful so that we shall hear His voice and follow him.

Many today who profess to be Christians are like the hirelings of whom the Lord speaks. They do right because of what they hope to get out of it (reputation in the community and honor from men), not because they really love goodness. Whenever doing right seems to threaten them with personal loss, their principles break down. This is why the Lord tells us that all who came before Him are thieves and robbers. All who put their own ideas or the ideas of other men before the teachings of the Lord are stealing from the Lord. The Lord is the door. Only obedience to the truth which He gives us in His Word leads us to safety and happiness.

All whose minds are open to hear the Lord's voice and whose hearts are willing to follow Him are His sheep, whether they belong to the Christian fold in this world or not. There are many good people in the world who have never learned about the Lord. They can, however, be taught about Him when they come into the other world. But those who, like the Pharisees in the Gospels, let their own self-importance and self-will close their ears to what they might learn here cannot be taught in the other world either. The Lord says of them, "You will not believe because you are not my sheep." When, a moment later, the Lord said, "The Father and I are one," these same people refused to consider His statement and merely accused Him of blasphemy and threatened to stone Him. This is exactly the same attitude that some people today have toward the Lord's words.

