
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Most of the Adult class will be more familiar with the other stories about Jacob than with chapter 35; so the teacher should begin immediately with the current lesson, only touching in passing on the earlier part of Jacob's life. Call attention especially to the burying of the idols and earrings at Shechem, the burial of Deborah at Bethel, and the burial of Rachel at Bethlehem. These three burials, followed by the burial of Isaac and by Jacob's final entry into his birthright, form excellent discussion material, especially in relation to the popular tendency to make external good works the first thing of religion.

---
The story of Jacob is a very important one for our thought about our everyday life, for Jacob and Esau represent the natural plane of life — Jacob this plane as to truth and Esau the same plane as to good. There is much emphasis in churches today upon external good works, and we all know that these should be done. But if good works are genuinely good they must be an outgrowth of love to the Lord in the heart and an understanding of His nature and will in the mind — not a substitute for these inner qualities of religion. Those who love the Lord and the neighbor and think about their own shortcomings and the Lord's mercy do their external good works as a matter of course and do not talk about them.

Jacob and Esau were at first rivals and even enemies. Our natural good impulses are eager to express themselves and impatient of instruction, and our natural understanding of the truth is pleased with itself and not too scrupulous in its methods of advancing itself. Esau was a "hairy" man and Jacob a "smooth" man. Hair represents the part of the life which is most external. Jacob's long sojourn in Haran was necessary to teach him the true value of his home and the necessity of reconciliation with his brother. So a young person goes out self-confidently to make his place in the world, and it may take him a long time to realize that life is more than material success, and that he needs to go back and reclaim the good states and the spiritual principles of his childhood period of instruction.

In interpreting the story of Jacob, Swedenborg deals primarily with its celestial sense, in which it is a description of the Lord's progress toward the glorification of the natural degree. But he is careful to point out that the order of glorification with the Lord was the same as the order of regeneration with man. We recall that Jacob's name was changed to Israel after he wrestled with the angel (Genesis 32:28), and this change is repeated in our chapter for today. In the celestial sense this change marks the completion of another step in the Lord's glorification. Jacob represents the Lord's natural as to its external; Israel, His internal natural. This is why both names are used frequently in the rest of the Bible story, sometimes even in the same verse, Jacob coming to stand for the church of that day as a mere representative of a church, while Israel stands for the true internal which the ancient Hebrew rites represented. The names are not interchangeable and are never used in the letter of the Word without clear purpose.

The sons born to Jacob in Haran picture the faculties developed by each of us as he "finds himself" in the life of the world — Joseph being the final faculty of receiving and understanding genuine spiritual truth. It is after Joseph's birth that Jacob decides to return to Canaan. But Benjamin, who represents the good proper to genuine truth, is not born until after Jacob has returned, become reconciled to Esau, and performed his worship at Bethel.

Four very familiar places are mentioned in our chapter: Shechem, Bethel, Bethlehem, and Hebron.

The strange gods and the earrings which the people surrendered to Jacob were buried "under the oak which was by Shechem." The strange gods and the earrings represent falsities held in the mind and falsities made actual in life, and to bury under an oak is to put away forever. This was accomplished at Shechem because Shechem, Abram's first stop in the Holy Land, represents "the first of light, which is interior truth." Before we can worship the Lord truly we must be willing to put away every false idea and bad habit which we find to conflict with His wisdom and love.

Then Jacob advances to Bethel. Jacob in his return is following the same course which Abraham followed when he came into the Holy Land from Ur so many years before, stopping first at Shechem, then at Bethel, and finally at Hebron, and building altars as he went. This pictures of course an advance, little by little, into holy states of innocence and trust. Abraham's journey was a childlike following of the Lord. Jacob's is a more mature, though more worldly or natural obedience. Abraham was being led into these states out of ignorance and idolatry. Jacob is coming back to them after a long period of wandering, caused by his own transgression. The Lord tells us: "Except ye become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven." When Jacob comes back to Bethel, the "house of God," the Lord appears to him again and renews the promises He had made to Abraham and to Isaac.

The death of Rebekah's nurse Deborah at Bethel tells of the passing of former affections when new ones are developed. Deborah is the hereditary evil from the mother. Hereditary evil lies back of all our acts in childhood. We do things largely for the sake of self. Though children are directed by their parents and led by the Lord through angel associates, yet hereditary evil is within everything they do. But it does not become actual because they do not act from their own free will. This is the innocence of infancy. The difference between the innocence of infancy and the innocence of wisdom is that in the former "the innocence of infancy is without, and hereditary evil within," whereas in the latter, "the innocence of wisdom is within and evil both actual and hereditary without." (@AC 4563) The natural, purified of its falsities and evils, has come into a new state. Bethel — "house of God" — signifies this new state of the natural, for the house in which truth dwells is good. The altar Jacob built at Bethel is the worship of the Lord by the natural mind.

Our lesson marks the first appearance of Bethlehem in the Bible story. The birth of Benjamin and Rachel's death are the first incidents we connect with it. Bethlehem is near the border of the two lots later assigned to the tribes of Benjamin and Judah. As the birthplace of Benjamin, and later of David, and still later of the Lord, it marks the beginning of great changes. The death of Rachel near Bethlehem in the celestial sense pictures the expulsion by the Lord of whatever was hereditary and human in the affection for interior truth. In the human affection from the mother is the glory of self and the world. Good is done for the sake of self. The Lord felt this temptation and put it away, and we should recognize this evil in ourselves and try to overcome it with His help.

Isaac died at Hebron and was buried by his sons Esau and Jacob in the cave of Machpelah. (See Genesis 49:29-32.) Jacob became head of his family. It is helpful to fix in our minds the fact that of the three patriarchs Abraham pictures the celestial, Isaac the spiritual, and Jacob the natural plane of life, the planes through which we pass from infancy through youth to maturity. When we first consider ourselves "grown up," we are in the Jacob stage, when natural and worldly things are most interesting and absorb our time and thought. We branch out into many fields of interest, as Jacob's twelve sons headed families and eventually divided the land. Still we have in us our inheritance from our infant and childhood states and we have in us the deeper affections, represented by Joseph and Benjamin, to link us to spiritual and celestial things. Our early states are in us and affect all we do. So the places that are mentioned in the early chapters of Genesis recur again and again throughout the Bible story.

