
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This class can be given the general correspondence of the Jacob period and something of the application of the particular incidents in his history. The important lesson for them in the chapter for the day is that mere worldly success never satisfies the mind and heart and that when we realize this, we must recognize and put away the thoughts and habits into which we have fallen as a result of putting worldly ambitions first.

---
In the Bible story Abraham represents our spiritual state in our infancy and very early childhood, and Isaac represents our state when we are old enough to have learned our need of recognizing the Lord's laws and have begun to form our judgments of right and wrong according to them. If we are developing properly, we should reach the Isaac stage before we are through high school.

But we know that after high school there is a time when we have to think a great deal about how we are to get along in the world. We leave home and go to college or into some occupation and, although we are not yet really grown up, we are pretty much "on our own." This period is called the development of the natural plane of life and is described in the stories about Jacob.

Jacob married the two daughters of Laban, Leah and Rachel, who represent affections for exterior and interior truths, and was also given their two handmaids. By these four women he had one daughter and twelve sons, only the last two of whom — Joseph and Benjamin — were the children of Rachel, Jacob's first love. He also became rich in flocks and herds. Jacob's sons picture the various faculties which we develop in this period of beginning our independent lives; and the flocks and herds, the abilities and knowledges which come to us.

Then suddenly after twenty years, Jacob decided to go home.

The young man or woman who is inwardly good cannot be satisfied just to enjoy his own success in the world. He knows that he must take his possessions and abilities home to his Father's house — back to the service of the Lord.

The first thing that happens in this homecoming — on the very border of the land — is Jacob's reunion with Esau. Jacob, remembering the wrong he had done Esau, was afraid, but Esau welcomed him gladly. This pictures the time when we realize that our good intentions and our understanding of the truth are really in harmony and can work together. Then comes our chapter for this lesson. You remember that when Jacob left home, he slept one night at Bethel and had the wonderful dream of the ladder reaching to heaven, and that in the morning he vowed that, if the Lord would prosper him and bring him safely home again, he would worship and serve Him. So now that he has been prospered and brought back, he goes first to Bethel, builds an altar there, and worships the Lord.

Two things come into the story before the altar can be built.

The first is easy to understand. All Jacob's people must put away "the strange gods that were in their hand and all their earrings which were in their ears" and these were hidden "under the oak which was by Shechem." In the first part of the Jacob period we develop a good many worldly ideas and ambitions; these are the "strange gods." And we listen to many worldly and selfish promptings and do wrong things because of them; these are the "golden earrings." We must recognize these as unworthy and put them away before our worship of the Lord can be pure.

The second incident seems a strange one: "Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak." Why should Rebekah's nurse, who came long ago with Rebekah from Haran (Genesis 24:59), appear suddenly in the middle of this story of Jacob? From the literal sense we find no explanation, but in the spiritual sense this incident has a wonderful meaning. Rebekah's nurse represents hereditary evil. We are all born with selfish inclinations, but the Lord uses this natural selfishness of ours to induce us to form good habits. A child is led to behave rightly mostly by fear of punishment and hope of reward, and in the Isaac stage these same selfish motives also lead him to learn what the Lord would have him be and do. So our affection for doctrinal truth, which is Rebekah, is nursed by our hereditary selfishness. But when, as adults, we decide to bring our worldly achievements back into the service of the Lord, this selfish motive is put away forever.

Then finally Jacob is ready to be united to his father Isaac in Hebron and to inherit his father's place as head of the family. Isaac dies, and his sons Esau and Jacob bury him. This does not mean that we stop using our spiritual rational which Isaac represents, but that it has now become so much a part of our everyday thought — so natural to us — that it no longer stands out as a separate function in our minds. It is in us just as Abraham — our early trust and obedience — is in us.

