
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In this class review by questions and comments the whole factual story of Jacob, as this is the age at which children should become thoroughly familiar with the whole Bible story. Be sure the children look up the Bible references in their notes and go over the names of the twelve sons of Jacob. Point out on your own Bible map the four cities named in the chapter.

---
In Haran Jacob was welcomed by his uncle Laban and decided to stay and work for him. He married two of Laban's daughters, Leah and Rachel. The people of those times had forgotten that it is wrong for a man to have more than one wife. Leah bore Jacob six sons and a daughter. He had four more sons by Bilhah and Zilpah, the handmaids of Rachel and Leah. Finally Rachel had a son, Joseph. Then Jacob decided to go back to his home in the land of Canaan, after having lived in Haran for twenty years. He was still afraid of Esau, but he found that Esau had long since forgiven him and welcomed him gladly.

Do you remember the story of the wonderful dream which Jacob had when he first left home — the dream of the ladder reaching from earth to heaven, with the Lord at the top and angels ascending and descending upon it? Read in Genesis 28:16-22 about Jacob's vow. Bethel means "house of God." Now in our chapter for today we learn how Jacob kept his vow.

Where did the Lord tell Jacob to go?

How did Jacob prepare his family for worship?

Who died at Bethel?

What other name did the Lord give Jacob?

What promise did the Lord make to him?

Who died near Bethlehem?

Who was born there?

Who else was born at Bethlehem hundreds of years later?

Benjamin was the twelfth and last of Jacob's sons. You will find the names of all twelve in verses 23 to 26 of our chapter. You want to read them and become familiar with them, because these twelve sons became the heads of the "twelve tribes of Israel" about whom we shall hear a great deal as we go on. You want also to remember that Joseph and Benjamin were the last two of the twelve, and that they were the only children of Rachel, who was Jacob's favorite wife.

Where did Jacob find his father Isaac living?

Who buried Isaac when he died?

Isaac was buried in the cave of Machpelah, which Abraham had bought for a family burying place when Sarah died. After Isaac's death Jacob became head of the family. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are called the three patriarchs.

