
=== Senior

The Seniors are themselves in the beginning of the Jacob state, and the spiritual lessons involved in our chapter are especially important for them. Many of them think now that they will never be led away from serving the Lord. Call their attention to the fact that Jacob's desire when he left home was only to return as soon as possible, but that he became so involved in his activities and accomplishments in Haran that it was twenty years before he actually made the effort to go back to the Holy Land.

In the writings Swedenborg explains the stories of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph for the most part in the celestial sense in which they tell us of the inner life of the Lord as He was developing from infancy to adulthood; but he tells us that our own individual development is analogous, and so they apply to us also. The Lord took on from Mary all the natural human heredity just as we have it, and dealt with its temptations one after another as they came to Him. So the Lord is our pattern.

After the period of Ishmael and Isaac comes the period of Jacob and Esau. Jacob and Esau represent the natural plane of our lives in its relation to the Lord — Jacob as to truth and Esau as to good — especially that period in our lives when we are just beginning to take our places in the world as independent individuals.

In our early childhood, represented by Abraham, we experience and store up in our subconscious the states of innocence and trust. In our early youth, represented by Ishmael and Isaac, we acquire knowledges and develop the power of reasoning, first in a very external and superficial way and later more deeply, with a truer perception of values. When we begin to grow up and to "live our own lives," we are at first necessarily very much concerned with establishing ourselves in the world. We turn our back on the Holy Land, so to speak, and devote ourselves to the practical problems of everyday life. This is Jacob's sojourn in Haran.

But Haran is not our home. Always in the back of our minds is the vision with which we started, and sooner or later we become dissatisfied with our bondage to the "practical" life, and turn our faces homeward. Like Jacob, we travel slowly, checked at first by the pull of old ideas and somewhat hindered by our flocks and herds, the very riches we have worked so hard to acquire in Haran. Finally we reach the borders of our homeland. But before we actually enter it, Jacob must be reconciled with Esau. Heavenly life consists in the union of both will and understanding in the Lord's service. Then follows our chapter for today.

We remember that when Jacob, fleeing from Esau, was granted his first encouraging vision at Bethel — the dream of the ladder — he promised that if the Lord would take care of him and bring him safely back to his home, he would serve Him. Now the Lord's part of the covenant is fulfilled. Jacob has been prospered and has come back with great wealth to settle peacefully in his own country. So he returns to Bethel and builds an altar there, requiring all his household to give up their idols and be clean and change their garments. This is a picture of the effort we should make, if we are trying to live a heavenly life, to reform all our worldly ways of feeling, thinking, and acting so that there shall be no divided allegiance to turn us astray. The people did give Jacob their idols and also the "earrings which were in their ears." This seems a strange addition, unless we know that the ear pictures obedience and the earrings the delight of obedience, so that what is pictured is the willingness to stop listening to and acting upon the dictates of self-will. Jacob buried all these things under the oak at Shechem before he went on to Bethel. Swedenborg tells us that to bury something under an oak pictures rejection of it forever. Jacob's stop at Shechem represents his coming to a state of peace, and we cannot come into this state so long as our minds are divided in their allegiance. "Ye cannot serve God and mammon."

After Jacob reached Bethel and built his altar there, it is written that Rebekah's nurse Deborah died and was buried at Bethel under an oak. This seems a completely irrelevant incident. In the letter we find no suggestion of a reason why Rebekah's nurse should suddenly appear in the story of Jacob. But her death and burial just at this point picture the rejection of the hereditary evils in which we have grown up. Deborah, you remember, was sent with Rebekah from Haran when Abraham's servant took Rebekah away to become Isaac's wife. It is part of the Lord's providence that our evils are never separated from us suddenly or violently but are allowed to go on until we see and reject them ourselves. The same lesson is taught in the Gospels in the parable of the tares among the wheat.

Benjamin is born at Bethlehem because he represents the highest type of good which can be exercised on the natural plane of our lives. This cannot be produced until we get back to the Holy Land, although Joseph — the truth which leads to this good — can be seen before we have attained our goal. Rachel's death, like Sarah's, pictures the end of one stage of our development, the affection proper to that stage subsiding into the background of our experience as we go on to new interests.

The death of Isaac is the final act in the drama of our development from infancy into a full adult state. From Genesis 49:31 we learn that Isaac and Rebekah were both buried in the cave of Machpelah, and that Jacob and Leah were both buried there also. This suggests that, although Rachel was Jacob's first love and his ideal, Leah — the affection for external truth — was actually his proper wife. The death of Isaac does not mean that at this stage we have given up our spiritual reasoning, but that this faculty has become a part of our everyday life. Jacob has come into the qualities possessed by his fathers, Abraham and Isaac. A truly good external life has within it both the innocence and trust which are Abraham and the rational understanding of spiritual values which is Isaac.

