
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Good discussion topics are the meaning of the period of the Judges, Samson's riddle, Samson's strength and weakness, and the Philistine temptation. Swedenborg's teaching that the letter of the Word is the "basis, containant, and support" of all our spiritual knowledge and power is one which we particularly need.

---
The Israelites, before they moved out to take possession of their allotted homes in the Holy Land, had been charged by Joshua to continue in their own territories the fight against the enemies who remained there, and to root them out. The first chapter of the book of Judges tells us how far short all the tribes fell of fulfilling this charge. Only one individual — Caleb — seems to have made a complete conquest of his inheritance. In @AE 768[21] we learn that Caleb represents "those who are to be introduced into the church." (In @AC 2909 we find a brief and very interesting summary of the history of Hebron and its meaning.) The rest of the people were too much interested in making themselves comfortable in their new homes to worry about enemies who appeared to be no longer threatening. The book of Judges teaches us that even after we have begun to regenerate, we cannot assume that we have reached a state in which we can settle down confident of our own spiritual security. Read Matthew 24:43. Self-confidence always betrays us. "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall." (Proverbs 16:18) Our inner foes gain strength, and we suddenly find ourselves in the throes of temptation again. It may take us some time to learn this lesson. The period of the Judges lasted about two hundred years. We recall that the Judges were not rulers of the whole people but local leaders raised up by the Lord to meet the various enemies in one part of the country or another. They represent particular truths called to our attention by the Lord to help us fight particular temptations. We have already studied Deborah, Gideon, and Jephthah.

Our lesson today is about Samson, one of the Judges, and his exploits against the Philistines. The Philistines, as we recall from our lesson on Isaac and Abimelech, were a people who lived along the western border of the Holy Land. Authorities differ as to their origin. One suggests that they were pirates of ancient Aryan stock, who forced themselves upon the Canaanites and settled permanently in the land. Genesis 10:14 makes them descendants of Ham, and they were a settled people in the time of Abraham. Abraham and Isaac both spent some time in the Philistine country and made treaties with them. At the time of the Exodus the Israelites were not allowed to go by the "way of the Philistines" (Exodus 13:17). From time to time throughout the history of Israel, the Philistines caused trouble. The Israelites often chastised them and even captured some of their strong cities, but never wholly overcame them. The story suggests an ever-present enemy to our spiritual peace, one with whom we are often tempted to compromise and against whom we must always be on our guard.

Swedenborg leaves us in no doubt as to what this enemy is. The Philistines, he says, represent those who are in the "knowledge of the knowledges of faith and charity," those in faith separated from charity, with whom "the knowledge of the knowledges of faith is the principal thing, but not a life according to it; consequently those who teach and believe that faith alone saves" (@AC 8093). The doctrine of faith alone was a widely accepted doctrine of the Protestant Reformation. Even Luther felt forced to adopt it in order to have a basis for separation from the Roman system, and in the course of time apparently argued himself into a belief in it. It has wrought tremendous havoc in the Christian world, and Swedenborg has much to say of its effects both in this world and in the spiritual world. Practically, it means that it makes no difference what we do so long as we acknowledge Christ and look to Him for salvation. We sometimes hear it said that this doctrine is no longer held today, but this is not true. Many still hold it even in its bald general form. But further than this, there are many less obvious manifestations of it, and none of us is wholly free from some form of it. For instance, whenever we go to church and come away critical of others and not equally dissatisfied with ourselves, we may know that the Philistines are upon us. Self-righteousness and the pride of self-intelligence are the earmarks of faith alone. For the more we know of the Lord and His ways, the more conscious we should be of our own shortcomings; if we are not, it is a sign that we are not genuinely trying to live the truth we learn, that we are satisfied to know without doing. This is the Philistine temptation.

It is significant that Samson, the Judge raised up against the Philistines, was from the tribe of Dan, for Dan represents the "affirmation and acknowledgment" that we should believe in God and live a good life, which "is the first general principle with the man who is being regenerated." Samson won notable victories over the Philistines. In @DSS 49[2] Swedenborg says: "The Lord's power from the ultimate things of truth was represented by the Nazirites in the Jewish Church; and by Samson, of whom it is said that he was a Nazirite from his mother's womb, and that his power lay in his hair." @AE 619[18] and @AE 1086[2] elaborate this idea, with particular reference to Samson, and specify the sense of the letter of the Word as the ultimate in which the power of divine truth resides. Samson was tempted to ally himself with the Philistines, and was more than once overcome by them. In the same way, our affection for knowledge often leads us astray. We learn a great many things without due thought as to the use this knowledge should perform. This temptation is like the young lion which threatened Samson, and if we overcome it, we are given the joy pictured by the honey which Samson found in the carcass of the lion. This is a joy which comes only from carrying out in life the truth we learn. The Philistines could never have guessed Samson's riddle. No one who is not trying to do right can believe that he would find pleasure in it. Samson fell as a result of his desire for a wife from among the Philistines. We may think he was easily beguiled, but how often we ourselves feel the attraction of "the world, the flesh, and the devil," and take the easy way instead of the right way!

All the details of the story of Samson are interesting in their correspondence and useful in adding point to the lesson. But the principal truth with which we should be impressed is the fact that Samson's power was in his hair. The hair corresponds to the "ultimates of the Divine truth," and thus to the sense of the letter of the Word in which the Lord's power is in its fullness. It was on account of this correspondence that the Israelites were led to think of baldness as a disgrace; that the children who called Elisha "thou baldhead" were torn by bears; that the prophets, including John the Baptist, wore hairy garments; and that the Lord's hair is described so beautifully in the vision of John in Revelation 1:14. The letter of the Word is our only means of conjunction with the Lord and of receiving power from Him. It is through the knowledge of the letter of the Word which we store in our minds that the Lord can speak to us; it is through our reading of the Word that His presence and power can come into our daily lives. The Lord in His Second Coming has opened the Word and made it possible for us by prayerful study and constant application in our lives to understand more and more of the spiritual and celestial things which lie within it. But it is still the letter of the Word which is "the basis, containant, and support" of all we learn. We cannot substitute the spiritual sense for the letter, as Swedenborg himself tells us more than once. Samson's strength went from him when his hair was shaved. So his story contains a special warning for us of the New Church. We should not allow our delight in the new knowledge which is given us to beguile us into becoming separated from the source of all our spiritual strength.

