
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the tribe of Dan, of the Philistines, and of Samson and his hair are basic for this class. They will be interested also in the meaning of Samson's riddle, which can be illustrated from their own experience.

---
After Joshua there was no one ruler over all Israel and therefore no general organization of their forces. But whenever any enemy in any part of the land became so oppressive that the Israelites turned again to the Lord for help, the Lord would raise up someone strong from one of the tribes in that region to lead them in their resistance. These local leaders were called Judges, and they picture particular truths called to our minds by the Lord to strengthen us against particular temptations.

If we rely on the Lord and obey Him, He will always give us strength to conquer in temptation. Our troubles come from the weakness of our faith in the Lord and not from the strength of the evils in us. When the Israelites obeyed the Lord, His power was with them and their enemies became weak. The story of Samson teaches this lesson. So long as he obeyed the Lord he was given strength to meet many enemies and overcame each of them single-handed, as he overcame the lion in our chapter. When he let his lower desires beguile him, he lost his strength. Read chapter 13 to learn of his birth and the conditions he was told to observe. He came from the tribe of Dan, which represents among other things the acknowledgment of the truth of revelation.

Samson represents simple obedience to the letter of the Word.

He was to have nothing to do with wine and strong drink — which symbolize an intellectual grasp of the truth — and he was to let his hair grow. The hair, which has the least life of any part of the body, pictures what is most external: in this case, the letter of the Word. We learn from Samson that if we obey even the literal commands of the Word from a motive of obedience to the Lord, we shall have strength to meet and overcome every enemy which threatens us.

Swedenborg tells us that the Philistines — the only enemy never fully conquered by Israel at one time or another — picture an affection for learning the truth without any desire to live according to it. This is one of our persistent enemies — the temptation to be satisfied with knowing what is right. We go to Sunday school, for example, and are interested in the lesson. What do we do with it when we go home? How far do we really apply it in our own life?

Samson wanted a Philistine wife. He was tempted by this desire for knowledge for its own sake. It was of the Lord's providence, as we see in verse 4 of our chapter, that he was allowed to make this attempt. The young lion in the Philistine vineyard pictures the powerful temptation which is hidden in this superficial intellectual approach to life. Samson overcame the lion, and afterward found honey in its carcass. Honey, a wholesome and natural sweet, is a symbol of the delight which comes from doing what is right. The riddle which the Philistines could not solve without Samson's help asks, spiritually: "Is it possible to draw good out of trial, happiness out of struggle?" Only those who use the strength the Lord gives them to overcome their temptations really know the answer.

In spite of Samson's experience of the treachery of the Philistines, he still desired a Philistine wife. The story of Samson and Delilah, found in chapter 16, is so powerful that Delilah has come to be recognized as the symbol of anything which beguiles in order to betray. The thing which betrays us more than any other is the love of learning without doing. So long as Samson's hair was uncut, no Philistine bonds could hold him. So long as we keep the commandments, we are safe. But once we reject the commandments, evil captures us, blinds us to the right, and eventually destroys us. Read chapter 16.

