
=== Junior

Remind the Juniors that they heard of the Philistines in our lesson about Isaac and Abimelech, and show them the Philistine country on a map. Then point out the territory of Dan from which Samson came. They will be interested in Samson's feats of strength. The teacher should list them beforehand and tell them to the class. They are all found in chapters 14, 15, and 16.

---
All through the conquest of the Holy Land, the Lord had performed miracles to help the Israelites. You remember how He had told Joshua to study and obey the Law continually if he wished to succeed. Joshua obeyed this charge, but after he died the people forgot it. Read Judges 2:6-13. The Lord could not be with them when they ceased to obey Him, and so the enemies in the land began to gain strength again. The Israelites were so settled in their new homes and busy with their private affairs that they imagined they were wise and strong enough to get along without paying any attention to the law of the Lord. The last verse of the book of Judges shows what their fault was: "In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes." The Lord should be our king, and we should direct our lives according to His commandments.

Scattered in their homes throughout the country, the Israelites were really weak instead of strong, and after a while here and there an enemy would begin to annoy them, then to oppress them, and finally to rule them completely. When this happened, the Israelites always at last called on the Lord for help. And the Lord always helped them, just as He always helps us when we are ready to acknowledge our own weakness and turn to Him. In the part of the country where the enemy was attacking, the Lord would raise up some strong person to lead the people of that region against that particular enemy. These leaders were called Judges, and the book of Judges tells about them.

At the time of this lesson the Israelites in the southwestern part of the land had fallen under the dominion of the Philistines, who lived along the coast of the Mediterranean. Look at a map and see where they lived and also where the tribe of Dan was settled. Your teacher can show you the town of Zorah near the border of Judah, and southwest of it the town of Timnath. Zorah belonged to Dan, and Timnath was a town of the Philistines. Chapter 13 tells us how an angel of the Lord appeared to the wife of Manoah, a man of Zorah, and promised her a son, who should begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. The woman called her husband and they made a sacrifice to the Lord and saw the angel ascend in the flame from their altar; so they knew the message was from the Lord. The angel had told them that the child must be brought up as a Nazarite; that is, a man especially dedicated to the service of the Lord. The signs of a Nazarite were that he should not touch wine or strong drink, and that he should never cut his hair. In due time the child was born and named Samson.

When he grew up, what did he want to do which displeased his parents?

What threatened Samson as they went down to Timnath?

How did Samson kill the lion?

What did he find when he came down the second time?

What riddle did he ask the Philistines?

How did they finally get the answer?

How did Samson keep his bargain?

Chapter 15 tells further exploits of Samson. If you read it, you will see what good reason the Philistines had to fear and hate him. They knew he had more than human strength, and they tried to trap him through the woman he loved, as they had done the first time. The woman who betrayed Samson this second time was a Philistine named Delilah. She coaxed Samson to tell her why he was so strong, and he finally was persuaded to tell her. As long as Samson was faithful to his Nazariteship and did not cut his hair, the Lord could give him strength. One night while Samson was asleep, Delilah cut his hair. To learn what happened when he awoke and the rest of his story, read Judges 16:20-31.

