
=== Primary

Teach the children the general background of the book of Judges and the difference between a Judge and a national leader or king. They should also learn what a Nazarite was — the word means "separated" — and why Samson's strength left him when his hair was cut. Tell the whole story of Samson briefly.

Who gave the Israelites power over their enemies?

After Joshua died, the people forgot this.

They thought they were strong and wise enough to get along without the Lord. So their enemies became strong again and one by one attacked them.

When real trouble came, the Israelites always called on the Lord for help. Each time He raised up someone to lead them against the attacking enemy. These leaders were called Judges.

At the time of our lesson the Philistines had gained control of Israel. The Judge the Lord raised up was Samson.

The Philistines, who lived in the Holy Land along the seacoast, had become so strong that the Israelites were having to do just what the Philistines told them to do. Before Samson was born the Lord had told his mother and father that he was to be a Nazarite, which meant a man singled out to serve the Lord in a special way. The principal sign of a Nazarite was that he allowed his hair and beard to grow, and never cut or trimmed them. The Lord could give Samson great strength as long as he kept this rule. So his strength was in his hair.

Why did he go into the Philistine country?

What feat of strength did he perform on the way?

What did he find the next time he went down?

What riddle did he ask the Philistines?

Samson's wife coaxed the answer from him and then told her people the answer.

Samson kept his promise, but he was very angry.

From that time on he did many great deeds against the Philistines.

Finally, however, Delilah found out where his great strength lay, and she cut off his hair while he slept.

The Philistines took him prisoner and put out his eyes. But after a while his hair grew again and his strength came back. He did not tell the Philistines that he was strong again. Then one day when a great crowd of Philistines were gathered in one of their temples, and they brought Samson in so that they could enjoy making fun of him, he pushed down the pillars of the temple and the roof fell in and killed them all. Samson knew he would be killed with them, and he was. But he was doing his people a final great service.

