
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The story of Samson should be used to put the Seniors on their guard against two things: the folly of overconfidence in one's own goodness and spiritual strength, and the ever-present danger of being beguiled by the allurements of the world about us and the reasonings in favor of them. Stress also the importance of the letter of the Word.

---
We are told in Judges 2:7 that the Israelites served the Lord all the days of Joshua and of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen the wonderful works of the Lord in the wilderness journey and in the conquest. Then they began to mingle with the evil people in the land whom, you remember, they had not wholly conquered, and finally even to worship their gods. When we are just beginning the regenerate life, we are eager and enthusiastic in serving the Lord; but after we think we are established in the new pattern, we are liable to become self-satisfied and careless, to give way a little here and there to the pressure of worldly thinking and selfish feeling. Our inner spiritual enemies gain strength and threaten to resume control of our character.

The Judges, who were raised up from time to time by the Lord in one or another part of the land, represent particular truths which the Lord recalls to our minds in time of need to strengthen and lead us in our resistance to particular temptations. The period of the Judges pictures a time of vacillation in our lives before we have learned through experience the extent of our own weakness and our need of continual direction by the Lord.

The enemy now threatening Israel in the southwestern part of the country was the Philistines, and Samson — the Judge in this story — was of the tribe of Dan. Dan in a good sense represents the affirmation and acknowledgment that we should believe in God and live a good life. Samson was also a Nazarite, a man "separated" or set apart for special service of the Lord. The signs of Nazariteship were to abstain from wine and strong drink and not to cut the hair. As long as these signs were observed, the Lord could be with the man. A fuller explanation of this will be found in the quotation at the end of this lesson. The Philistines represent the affection for knowing the truth without any desire to live according to it. So we can easily see why Samson of the tribe of Dan was the chosen Judge.

The story of Samson is a very simple and striking one. Samson's strength was in his hair: that is, in obedience to the law which had been laid down for his life. His was a simple character. Temptation came to him in the form of two women — both Philistines. Women represent the will side of our lives. In both cases Samson's integrity was worn down by repeated appeals to his affections.

The lion which attacked him when Samson first went down into the Philistine country pictures the strength of the temptation to which he was subjecting himself. His victory over the lion was given to show him that it was possible for him with the Lord's help to withstand temptation, and his finding the honey in the carcass of the lion the second time he came down was a reminder that overcoming temptation always brings satisfaction. Honey is a symbol of delight in doing right. Heaven is a state in which we both know the truth and delight in living according to it. So the Holy Land is described as a land "flowing with milk and honey." Samson should have learned his lesson from this experience and from the events which follow in the rest of our chapter.

But we remember that later he yielded again, with far more serious results. We all know the story of Samson and Delilah, which is told in chapter 16. Delilah beguiled him into disclosing to her the secret of his strength and cut off his hair while he slept. Then the Philistines captured him and put out his eyes. When we allow ourselves to be betrayed into giving up obedience to the commandments in their letter, we fall captive to false reasonings of every kind and lose our power to see what is truly right and wrong. There is much of this confusion in the world today simply because some people are being taught that the Bible is the product of men and that the commandments were written for an earlier time and are not binding upon "modern" men and women. A whole structure of philosophy and psychology has been built up, like the temple of Dagon the fish—god in Philistia, in honor of the human intellect and its achievements. Those who accept this philosophy make sport of the "simple—minded" people who still believe in the Word of God, just as the Philistines made sport of the blind Samson.

But Samson's hair began to grow again. The moment we see our folly and return to the acceptance of the commandments as our rule of life and exert ourselves to keep them again, the very central pillars of the house of Dagon are knocked out, and the whole structure comes tumbling down.

