
=== Notes for Parents

This is a long chapter but a very important one for all of us.

People in the Christian world today sometimes think that the New Testament is the only part of the Bible we really need to read, and that all we have to know of the Old Testament is the ten commandments, and some people even think that those are out of date. But if we read this chapter carefully, we see that it is full of things which we could not understand at all without our knowledge of the Old Testament story, and that is true of all the Gospels. The two cannot be separated.

In the book of Malachi we find prophecies of two messengers: the one Elijah, who was to prepare the way of the Lord; the other "the messenger of the covenant," who was to be the Lord Himself. Today we read about the fulfillment of both these prophecies. For the angel told Zacharias not only that the child his wife Elisabeth was to bear was to prepare the way of the Lord, but that he was to come "in the spirit and power of Elias." Elias [KJV] is the Greek form of the name Elijah. And the angel told Mary that her child was to be called "the Son of the Highest."

The Lord came into the world almost two thousand years ago.

We Christians take that fact so much for granted that we sometimes forget that even today there are millions of people in the world who do not know it. But there is something else we do not consider which comes much closer home to us. The Lord came into the world to stay. He said, "Lo, I am with you always." And He said, "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me." (Revelation 3:20) Has the Lord come to us? Have we listened to His voice and opened the door of our hearts and minds so that He could come in?

John was sent to prepare the way of the Lord. The message he preached was, "Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." (Matthew 3:2) The kingdom of heaven is always at hand. The Lord is always at the door waiting to come in with heavenly blessing and happiness. But He cannot come in while the door is shut against Him by our concern with ourselves and our worldly advancement. We open the door by repentance. Repentance, however, means more than saying we are sorry when something we have done has produced unpleasant consequences. It is examining ourselves in the light of the truth as the Lord gives it to us in His Word, and trying with His help to root out and put away the feelings, thoughts, and conduct which He shows us to be wrong.

