
=== Adult

Probably the best line of discussion is that of the constant pressure of the world about us and the ease with which we sometimes are led astray. The mistakes into which we may be led by thinking of good in terms of merely external benefactions is an important point also. The whole problem of Jephthah's daughter is interesting both in the letter and in the internal sense. The teacher will find various approaches to it in the notes for the other classes.

The period of the Judges is that time in our lives when we have set our outward conduct in order and made enough headway against our deeper temptations so that we feel that we are well established in spiritual living. Our tendency then is to relax our vigilance, to yield a little here and there to the thought and practice of the world about us. We do not realize how easy it is to slip back gradually into evils once we have begun to compromise. After the Israelites had conquered and divided the land and settled down every man under his own vine and fig tree, they stopped fighting the enemies around them and began to mingle with them instead. So they grew weaker and their enemies grew stronger. One after another they rose up and tried to throw off the yoke which Israel under Joshua had imposed upon them. The Judges whom the Lord raised up to meet these enemies were local leaders — Deborah, Gideon, Samson, and others. They represent particular truths from the Word which the Lord calls up from our memories when we are tempted, realize our own weakness, and turn to Him for help.

Most of the enemies and most of the Judges were in the Holy Land proper, but in our lesson for today the enemy comes from the cross-Jordan country. The Judge is from that country also, and the fighting is done there. This would indicate that the temptation pictured is an external one, and one which may be met and overcome by means of the simple truths of the letter of the Word. As we learn in Jephthah's message to the king of the children of Ammon, the Israelites took this land from the Amorites (see also Numbers 21:21-24), who represent evil in general. Between this country and the desert, on the southeastern and eastern borders of Reuben and Gad, lived the Moabites and the Ammonites, the descendants of Lot (Genesis 19). We remember that when Abraham and Lot came up out of Egypt to settle in the land, Lot, who represents the sensuous or, as Swedenborg puts it in @AC 1547, "the external man and his pleasures which are of sensuous things," chose the Jordan valley as his home, and this led him into serious dangers. Like Lot, the sensuous plane of our minds stands in a precarious position. It is closely related to the higher planes and is a necessary part of us, but it is always attracted by external beauties and pleasures and is easily led astray through them. Moab and Ammon, the incestuous sons of Lot, represent departures from the true order of the sensuous, the adulteration of good and truth on the sensuous plane. In @AC 2468 Swedenborg speaks of them as denoting "those who are in an external worship which appears in a manner holy, but who are not in internal worship; and who readily learn as being goods and truths the things that belong to external worship, but reject and despise those of internal worship." He makes the further enlightening statement that "such worship and such religion fall to the lot of those who are in natural good, but despise others in comparison with themselves."

In our story they are now attacking Gilead. Gilead is the name given to a considerable portion of the more mountainous country east of the Jordan and parallel to it, from the Sea of Galilee to the Dead Sea, the inheritance of the tribe of Gad. Gad, we are told, represents in a good sense the "good of life," or good conduct springing from love to the Lord and based upon true doctrine (@AE 435). In @AC 4117[3] it is said that Gilead signifies "the first good, which is that of the senses of the body; for it is the good or the pleasure of these into which the man who is being regenerated is first of all initiated." In @AE 654[44] we are told that Gilead signifies, among other things, "reasonings from the sense of the letter of the Word." Thus in the chapter we are studying we have a picture of the outward life of the man who is regenerating, his conduct, his pleasures, and his worship all open to view and constantly subject to attack and especially subject to the temptation to compromise with evil, that "adulteration of truth" represented by the sons of Ammon (@DSS 183).

This temptation takes countless forms, but in substance it is perhaps this: So long as I support the church, attend worship regularly, give to the poor, etc., I'm a pretty good sort of person; standards of morality and of taste change; things that would have shocked people fifty years ago are perfectly all right now; one can't be prudish and have a good time; if I don't get ahead of the other fellow in business, he'll get ahead of me; why, doesn't even the Bible say, "Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness"? We argue with ourselves and with others in this way and presently we find that we have lost the power to judge clearly as to what is really right and wrong in conduct — we are helpless before the Ammonites. The man who is raised up as Judge in our story is not even a legitimate son of Gilead, but is one who has been cast out by his brethren and has gone to live apart. Swedenborg gives us no interpretation for Jephthah. The name itself means "an opposer" or "one who opens." We can think of him perhaps as representing some simple truth which has come to us through our sense experiences in their contact with false and worldly standards which the Lord can disentangle from the network of worldly reasonings into which we have fallen and can make the instrument of our deliverance.

Jephthah's oath pictures a recognition of what victory over the Ammonites involves. When we are fighting the temptation to compromise with worldly standards of conduct, we cannot hope for victory unless we are willing to give up particular indulgences which the Lord shows us to be wrong. Jephthah vowed to sacrifice as a burnt offering to the Lord "whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon." Jephthah, the mighty man of valor, performed his vow, even though it cost the life of his only daughter. When we enter the conflict with the Ammonites genuinely, it often seems as though the one sacrifice required of us is the thing dearest of all to our hearts. The same lesson in a less external conflict is taught in the story of Abraham's temptation to sacrifice Isaac (Genesis 22). The fact that Abraham's sacrifice was prevented and Jephthah's was not* suggests that Jephthah's daughter pictures an affection of self-love, which should be given up — although of course the burnt offering itself is in the internal sense an act not of destruction but of consecration through love to the Lord.

[*Samuel Noble argued against this conclusion. See his Plenary Inspiration, pp. 475ff. and Appendix VI. See also his Sermons on Judges, sermons 18-20. -Editor]

The moral question involved in the letter of the story of Jephthah is paramount in most non—New Church commentaries. Did Jephthah do right in keeping a rash vow? The first and most obvious comment is that we should not make rash promises. The Lord says: "But I say unto you, Swear not at all ... But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil." (Matthew 5:32, 37)

In @AE 608 Swedenborg tells us that "Oaths are made by those who are not interior, but exterior men," and that the angels regard an oath as abhorrent, since it insults the integrity of one's motives. A promise is a serious thing, not to be lightly made and not to be lightly broken. But if one has been made which proves to be a foolish one, we have the problem of choosing, not between right and wrong, but between two evils; and it is right to choose the lesser. If keeping the promise involves only inconvenience to ourselves, it will perhaps serve us as a lesson and keep us from trouble later. But if it involves danger, injury, or even inconvenience to others, we may do less harm if we acknowledge our folly frankly and accept the blame and the loss of confidence resulting from a broken promise. Parents should not form the habit of constantly exacting promises from their children, and they should not allow their children to enter into pledges which they do not fully understand and whose consequences they cannot possibly foresee.

[Note: There is only one passing mention of Jephthah in all the writings (@AE 811[29]) — which probably accounts for the omission of the usual quotation from Swedenborg at the end of this lesson. -Editor]

