
=== Intermediate

Probably the most interesting lesson for the Intermediates is the correspondence of the sacrifice of Jephthah's daughter, but the class should also have a clear idea of the meaning of the period of the Judges.

The Judges were men raised up one after another by the Lord to lead the people against their enemies after the original conquest of the Holy Land was over.

You remember that the conquest of the Holy Land pictures in our lives the period of regeneration, the time when we have learned to enjoy living an orderly outward life and are beginning our real battle against the inherited evils in our hearts. Under Joshua the Israelites conquered the land and brought their enemies under control. Then the land was divided by lot among the tribes and each tribe was supposed to complete the conquest within its own territory. But only in the southernmost part of the land — especially in the region around Hebron, which had been given to Caleb and his descendants — did the people fulfill this duty. Most of the tribes were too anxious to settle down, build their homes, plant their fields, and begin to enjoy their new land.

This is very much what we all do. When we think we have our bad tendencies pretty well under control, we become overconfident of our own goodness and fall into the habit of excusing our little weaknesses. The Israelites began to mingle with the people of the land and even to intermarry with them, which they had been strictly charged not to do. Joshua had died and so had "all the elders who outlived Joshua." So we sometimes forget all our former eagerness to overcome our evils. Finally the Israelites actually began to worship the gods of the land. We find it more and more easy to think and act as the people around us in the world do.

Then the enemies began to gain strength and to attack, and in places they gained the upper hand over the Israelites and oppressed them. So our evils, which we imagined we had overcome, crop up again, and suddenly we find that we are in the grip of some old temptation. "Then they cried unto the Lord in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses," as we read in Psalm 107. When they were in trouble, they always remembered the Lord, just as we do. The Judge whom the Lord each time raised up pictures some particular truth from the Word called up out of our memory to lead us in the fight against the particular temptation which is upon us.

Most of the enemies were within the land itself, but after a while even one of the enemies on the other side of the Jordan gained strength and tried to reconquer that country. The tribes of Reuben and Gad and half the tribe of Manasseh had been given their inheritance on the east side of the Jordan. This was a country which had been taken from the Amorites before the crossing of the Jordan. It included the rich mountainous pasture land of Gilead. The country east of the Jordan represents our outward conduct, and the enemies there are the temptations which come to us from our worldly environment. After we reach the Holy Land of regenerate living, we sometimes feel that we have put behind us all need of watching our external conduct to keep it in order, and this is never true. As long as we live we shall be tempted to say and do things which are not right. The attack by the Ammonites pictures such a temptation.

Swedenborg tells us that the Ammonites represent the "falsification of truth." This means the temptation, once we have acknowledged some truth of the Word, to twist this truth to suit our convenience, as some people, for example, acknowledge the truth that we should worship the Lord on the sabbath day, and then say, "I can worship the Lord better on the golf links than in church." This is an external type of temptation, and the Lord brings to our mind to meet it some simple statement from the letter of the Word, such as the statement about the Lord in Luke 4:16: " ... as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day." Such a truth is pictured by Jephthah the Gileadite, for Gilead represents good in the external life.

Then we have the story of Jephthah's rash vow. It reminds us of Jacob's promise to serve the Lord if the Lord would prosper him. We should not pray to the Lord in the spirit of bargaining. We should recognize that whatever the Lord permits to happen to us is permitted in love and with a view to our good. So what happened to Jephthah was permitted in order to teach us what genuine service of the Lord requires: the readiness to give up our own desires.

This is one of the cases in which the spiritual sense of the Word is almost the opposite of the literal sense. In the letter we have what is to us a horrible instance of human sacrifice apparently required of Jephthah by the Lord. We must remember, of course, that with the people about Jephthah human sacrifices were not at all uncommon, and Jephthah had no feeling that they were wrong. Both he and his daughter undoubtedly thought of human sacrifices as the sign of supreme devotion to God, just as Abraham did when he thought he was required to sacrifice Isaac. And the Lord permitted the sacrifice, as He permits us to do many wrong things which we believe to be right. The Lord "looketh upon the heart."

But in the internal sense we have a different picture. Daughters represent affections, and Jephthah's only daughter pictures the only affection he had up to that time — the affection for success because of the feeling of satisfaction it gave him. This he was required to give up, and we remember that burnt offerings made to the Lord represent acknowledgment that all the good qualities we seem to have are not really ours but the Lord's. The two months allowed for Jephthah's daughter to go "up and down upon the mountains" picture the time it takes for the thought of this sacrifice of our self-satisfaction to work itself out in our minds so that we are completely ready to make it. And the custom to which it gave rise among the daughters of Israel pictures the effect in our lives ever afterward of having once made this offering to the Lord. So the story of Jephthah really teaches us a beautiful lesson which we all need.

