
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
For this class the Bible references are important, as they impress upon the children the historical sequence of the Word. Map work is important this time also, and another connection can be made through the home of Jephthah and the settlement of the two and a half tribes in that region. The moral lessons to be stressed are summed up at the end of the Older Children notes.

---
Look up Deuteronomy 6:10-15 and read the warning the Lord had given Israel which they should have then remembered. But Israel was very prone to forget the Lord except when they were in trouble. Aren't we likely to do the same thing? When everything is going well with us, we become self-satisfied and self-confident. Then the Lord has to let trouble come to us to show us how weak we really are and how much we need Him.

After Joshua and all the people who had fought to conquer the land had died, the Israelites let themselves mingle with the people they thought they had overcome and even intermarried with them, which they had been strictly commanded not to do. Presently they were worshiping the gods of the land instead of their own God, who had done so much for them. When we have overcome a bad habit, we have to keep it under control or we may find that we have slipped back into it.

Whenever their enemies began to attack and oppress them, the Israelites remembered the Lord and cried to Him for help, and each time He raised up someone to deliver them. These leaders were called Judges. They did not rule the whole country or lead all the people, but they overcame a particular enemy in a particular place. The book of Judges tells about them. You may remember the stories of Deborah, Gideon, Samson, Eli, and Samuel.

What was the name of the Judge in our chapter for today?

Where did he live?

What enemy was attacking Israel?

Look at a map to see where the Ammonites lived and where Gilead is.

What rash vow did Jephthah make?

What did he find he had to sacrifice?

Did his daughter try to make him break his vow?

What favor did she ask?

To what custom did this lead?

We must remember that human sacrifices were very common among the idolatrous people of those days. It was apparently not against Jephthah's conscience to sacrifice his daughter, just as it was not against Abraham's conscience to sacrifice Isaac. What seems a crime to us did not seem a crime to them. This does not mean that it was right, but that they did not know it was wrong. We all do many wrong things ignorantly from good motives, and the Lord forgives us. Jephthah and his daughter both believed that they were doing right, and the Lord could have said to Jephthah what He said to Abraham in Genesis 22:16-17.

We may learn three lessons from this story. One is that we should think carefully before we make a promise. The second is that we should do our best to keep our promises and should also help other people to keep theirs. And the third is that when we promise to obey the Lord we must be prepared to be asked to give up some things which may seem very dear to us.

