
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lessons of particular importance for the Seniors in this story are the danger of overconfidence and the need of recognizing that without the Lord we can do nothing. The Seniors are approaching the time when they will go out into the world "on their own," and should be impressed with the necessity of being always watchful against the weakening of the good principles they have adopted as theirs.

---
Our lesson for today is the strange and to us forbidding story of Jephthah and his daughter. The book of Judges presents a sort of interlude between the period of the development of the Jewish nation and the period of its history as the recognized possessor of the Holy Land. It is a stage through which all of us pass — not a very creditable stage, but one which teaches us a great deal about ourselves and about our need of the Lord.

In our lives the conquest of the Holy Land represents the beginning of regeneration, that state in which with the Lord's help we are eagerly trying to find and overcome weaknesses and evils which are within us by heredity. Under Joshua the Israelites did conquer the land. Then it was divided by lot among the tribes, and each tribe was told to enter upon its inheritance and to complete the conquest of the enemies within its own borders. This pictures a time when we feel that we have really won the victory over our weaknesses and can begin to enjoy the fruits of this victory. We know that we are not perfect, that there will be further temptations, but we feel confident of our ability to meet them. And in this confidence is our danger.

In the first chapter of Judges we learn that in the south the tribes of Judah and Simeon actually did complete their conquest. This means that at heart we wish to be wholly good. But the chapter goes on to say that none of the other tribes won a full victory. Each left certain enemies unconquered. Then we read that as long as Joshua lived and the elders who outlived Joshua, the people continued to serve the Lord; but after that they forgot the Lord and began to mingle with the people of the land and to intermarry with them and finally to worship their gods. This is a picture of how our first enthusiasm for the truly spiritual life is liable to cool as we go about our everyday occupations. We begin to do as others do, then to think as they think, and finally to seek our own advantage instead of serving the Lord and the neighbor as we started out to do.

Then we find suddenly that the evils within us which we thought we had overcome are not only still there, but have gained strength and are threatening to control us again. One after another the enemies in the different parts of the Holy Land rose up and harassed the Israelites. Each time, when they were hard pressed, the Israelites turned to the Lord for help, and each time He raised up a Judge in the particular part of the land where the trouble was, to lead the men of that land against the enemy. These Judges represent particular truths from the Word which the Lord, when we ask Him for help, brings up out of our memory to show us how to fight particular temptations.

We think of the Holy Land as the strip of country which lies between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea. But the Jordan valley on the east side of the river was also a part of the Holy Land in its wider sense; it was the rich country which Lot had chosen to live in when he separated from Abram. It represents the natural plane of our lives with all its good and pleasant things, and with its many temptations also. When the Israelites were nearing the Holy Land under Moses, they bypassed the lands of Edom and of Moab and Ammon, but took this rich valley from the Amorites by conquering their king Sihon and also Og, the giant king of Bashan. At that time the tribes of Reuben and Gad asked if they might have their inheritance in that valley instead of in the land west of Jordan, and their request was granted on condition that their fighting men would first go over with the others and help conquer the Holy Land proper.

Half of the tribe of Manasseh was also settled in this "cross-Jordan" country. The richest part of this land was the part called Gilead, which, Swedenborg tells us, represents "the first good, which is that of the senses of the body." There are many people who want to be good men and women, obeying the Lord and being kind to the neighbor, who nevertheless do not care for any higher kind of enjoyment than the enjoyment of the good things of the world. They are the people who after death are completely happy in the "natural" heavens, knowing that there are higher heavens above them, but not wishing to go higher themselves.

The scene of the story of Jephthah is laid in this land of Gilead.

Jephthah was a Gileadite. The Judge just before him, Jair, was also a Gileadite. We are told very little about Jair and nothing about any wars or conquests in the twenty-two years of his judgeship, but as he and Jephthah were the only two Judges who did not come from the Holy Land proper, we may assume that trouble was brewing in Gilead before Jephthah's call and that Jair's judgeship served as a preparation for meeting it when it broke out.

After our regeneration begins, most of our enemies are our hereditary evils, the tribes in the Holy Land proper. But we never reach the point when we do not still need to be on our guard also against a resurgence of our external temptations. The enemies in our story today are the Ammonites. Ammon was one of the two sons of Lot, and represents those who, because they are in merely natural good, are easily led astray and falsify the truth. It is not hard to see what the uprising of the Ammonites is in us. When we fall into the habit of thinking of good in terms of merely earthly comfort and happiness, we interpret everything in the Word in its application to such things. Swedenborg points out that the person who is in merely natural good gives his benefactions to the good and to the evil alike, not stopping to think that when he gives to the evil, he is encouraging evil. He says in one place, "To do good to the evil is to do evil to the good." (@AC 3820[2])

Jephthah as Judge stands for some simple truth from the letter of the Word raised up in our minds to contradict this false interpretation of truth — in our example it might be such a phrase as that in Luke 6:34: "for sinners also lend to sinners." Like Jacob, Jephthah has an idea that he can bargain with the Lord, as his rash vow shows. He thinks of doing good in terms of self-merit and rewards.

This is, as we have seen before, where we often begin, but when we have once crossed the Jordan, we should have put this idea behind us. Through the story of Jephthah we are taught that what we must give up is our natural affection for thinking ourselves good. This affection is Jephthah's daughter. The picture of this only daughter coming out of his house with timbrels and dances to meet him when he returns victorious reminds us immediately of the self-congratulation with which we hail our own spiritual as well as natural victories. But the regenerating man, when he feels this emotion, immediately recognizes it as the thing he must give up. We remember that the burnt sacrifice was the symbol of the acknowledgment that whatever goodness we have is not our own, but the Lord's working in and through us. So we must overcome our natural reluctance — pictured by the two months' mourning on the mountains — and make the sacrifice.

