
=== Intermediate

The lesson of the story for today is an important one, and as it can be drawn directly from the letter, we have done nothing this time with particular correspondences except for the general difference between Saul and David.

David was humble and obedient and trusted the Lord. He pictures the rule of divine truth as it is understood from a spiritual perception instead of in a natural way. We have had the stories of David's playing his harp or lyre to sooth Saul, of his early fight with Goliath, and of his friendship with Saul's son Jonathan, who saved him from his father's jealous rage and helped him to escape. For Saul continued to be king as long as he lived. As soon as David was anointed, however, "the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him." This was why David, even in exile, increased in favor with the people. When Saul and Jonathan were finally killed in a defeat at the hands of the Philistines, another son of Saul, Ishbosheth, was crowned king by Abner, the captain of Saul's army, but David was made king in Hebron by all the people of the southern part of the land. This is the first time the division of the land into north and south appears in the Bible story. David reigned seven years in Hebron and then Ishbosheth was assassinated by two of his own captains, and the northern part of the country also accepted David as king.

David, like Saul, was a fighting king, and because he obeyed the Lord he was not defeated as Saul had been. He extended the boundaries of the land, subdued all its enemies, and took Jerusalem, which was one of the cities that had stood out against the Israelites up to that time. David made Jerusalem his capital and brought the ark there, putting up a new tabernacle for it, because the Lord told him that he was not to be the one to build the temple.

David always obeyed the commands of the Lord when they came to him personally through a prophet. But as time went on and successes continued to come to him, he forgot that the fundamental laws of God are the ten commandments. The background of our story for today is found in chapter 11. David saw a beautiful woman named Bathsheba and wanted her for his wife, although he already had several wives. With the Israelites of that day it was not considered unlawful for a man to have more than one wife. But Bathsheba was the wife of Uriah the Hittite. David first broke the commandment against adultery and then attempted to conceal his sin by having Uriah sent into the front line of the battle, where he was killed.

The story of David's sin and its punishment should show us plainly that the persons in the Bible story are not meant to be examples to us in the sense that their conduct is always to be copied. They were weak and often evil men, and the Lord uses their lives to show us what not to do as well as what to do. When the Word describes David as a man after the Lord's own heart, it is not the man that is meant but the faculty which he represents in the spiritual sense; and this faculty — even after it has gained dominion in our lives — must constantly be kept subject to the judgment of the commandments or it will go astray, as David did when he considered himself great enough to be above the commandments.

If Nathan had gone to David and charged him directly with his sin, David's first thought would have been to defend and excuse his conduct. We know that this is always our natural reaction to a direct rebuke. But when the case was presented to him as a story about other people, his mind was free to pronounce righteous judgment.

This is just the way in which the Lord calls our attention to our sins — through his prophets in parable. We read the stories and teachings of the Word first in an impersonal way. We form our judgments of them unhampered by thoughts of self. Then, when our judgment is formed, the Lord says to us through our conscience, "Thou art the man." The deep lessons of the Word lie concealed in the simple and seemingly commonplace stories of the letter. These stories lie in our minds until the moment comes when we need the lesson. Then they are suddenly quickened to life and present application.

David had become so great that he thought himself above the commandments. We are all subject to this same weakness. Most of us lead outwardly correct lives, gain the respect of our neighbors, and come to consider ourselves established as good Christians. Then some strong desire of ours meets an obstacle. In order to satisfy it we must do something which is technically forbidden by the commandments. Unconsciously we argue, "I am a good person. I would not have a desire which was really wrong. This thing I want would further the good work which I can do in the world. Therefore it cannot be wrong for me to remove the obstacle. The end justifies the means." But Nathan's simple parable brought David down to the valley of humiliation. Read the fifty-first Psalm as an expression of this state. The heading of the Psalm reads, "To the chief musician, a Psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came unto him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba." It is a Psalm which we all need to repeat frequently as a reminder of our weakness and need of direction.

