
=== Notes for Parents

The second king of Israel was David. Immediately after the first disobedience of Saul (1 Samuel 13), the Lord sent Samuel to Bethlehem to anoint David. At that time David was only a boy keeping his father's sheep, and it was a long time before he became king in the sight of the people. We all know many stories of his early years.

After Saul's death only the people of the southern part of the Holy Land at first accepted David as king. He reigned seven years in Hebron before he was recognized by all the people. Then he captured Jerusalem, made it his capital, and brought the ark there. From that center he carried on a completely successful campaign against all the enemies of Israel and extended its borders farther than they had ever been extended before. David is sometimes held up to children as a great hero — one to be imitated. The Israelites so considered him. But we should never take this attitude toward the men and women in the Bible story. There is only one example which we ought to place before our children, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ.

Our story for today shows us that David, in spite of all the fine things that he accomplished, was only an imperfect man and liable, as we all are, to yield to temptation. He broke both the commandment against adultery and that against murder, feeling that his high office would save him from punishment. Samuel was now dead, and the Lord spoke to David through another prophet, Nathan. We remember that the Lord speaks to us through the Word. The Word is our prophet. And our chapter shows us just how the Lord through the Word comes to us when we have sinned. Nathan told David a simple parable, and when David — not thinking that what Nathan was telling him had anything to do with what he himself had done — condemned the man in the parable, Nathan said, "Thou art the man." As we read the Word, we can see clearly the faults and the sins of the men and women whose lives are portrayed there. Then, if we have sinned in the same way, there comes to us suddenly the conviction: "Thou art the man."

If we acknowledge our sin and repent, as David did, we can learn by the experience and still produce good, but we do not escape the consequences of our sin. David's first son by Bathsheba died. Evil cannot produce good. We cannot break any one of the commandments without suffering for it. They are just as binding today as when they were given by the Lord from Sinai.

