
=== Adult

The teacher should read, if possible, @DP 129-133, but in any case the quotation from n. 133 which is printed at the end of the lesson. Adult discussion should center on the nature and purpose of the Biblical miracles and why miracles are not orderly today. This is information found only in the writings of the New Church and much needed today. If there is time at the end of the class period for discussion of particular miracles in the chapter, the teacher will find their basic correspondence developed in the Senior notes.

---
Many people do not believe in the Biblical miracles, even some who profess to follow Jesus Christ. This is not because the text of Scripture — the only source of our knowledge of the Lord — leaves any room for doubt, but because they are unwilling to believe in what they call the "supernatural," and so reject all evidence of it. This rejection should be recognized for what it is: a purely arbitrary act of will, not based on knowledge or reason. There is ample evidence of the existence of the supernatural in everyone's experience if he is willing to recognize it.

If we believe in God, we must believe that He is the creator of the universe and everything in it, and that He has power to act in it and to control it. To give the name of God to the forces of nature is not to believe in God. There are many things, even in the natural universe, which we do not understand although we know they exist and even make use of them in our everyday life — electricity, for example. These forces have been in the world from the beginning and have affected men's lives, but it is only recently that men have known enough to make any intelligent use of them. We do not know enough even about the laws of nature to have any rational ground for denying the possibility of the miracles. In the growth of a seed into a tree, in the preservation of life through the dormant winter states, in the knitting of a bone, in countless daily happenings we see the Lord doing things which we do not understand and could not do ourselves. The Lord made the world, the laws of nature are His laws for nature, and He alone fully understands them. The laws of nature were not broken in the performance of the miracles. Divine power, immediately present in the world, simply operated in nature in ways which we are not prepared to understand. And it was the same divine power which operated through the disciples when, at His command, they also performed miracles. All healing today, by whatever instrumental means, is wrought by the Lord.

Yet there is a difference between the miracles of Scripture and those which the Lord is constantly working today. Scripture miracles were performed more rapidly — some of them instantaneously. Why should not such things happen now? It is because the Lord had a special purpose in performing His miracles. He had but a limited time to be present to the sight of men on earth. He had to crowd into that time acts which should teach for all time His power over every type of affliction. Because the people he ministered to were a wholly external people, they could not be impressed except upon the most external plane. It is not so with men today. The Lord's resurrection set men free from bondage to materialistic and sensual thinking. It is possible for us today to understand spiritual things, the realities behind nature, and the Lord wants us to come to Him because of these realities and not merely for bodily health, comfort, and success.

Moreover, miracles never really convince anyone. We may think that if we could see a miracle performed we should believe, but this is not true. Many times people who did not wish to believe in the existence of the supernatural have had spiritual experiences so powerful that at the time they knew them to be real; yet as soon as the experience was over, they began to explain it away as hallucination or dream. The scribes and Pharisees were not convinced by the Lord's miracles, although they witnessed many of them. Read Matthew 9:34.

The Lord did not perform His miracles for the sake of convincing those unwilling to believe. He never seeks to force belief in Him. He performed miracles only for those who already believed. The very devils whom He cast out believed in His power before they were cast out. He makes this point very clear, for in almost every account of a miracle in the Word there is some preliminary assurance of the faith of the person involved.

But the Lord had another purpose in performing His miracles.

They were necessary for the sake of the letter of the Word, that they might stand forever in the Scripture as the ultimates in which spiritual truths might be contained. In general they teach us that all life and health and power come from the Lord and that faith in Him and obedience to His commandments are required of us. And each miracle also teaches its particular spiritual lesson.

Three general types of miracle are included in our chapter. The stilling of the storm manifests the Lord's power over inanimate nature and should teach us the limitations of natural science. We think we know a great deal about the cause of storms. A pertinent question is, "Why is the weatherman not always right?" He is kept informed of the storms that are coming his way and of atmospheric conditions all over the country. Why should he not be able to predict accurately for his own section? The answer is, because unexpected things "happen." There are factors in the case of which he is ignorant. Something happened to shift the course of the wind, to dissipate a storm or to bring one about. This happening was not accidental; it was according to law, only the law was too deep or too high for human knowledge. The Lord's will is active in nature today as really as when He stood in the boat on the Sea of Galilee. His wisdom directs nature according to our spiritual needs. It is literally true today that "even the winds and the sea obey him." And this is only the outermost lesson involved in this miracle.

The healing of physical disease manifests the Lord's control over the conditions of our bodies. When a person is ill and recovers, he attributes his recovery to the medicine he took or to the doctor who treated him or to a faith healer or to the prayers of his friends. Yet none of these agents always succeeds, and many recover without recourse to any of them. There are factors in physical health which we cannot understand or predict. It is still the Lord's will which operates and the Lord's wisdom which directs our recovery or our continued trial or our passing into the spiritual world. And again, this is but the outmost lesson.

And the Lord has power today (just as He did when He cast out devils long ago) over mental disorders. There is perhaps no other field in which men feel so helpless, in which prediction is so uncertain. And all efforts to prevent and to cure insanity point to the fact that one of its underlying causes is dwelling upon self. Give the person something to "occupy his mind," "to take his mind off himself," is often the first advice. There is only one course which can really take one's mind off himself, and that is turning to the Lord, choosing the spiritual company of angels in place of that of the devils associated with our natural heredity, and applying our efforts and talents to the service of the Lord and the neighbor. It is the Lord alone who can keep the mind sane.

Each miracle in our chapter has its individual lesson and is a study in itself. Each physical or mental ailment has its spiritual correspondent, and every detail in the Lord's healing of it is significant. Our chapter, like every chapter in the Word, is a challenge to continued study.

