
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of various diseases is important for this class. Discuss examples of spiritual leprosy, palsy, fever, and possession by devils. Lead the young people to think of their faults as spiritual diseases to be brought to the Lord for healing.

---
We have chosen this chapter because it contains examples of several kinds of miracle. The stilling of the storm shows the Lord's power over inanimate nature. We should remember that the Lord has this power always, and that today it is He who determines what "the weather will be." We are all in the habit of thinking of the weather in terms of our own convenience and pleasure. But the Lord has the needs of all people in mind. He uses nature as one of His tools. The healing of leprosy, palsy, and fever shows His power over the body, the casting out of devils His power in the mind.

We note that the condition of healing was always faith in Him.

Even on the natural plane we can see that this must be so: unless we believe that a thing is possible, we do not attempt it. But it is equally true on the plane of our affections and thoughts. One of the commonest mistakes we make is to say, "I can't help it," and "You can't change human nature." The Lord tells us, "With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible." (Matthew 19:26)

Every disease in the Word corresponds to some particular weakness or deformity of the soul. Spiritual leprosy is "profanation of truth," which means knowing the truth at heart but rejecting it because we do not want to live according to it. Palsy stands for the inability to carry out our good intentions, to walk steadily in the right way. Fever pictures the burning of inner wrong desires. Possession by devils denotes evil thoughts and passions. All these are results of the natural selfishness into which we are born, and that is why they seem too much a part of us to be overcome, but the miracles teach us that with the Lord's help they can be overcome. And they teach us the orderly way in which to set about it. First we must believe that the Lord is God and able to heal our spiritual ills. Then we must go to Him and ask His help. And finally we must cooperate by obeying His commands.

Many people, looking upon physical health as essential to happiness, think that physical miracles should be wrought today. It is true that forgetfulness of self and trust in the Lord will do much to keep us in good health both physically and mentally. But Swedenborg tells us that the Lord does not perform miracles today as He did when He was in the world, not because of lack of faith on our part but because miracles today would force men to believe in Him when they did not want to follow Him, and this would do more harm than good. We are in an age of reason, and the Lord wants us to choose freely to believe in Him and do His will. In the Lord's time miracles could be performed because the people were so worldly and materialistic that even miracles could not make them believe. Read Matthew 9:34. The Lord's miracles strengthened the faith of those who already believed in Him, but did not convince others.

The Lord performed miracles principally so that they could be recorded as part of the letter of the Word and through their correspondence teach people in all times what the Lord is able to do for their souls. Each miracle is a study in itself, and their importance is in their spiritual meaning.

