
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the need of faith in accomplishing anything, and what true faith in the Lord is. Have the children look up and read Matthew 13:54-58. Try to show them also what our attitude should be toward the problems of physical health — that it is a great blessing if well used but never of first concern.

---
The Lord's ministry consisted of teaching, preaching, and healing. Our chapter today describes several of the Lord's miracles of healing.

What is a miracle?

How many miracles can you find in this chapter?

Which one of them is not a miracle of healing?

The Lord healed people on one condition. See if you can find out what it was by reading verses 2-3, 10, and 31. All these people believed that the Lord was able to heal them. This meant that they believed He was the Messiah and so had divine power. But not everyone who saw the miracles believed this. Read Matthew 9:34.

There are two kinds of reasons why people are sick. One kind is natural: we know that many diseases come from not keeping clean and from bad eating and living habits, and of course there are accidents. But even in these there is something involved which we cannot see. When the measles are "going around," do all children catch them? Or do accidents happen to everyone? People who obey the laws and who try to be careful of other people seldom cause accidents. Obedience and thoughtfulness are qualities of the mind and heart; that is, they are spiritual qualities. In the case of diseases we often cannot even guess at the spiritual cause, but there always is one, and the Lord knows what it is.

When the Lord was in the world, He could act into nature directly and so He could cure the diseases of people whose hearts were good. But He did not do this merely to make their bodies well. He always taught that the soul is more important than the body. He performed miracles for two reasons: to strengthen the faith of those who wanted to believe in Him, and for the sake of the Word. For each miracle is really a parable teaching us of some good work which the Lord can perform in our souls if we believe in Him and ask His help. See if you can think what spiritual weaknesses can be pictured by leprosy, palsy, fever, and possession by devils. When we are not honest and sincere, when we just don't seem to be able to do right even though we want to, when we are "burning up" with resentment against someone, when we seem to be "possessed," as our mothers may say, to get into trouble, we have these afflictions spiritually. And we sometimes say, "I can't help it, I was born that way." We are all born that way, but we can change ourselves with the Lord's help if we ask Him to help us, and do as He tells us.

The miracle of the stilling of the storm also showed that the Lord had complete power over the world of nature. To His disciples this miracle seemed even more wonderful than His miracles of healing. This was probably because they knew even men had some ability to heal disease, but they thought of storms as events about which men could not do anything. We should learn from this miracle that what we call the laws of nature are really God's laws for nature, and that He is always in control. And this miracle has a meaning within it, too. Remember what we learned about the parable of the house on the rock and the house on the sand.

What did the storms picture in that parable?

The storm in our lesson today has the same meaning. When we ask the Lord to help us in our temptations, He will always still the storm for us.

