
=== Notes for Parents

The Lord's ministry consisted of teaching, preaching, and healing. We have chosen chapter 8 for our lesson today because it contains so many examples of His healing.

Today we read and hear and see on television a great deal about "faith healing," and many think that because the Lord healed and commanded His Apostles to heal, every Christian church should undertake this work.

In the writings of Emanuel Swedenborg we have very clear and reasonable teaching on this point. He tells us that all healing power is in the Lord. This does not mean that we should never go to a doctor or take medicine. Many ailments result from our misuse of the gifts the Lord has given us in the natural world and can be corrected by changing our bad habits to good ones or by the help of various products of nature which the Lord has created for this purpose — this is the field in which doctors work. But we all know that doctors cannot always cure, and also that people sometimes get well whom the doctors have "given up." The final healing is always under divine providence.

Why then does the Lord not always cure us? We know He loves each one of us and does everything that is best for us. It is because the Lord is primarily concerned with the health of our souls, and a well body does not necessarily mean a healthy soul. If we and everyone else loved the Lord and the neighbor and always knew and chose to obey the divine laws, both spiritual and natural, there would be no sickness, no accidents, no insanity. But we do not. And we often need to be allowed to suffer the consequences of our ignorance, selfishness, and disobedience before we even stop to think. And often innocent children must suffer before the world wakes up to the evils it is committing.

When the Lord was in the world, people had fallen into such depths of ignorance of the Lord's laws and of any world higher than the material world that only physical proof of the Lord's power could open their minds. But that is not true today. We are able to think about the Lord and heavenly life whatever our physical condition may be, and when some handicap takes us for a time out of the activities of our ordinary life, we are often led to do this kind of thinking.

We all naturally like to be well, but physical health is not of first importance. Many of the world's most useful men and women - like Helen Keller, for example — have grown fine and strong through meeting physical handicaps bravely. We shall all lay these physical bodies of ours aside at death, and the really important thing is the kind of spiritual bodies which will be revealed when we wake in the other world, for we shall live in them to eternity. We are building these spiritual bodies day by day as we choose good or evil.

