
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Tell the children first the different kinds of wonderful things the Lord did while He was on earth. Go through the various miracles in the chapter in some detail. Be sure the children get the point that it is always the Lord who heals.

---
Our lesson is about some of the wonderful things the Lord did as He went about among the people. These wonderful things are called miracles.

We do not any of us like to be sick, do we?

When we are sick, the doctor comes and tells us what medicine to take. But it is really the Lord who heals us by means of the medicine. Health, like all good things, is a gift from the Lord.

But we all know that some sick people do not get well, however hard they try. It is always the Lord who really does the healing and makes us well, and He always does it if it is best for us. But sometimes He sees that we need some of the lessons that being sick teaches us. See if you can think of some of these — things you find out when you are sick that you would not think of if you were always well. And sometimes, of course, the Lord sees that it is time for a person to be taken to his home in the spiritual world.

Often when the Lord was on earth sick people were brought to Him to be healed, and He did heal many of them. But He knew their hearts and whether it would be best for them to be healed. They also had to have faith in His power to heal them. Those who believed He was the Messiah had this faith.

Can you tell some of the afflictions which the Lord healed?

And our chapter tells us about another wonderful thing the Lord did. (Read Matthew 8:23-27.)

What happened to the ship in which He was sleeping?

What did He say when His disciples woke Him?

Then what did He do?

Have you ever been frightened in a storm? This story shows you that you need not be frightened, for the Lord is always near us and ready to help us if we ask Him. Even though we cannot see Him, we can trust Him always to do what is best for us.

