
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The nature of true faith, the two reasons for the miracles, and the reason why miracles are not desirable today may all be discussed with this class. The young people should be led to see that belief in the miracles is rational and is essential to our understanding of the Bible and of the Lord's operation in the world.

---
Throughout the three years of His public ministry the Lord performed miracles. Each one is a study in itself, and we are not able in Sunday school to take up even all the afflictions healed in our chapter for today. But we need to know that all the miracles were performed by means of correspondence, thus according to divine order and not contrary to it. Any claim that the miracles are "contrary to nature" overlooks the origin of natural law. The laws of nature are the Lord's laws for nature and all nature is perpetually under His control. The study of medicine is the attempt to learn the natural causes of disease and to overcome it by the use of natural means. It is a right and useful study. Yet we know that many lose the fight against disease "in spite of all the doctor could do," and we know that many recover whom the doctors have "given up." The Lord is always the source of health, both physical and mental, whether He works through doctors and medicine or independently of them. When He was in the world, divine power was immediately present and effective with those who came to Him in faith.

Faith in the Lord's divine power was a prerequisite for healing in all His miracles. This faith was and is essential to the establishment of that inner conjunction with the Lord which enables Him to act directly into the human soul. It is the opening of the door to the Lord of which He speaks in Revelation 3:20. Genuine faith also means that the person will cooperate with the Lord by obeying His commands. If we have this faith, the Lord can do many things for us, even physically, which He cannot otherwise do. We know that many physical and mental ills are the direct result of evil passions and of fear and worry, things which are rejected from the heart and mind of one who trusts in the Lord and obeys Him.

The miracles of the Lord were not performed to convince the unbelieving. Read Matthew 9:34 and 13:54-58. Indeed, the miracles would not have been performed except among people of such a character that they could see such things and if they wished attribute them to other than divine power. For the Lord forces no one to believe in Him. The miracles strengthened the faith only of those who already believed.

But the deeper reason for the miracles was that they might be recorded in the Word and by their correspondence teach us what the Lord will do for our souls. Divine providence looks always to our spiritual rather than to our physical health. To seek to believe in the Lord in order that we may be physically well is an inversion of true order. Physical health is a blessing only to those who will be better off spiritually with than without it. We know that with many men and women, physical disability of one kind or another has been a spur to efforts which have resulted in greatness, and we know that many healthy persons are neither good nor useful members of society.

Each miracle in our chapter points out to us some spiritual failing which by the Lord's power we can recognize and overcome. Leprosy is a picture of hypocrisy, of what Swedenborg calls "profanation of truth." The skin of the leper was very white, but there was disease within, which gradually destroyed the tissues and eventually rendered the person's appearance horrible. So a hypocrite may at first impress people as an exemplary citizen, but when they come to see what he is within, they are deeply repelled by him. We should try to think whether or not we are doing good deeds only "to be seen of men," and should set ourselves with the Lord's help to make our goodness genuine and sincere instead of sham.

Palsy is the inability to control the muscles, to walk and act firmly. It pictures the inability to carry out steadily in our acts the good intentions of our hearts. In this chapter the palsied man was the servant of a Roman centurion, a Gentile. The Lord often contrasts the hypocrisy of those who had the law with the humility of the Gentiles and their genuine desire to learn how to live rightly. It was the centurion's complete reliance on the Lord's power which enabled the Lord to heal the servant without even entering his home.

Fever is a picture of being "burned up," as we often call it, by resentment or some other wrong feeling. The hand is the symbol of power in action. The Lord can take us by the hand and give us strength to put away such feelings, if our desire in life is to minister to others.

The stilling of the storm teaches us that the Lord's spirit in our hearts can quiet all the adverse winds and waves which threaten to overwhelm us. The Lord is never really asleep — it is we who are asleep to His presence.

The casting out of devils is the symbol of the Lord's power to cleanse our hearts of evil passions and our minds of false thoughts if only we will look to Him for guidance and strength. Swine are the symbol of bodily appetites, and we should be able to see that our evil passions actually make us animals instead of men, and destroy us. Notice that the inhabitants of the city cared more for their swine than they did for the healing of their sick brothers.

As New Churchmen we should be able to answer the common question, "Why, if we have faith, should we not expect miracles today?" One of the clearest answers in the writings of the church is found in the passage quoted at the end of this lesson.

