
=== Adult

The quotation at the end of the lesson may offer additional material for discussion. The teacher should read all the notes from the Intermediate up in order to be able to answer questions on the correspondence of details of the vision, as some have not been repeated in the Adult notes. We need to define clearly the basis of our church and our own responsibility.

---
In the vision we considered from chapter 12, the principal action was on the plane of the heavens rather than of the earth. The vision of our lesson today shows the effect on earth of the dragon's presence and subtlety. The two beasts of chapter 13 picture those of the laity and those of the clergy in the Protestant Church who have confirmed in their lives the doctrine of faith alone. The first beast rises out of the sea and the second out of the earth because the laity are "in the externals of the doctrine of the church, and the clergy are in its internals." The various animals which form parts of the first beast are different manifestations of affections of falsity, the leopard "heresy destructive of the church," the bear "fallacies from the sense of the letter of the Word read but not understood," and the lion "falsity in its power appearing like truth by reasonings." The "two horns like a lamb" in the second beast signify that the clergy "speak, teach, and write from the Word, as if it were from the Lord's Divine truth, and yet it is truth falsified." It is the dragon which gives the first beast its power, and we read that the second beast speaks "as a dragon."

The interpretation of the deadly wound suffered by one of the seven heads of the dragon and its healing is particularly enlightening. In @AR 576 and 577 we read: "And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded unto death, signifies that this point of doctrine, which is the head of the rest, that man is justified and saved by faith alone without the works of the law, does not agree with the Word, where works are so often commanded. ... And the stroke of his death was healed, signifies the healing of that head of the doctrine by this reasoning, that no one can do a good work of himself, and fulfil the law, and that there is on that account provided another means of salvation instead, which is faith in the justice and merit of Christ, who suffered for man, and thereby took away the condemnation of the law."

The last verse of chapter 13 should be taken to heart by all of us. If we are New Churchmen we believe that the opening of the inner meaning of the Word was the Second Coming of the Lord, in which Swedenborg was merely an instrument, the true "servant of the Lord Jesus Christ." The interpretation of these visions in Revelation is not Swedenborg's therefore, but the Lord's. The conditions and states of thinking here attributed directly to the Reformed or Protestant Church are not merely conditions as Swedenborg perhaps saw them. They are conditions which the Lord saw and which are still evident today if we do not close our eyes to them. The same is true in regard to the interpretation of the visions recorded in chapters 17 and 18, in which the evils of the Roman Catholic Church are exposed and judged. If the New Church is to grow upon earth, its members must face facts, even when these facts are as unpleasant and threatening as the dragon and the beasts. Swedenborg says many times that falsities must be exposed and rejected before the truth will be generally accepted. Read @AR 547.

If we are wise, we shall "count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is six hundred threescore and six." This number, we are told, "signifies this quality, that all the truth of the Word is falsified by them." We meet this falsification of the Word in some of the works of modern scholarship, in theological magazines, in sermons, and in the arguments of fanatics. If we are wise, we shall recognize and face it, not try to close our eyes to its existence under the pretense of charity. We do neither the Lord nor the neighbor, nor yet the New Church, service by compromising with falsity.

The overcoming of the beasts is the work of the Lord in His Word. The opening of heaven (Revelation 19:11) is the opening of the internal sense of the Word and the white horse is the interior understanding of it. The details of the description of the horse's rider are all familiar to us. His eyes as a flame of fire "signifies the Divine wisdom of the Lord's Divine love." The diadems upon His head are "the Divine truths of the Word." The "name written" is the quality of the Word in its interiors, which only the Lord knows and is able to reveal. The garment dipped in blood is "Divine truth in its ultimate sense, or the Word in the letter, to which violence has been offered." The sharp sword going out of His mouth "signifies the dispersion of falsities, by doctrine from the Lord." The whole picture should impress upon us the fact that the New Church is founded on the truth that the Lord Jesus Christ is the only God of heaven and earth, that He conjoins Himself to man by means of the Word, and that the opening of the Word is His doing and necessary to the salvation of mankind. The church on earth has power only as it looks to the Lord in His Word for all its direction. The Lord has indeed spread a feast before us, food which our souls need if they are to have strength and wisdom to meet the demands of our age and to accomplish the work which the Lord has given us to do. Let us not be among those who "beg to be excused" from this feast.

