
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The book of Revelation in its letter makes a deep impression on young children. If they can be led to associate these great pictures with their own little temptations, the Word is brought home to them with all its power to help. Children love to dramatize, and if we suggest how the dragon and the beast are at war with the Lord and the angels in each of us, their own imaginations will do the rest. We do not have to work out dramatizations for children. The adult imagination is likely to be a hindrance rather than a help to them.

---
In the vision of a woman clothed with the sun and of a great red dragon which threatened her, you remember that Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and cast him down out of heaven, and the woman and her child were saved.

The visions of John are pictures of things that go on in our hearts and minds. They are given in the Bible to help us see ourselves as the Lord and the angels see us.

The woman and her child we may think of as our good feelings and thoughts. The dragon - "that old serpent" - is a picture of the excuses we make in our thoughts for doing what we know is wrong.

Our lesson today shows us what goes on in our hearts.

What did John see rising up out of the sea?

How was this beast like the dragon?

What different animals seemed to be part of him?

That was a strange vision, wasn't it? The beast seemed to be made up of different kinds of animals, and the dragon was helping him. All the things John saw in his visions were pictures of things that go on in people's minds and hearts. The dragon was that same old serpent who has tempted people from the beginning of the world, and whenever a little voice in your mind whispers to you to do something you know is wrong, you may know that it is the voice of the dragon.

But sometimes you do wrong without even stopping to think about it, don't you? Perhaps you get angry and strike somebody, or you snatch something which another child is playing with and enjoying. This is the work of the beast in your heart — the love of getting what you want no matter how much it hurts somebody else.

Perhaps you think you can't help doing these naughty things.

But that isn't so. That is just the voice of the dragon helping the beast.

Who appeared out of heaven to oppose the beast?

What can you tell about this rider?

What three different names are given him?

Who were with him?

What happened to the beast?

In our hearts the beast is the love of getting the things we want regardless of other people's rights and happiness.

If you see how wrong these things are and try hard not to do them, the Lord will help you to overcome the beast, too, just as the rider on the white horse did in John's vision. The rider on the white horse is a picture of the Lord speaking to us in His Word, for the lesson tells us: "His name is called the Word of God."

Can you see why the rider on the white horse is called "the Word of God"?

Where do we find the Lord's help?

