
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The teacher should keep in the pupils' minds the distinction between judging principles and judging individual people. The Seniors are already facing the temptation to "follow the crowd." This temptation takes many forms, often excusing weakness of will under the disguise of charity. Neither the individual nor the New Church is helped by ignoring the plain—speaking of the writings and assuming that "all this is changed since Swedenborg's day." The evidences of its continued presence are all about us. Our young people should be clear-sighted.

---
The vision described in chapter 12 represents the intellectual opposition which the New Church would find in the Christian world. The vision which follows it, which is the subject of our lesson for today, represents the deeper opposition which comes from selfishness in the heart when it is supported by the doctrine of faith alone of the former church. We might note here that this is the doctrine on the basis of which the "Reformed" or Protestant Church originally separated itself from the Roman Catholic Church. The Roman Catholic Church does not hold that doctrine, but separated from the Lord in another direction, by setting up the priesthood, and in particular the pope of Rome, as the spiritual authority on earth with power to save or to condemn men. This evil, together with its ultimate destruction, is pictured in the visions recorded in chapters 17 and 18 of Revelation.

Swedenborg interprets the two beasts of chapter 13 as the laity and the clergy of the Reformed Church, but we should note that he is not talking about all Protestant laymen and ministers, but about those who have "confirmed" in their lives the principal doctrine of Protestantism, which is "faith alone." To confirm a doctrine is to live according to it. No individual is either saved or condemned by membership in any particular church organization on earth. A person is saved by the development of love to the Lord and the neighbor in his heart and the carrying out of these two loves in his life. In every church organization there are people who are regenerating and people who are not. This is a matter of free choice. At the same time we should not fall into the popular fallacy that "one church is as good as another." If we are really trying to live as the Lord would have us live, we shall long for genuine truth to guide us, and the more genuine truth we can obtain the better and happier we shall be. Swedenborg tells us that the New Church is to be "the crown of all the churches." This is because it is founded on the acknowledgment of Jesus Christ as the only God of heaven and earth and on the genuine truths of the internal sense of the Word. We are New Churchmen only to the extent that we accept the Lord as our authority and try to study and live these truths.

Read carefully the quotation at the end of this lesson, which shows why the actual acceptance of the doctrine of faith alone makes a man a beast such as is pictured in our lesson. In the numbers which follow it Swedenborg tells us that a leopard "signifies the affection or lust of falsifying the truths of the Word," a bear signifies being "full of fallacies from the sense of the letter of the Word read but not understood," and a lion signifies "Divine truth in power ... but here falsity in power appearing like truth by reasonings."

The deadly wound which one of the heads of the beast received relates to the obvious fact that charity and good works are so constantly commanded in the Scriptures, and the healing of this wound "signifies the healing of that head of the doctrine by this reasoning, that no one can do a good work of himself, and fulfil the law, and that there is on that account provided another means of salvation instead, which is faith in the justice and merit of Christ, who suffered for man, and thereby took away the condemnation of the law." That the second beast — who represents the clergy — had two horns like a lamb and spake like a dragon signifies "that they speak, teach, and write from the Word, as if it were from the Lord's Divine truth, and yet it is truth falsified."

From these quotations you can form a general idea of what the vision represents and of how much is involved in each detail of it. It would be impossible in one Sunday school session to go into all the details, but we should note Revelation 13:18. We may sometimes say, "I've got his number," when we think we have discovered a person's hidden motives and ways of thinking. If we are truly wise, we shall "count the number of the beast"; that is, we shall keep in mind the underlying falsity on which Protestantism was originally based and the lengths to which it still can lead the person who really accepts it. Of the number six hundred sixty-six Swedenborg says that it signifies that "all the truth of the Word is falsified by them."

We remember that Michael and his angels cast the dragon down out of heaven but that he still remained active on the earth. The two beasts were the result of the dragon's activity. In chapter 19 we find that, although heavenly societies of angels help, it is the Lord Himself who must overcome the beasts — Swedenborg identifies the "false prophet" with the second beast. The opening of heaven in Revelation 19:11 is the opening of the internal sense of the Word in the Second Coming, and all the details of the description of the rider on the white horse teach us about the Lord as He should appear to us in the Word. In opening the Word the Lord invites us to a feast. If we accept His invitation, He can give us power to recognize and overcome all the temptations presented to us in the modes of thought current in the world around us.

