
=== Primary

This class should be able to recall that the Israelites are on their way from Egypt to the Holy Land, how they are being led, and who is their human leader. Now they should learn the name Sinai and the fact that it was a great mountain and that from its top the Lord spoke the ten commandments. Dwell on the verse, "And God spake all these words, saying." Then go through the commandments rapidly. being sure the children get the literal meaning of each one. Some will be familiar and easy for them to understand. Others will not. The commandment about coveting is a good one to emphasize with children of this age. Others may be suggested by their questions.

You can imagine how happy the children of Israel were when they found themselves on the other side of the Red Sea and saw how the Lord had saved them from the Egyptians. Moses sang a song of victory and praise of the Lord, and his sister Miriam and the other women sang and danced for joy.

Then the people set out into the wilderness, led by the pillar of cloud and fire. There were a great many of them, as many people as there are in a large city today. and they had flocks and herds with them which had to stop and feed: so they could not travel fast. They slept in tents. Whenever the pillar of cloud and fire stopped, they stopped and set up their tents: and when it moved on, they broke camp and followed it.

Once the Lord brought great flocks of quails for them to eat, and because they could not stop to raise grain for bread. He gave them something they called manna, which they gathered every morning and made into cakes. It tasted like honey. And He helped them to conquer an enemy who attacked them.

Their way was not easy and they often complained.

But the Lord always took care of them.

In the third month the pillar of cloud and fire stopped near a great mountain, and the people camped at its foot.

What was the name of this mountain?

The Lord told Moses that He would speak to them from the mountain.

On the third day there were "thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people in the camp trembled."

Then the people all heard the voice of the Lord speaking. What did He say first?

Then what did He give them?

We must all learn and keep the ten commandments because they are God's laws.

No one who breaks them can be happy.

So the Lord gave them for our good, to keep us from unhappiness.

