
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: Through what kind of country did the Israelites have to travel to reach the Holy Land? wilderness or desert

Junior: What things did they miss which they had had in Egypt? fresh food, water

Junior: How did the Lord take care of them? manna, quails, water from rock

Primary: To what mountain did they come in the third month? Sinai

Junior: Were they allowed to go up on the mountain? no

Junior: On the third morning what happened which made the people tremble? thunder, trumpets

Primary: Whose voice did they hear? God's

Primary: What did the Lord first say about Himself? "1 am the Lord thy God"

Primary: Then what did He give the people? the ten commandments

Junior: Into what two groups can the commandments be divided? 1-5,6-10

Junior: What does the first group teach? duties to God

Junior: What does the second group teach? duties to man

Intermediate: Had these commandments been known before? yes

Intermediate: Why did the Lord speak them from Sinai? to show they were divine laws

Senior: What does the wilderness journey picture? reformation — the long period of preparation for spiritual living

== THE ARK OF THE COVENANT — Exodus 25:1-22

It is important that certain major events be mentioned briefly, because they prepared the minds of the Israelites to receive willingly the long series of instructions and laws which were given to them at Sinai. Note especially two things: they came to Sinai early in their journey — the third month — and during their eleven month stay there they were formed into an organized nation with a government which lasted them throughout their history and still to some extent persists with some Jews of the present day. Also call attention to the fact that the materials for the tabernacle and its furnishings were free offerings of all the people, and remind them of where they got those materials (Exodus 12:35-36). Some commentators have ridiculed the idea that the tabernacle was actually so fine a production, calling the Israelites a nomadic people who could not possibly have possessed the materials required or been capable of receiving so complex a system of laws. It is hard to see how they could forget that the Israelites had not been nomads for several hundred years and that Moses had been brought up as a member of the royal household, to say nothing of the plain statement as to the source of their material wealth.

