
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are two especially important discussion topics for the Adults in this chapter: the necessity of recognizing the sole deity of Jesus Christ if we are to find the living water in the Word, and the receptiveness of the Samaritans in contrast to the closed minds of those of the established church. Both points have an immediate bearing upon our thought of our own church and of our responsibility in our relations with people of other churches.

---
When the kingdom of Israel was conquered by Assyria, all its people were carried away captive, never to return. To take their place in the land the king of Assyria sent in people from the East. We read this story in 2 Kings 17, which tells also how, when these foreigners were troubled by lions and believed it was because they did not know the manner of worship of the gods of this new land, a priest of Israel was sent back to teach them, after which they worshiped Jehovah, but continued also to worship their own gods. Now we read in John 4 that after seven hundred years their descendants were still regarded as aliens and shunned with Pharisaic fanaticism. Yet Samaria was the central one of the three great divisions of the Holy Land, the link between Judea and Galilee. Judea pictures the inmost plane of our life — the will or motives — and Galilee the outmost — the conduct. Between these two is Samaria, the thought plane. When the Lord went from Judea to Galilee, "he must needs go through Samaria." Before we can carry out our desires in external conduct, we must think about them. We know how far astray we often go through trying to carry out our desires without thought. When we think of the Holy Land as picturing the church in us, Judea pictures the celestial church, worship of the Lord in the heart; Samaria the spiritual church, worship of the Lord in the mind; and Galilee the external church, worship of the Lord in the outward life. The spiritual church is the church which is in the affection of truth, and its associated good is the good of charity toward the neighbor (@AC 2702[5]; @AE 375[42]). When Israel was carried away captive, spiritual truth was lost, and the people who replaced the Israelites remained Gentiles, ignorant of the truth, although they had some knowledge of the letter of the Scriptures.

In the Lord's time the Samaritans were symbols of "the gentiles who were in the good of charity toward the neighbor" (@AE 375[42]). The parable of the Good Samaritan embodies this significance. So, too, the woman in our lesson today had been married five times and was now living with one not her husband. This pictures one who wishes to do good and who has tried one religious faith after another, and whose idea of truth still is not adequate to her desire. Her water jar pictures her limited doctrine. It is evident from the story that the Samaritans heard the Lord gladly and accepted Him as the Messiah; so they picture all Gentiles "that were to receive Divine truths from Him" (@AE 483[12]). Because of their humility and desire to be instructed they received the Lord much more readily than the Jews, and we know that the Christian Church grew up among the Gentiles, although it was begun among the Jews. The Lord told the woman of Samaria that the Jews had the knowledge which was necessary to salvation, but He also told her that worship at Jerusalem as well as worship on the mountain in Samaria would shortly be superseded by a different and more spiritual type of worship. Swedenborg tells us that every new dispensation, although it begins with the good remnant of the former one, develops principally among the well—disposed Gentiles, and he says that this will be true of the New Church.*

[*See the footnote to the Senior notes. -Editor]

The region around Sychar was hallowed ground. It was the "parcel" bought by Jacob from Hamor the Hivite, the father of Shechem, and given to Joseph as an extra portion (Genesis 48:22). Joseph's bones, brought up out of Egypt at the time of the Exodus, were buried there. Jacob's well, the "fountain of Jacob," is also mentioned in Deuteronomy 33:28. Jacob's well is a picture of the Word (@AC 2702[5]). The Samaritans possessed and used this well, picturing those who possess and use the Scriptures. But the well was deep. The fact that they drew their water from the well in small quantities and with great effort symbolizes the way many draw their truth from the Word. And, as the Lord said, "Whoever drinks of this water shall thirst again." Mere external knowledge, even of the Scriptures, does not satisfy. The Lord must "sit on the well" and give us "living" water. The truth must be made living by our consciousness of His loving presence in the Word. So long as we see only the external sense of the Word, its harsh commands, its condemnation of evil, its stories of wars and destruction, we draw refreshing truth from it only in small amounts and with great labor. But when we see the Lord within it, showing us the hideousness and destructiveness of evil only so that we may avoid it, and accommodating His truth to us in all our states, however far away from Him we have willfully gone, so that we may be led back to the way of peace, then the truth becomes to us "a well of water springing up into everlasting life," satisfying us at every turn with knowledge of the Lord's loving purpose and guidance and of His providence over us.

In Revelation 22:17 the Lord's invitation to the woman of Samaria is given to all: "And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely." The Christian Church, springing from the Lord's living presence with men, was to be an internal church, observing the external forms of worship not as religion itself, but as symbolic expressions of the true worship in the heart and mind. God is Spirit, dwelling within the good works of those who look to Him for guidance and power. He is with us just as really today as He was with the woman of Samaria, ready to give us living water if we ask Him.

It is interesting to consider the fact that, while the Lord talked of water to the Samaritan woman, who pictures goodness desiring truth, He talked to His disciples, who picture those instructed in truth, of living food. The food which they went away to the city to buy and which they offered Him on their return is a symbol of natural goodness, just as the water the woman drew for herself from Jacob's well was the symbol of natural truth. The Lord contrasted it with His food, just as He contrasted natural water with living water. The woman had charity and needed faith. The disciples had faith and needed charity. The Lord's food, the food which nourished His real life, was "to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work." To do the Lord's will instead of our own is what nourishes and strengthens our spiritual bodies, our heavenly character. To forget self in doing the Lord's work is what brings happiness. The same lesson is taught in John 4:35-38. In @AE 911[16] Swedenborg tells us that these verses treat of the establishment of a new church, and that the one who labors is the Lord, and we enter into His labors. He, as we learn from the familiar parable, is the Lord, and we enter into His labors. He, as we learn from the familiar parable, is the sower.

Then, as if to give us a concrete example of the working of His Spirit, we are told how the Samaritans came to Him and urged Him to stay with them, and how they accepted Him as the Christ, the savior of the world. At first they believed because of the testimony of the woman, but afterward because they had heard Him themselves. Our first acceptance of the Lord should be from an impulse of the heart, but this must be followed by acceptance by the reason. John 4:26 is an important verse for us to remember, for people who do not wish to acknowledge the Lord as God sometimes claim that He never Himself said He was the Messiah. Only recognition of the Lord as the one God of heaven and earth harmonizes all the Scripture and enables us to go to the Word with confidence for guidance and strength and to receive it with joy.

