
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson in its Old Testament background involves some review, in which the correspondence will be interesting and helpful, and the meaning of the lesson itself is important. Stress the necessity of recognizing the Lord as God and seeing that all genuine truth and goodness are from Him.

---
The Lord and His disciples had been to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover and were returning to Galilee. One of the first things to notice in our lesson today is the statement in John 4:4 that "he must needs go through Samaria." We have learned that the three divisions of the Holy Land in Gospel days — Judea, Samaria, and Galilee — represent the three planes in our lives — will, thought, and act. The Lord made this journey between Judea and Galilee in one direction or the other many times. In either direction He had to pass through Samaria. Spiritually this is true in our lives. When we have a desire of some kind, in order to carry it out in act we must think about it. And before the circumstances of our outward life and conduct can have any effect on our will or motives, we must think about them. Our minds are the connecting link between our motives and our conduct.

This part of the land was inhabited by the Samaritans. You remember that they were descendants of the foreigners who were brought in to settle the land when the kingdom of Israel was conquered by Assyria and its people were carried away captive never to return. This explains why the Jews had no dealings with the Samaritans. They were not of their nation. However, the Samaritans to some extent practiced their religion, although they did not go to Jerusalem to worship. In 2 Kings 17 we are told that when the foreigners first came into the land, they were plagued by lions and thought that it was because they did not know how to worship the gods of this land. So the king of Assyria sent back one of the captured priests to teach them, and they added the worship of Jehovah to the worship of the various gods of their native lands. Verse 41 of 2 Kings 17 says: "So these nations feared the Lord, and served their graven images, both their children, and their children's children: as did their fathers, so do they unto this day." Some of the statements of the woman of Samaria in our chapter are explained by this.

There is also an internal meaning for us in this condition. We all grow up in the world. Our minds have in them some knowledge of the truths of the Word, but this knowledge is mixed up with all sorts of worldly ideas, many of them accepted because they favor our natural selfishness — our native land. Yet we do have a center which we recognize as the source of genuine truth to which we go regularly when we feel the need, as the woman of Samaria went to Jacob's well. You may remember from our Old Testament lessons that Jacob represents the natural plane of our lives in its relation to the Lord, and a well represents the Word. In Genesis 33:19 we learn that Jacob had bought this "parcel of ground" from Hamor, who was a Hivite — the Hivites were one of the good remnants of the Ancient Church. It was this field which Jacob on his death bed gave to his son Joseph as an extra portion (Genesis 48:22), and it was here that the Israelites, after they reconquered the Holy Land, buried the bones of Joseph, which they had brought back with them from Egypt (Joshua 24:32) in accordance with Joseph's last request (Genesis 50:25-26).

The village of Sychar was in the same general locality as the old sites of Shechem and Shiloh. Shechem was the place where Abraham erected his first altar when he came into the land of Canaan from Ur of the Chaldees, and Shiloh was the place where Joshua set up the tabernacle after the conquest, with Mount Ebal to the north and Mount Gerizim to the south. The importance of this small section of the Holy Land appears clearly from all these references, and now it is finally the scene of the Lord's simple, literal statement that He was the promised Messiah (John 4:26). Try to remember this chapter and verse, for you will hear people who do not want to accept Jesus Christ as God actually say that He never claimed to be the Messiah.

Our minds, then, are symbolized by the district of Samaria.

Ideally, in the center of our minds we have the Word, to which we go for truth as we need it. If we are in the state represented by the woman of Samaria — wanting to know the truth and yet very much mixed up in our minds because of false ideas there — we have to go again and again, drawing only a little "water" (that is, truth) at a time and then thirsting again. Then suddenly one day we come to the well and find the Lord sitting there. We are faced with the necessity of making up our own minds about Jesus Christ instead of just getting along on what we have been taught. It is not until we have reached this point that we can find the living water — that the truths of the Word come to be a vital part of our lives, "a well of water springing up into everlasting life," because we see that they come from divine wisdom itself, the Lord Jesus Christ.

The woman questioned the Lord, as we have to question. It takes time to come into understanding. You remember that in general a woman represents affections and a man thoughts. What the Lord told the woman about herself in John 4:18 pictures the state of one who wants to be good and tries one system of belief after another hoping it is the right one, yet is never really satisfied. There are many people in that state today. The fact that the Lord could tell her the truth about her condition immediately convinced the woman that He was a prophet, and as she went on talking with Him, she believed more and more and finally brought others to believe in Him. It will be the same with us if we continue to learn of the Lord.

The little incident concerning the disciples balances the story.

They already believed in the Lord. They had faith in Him. But they still did not quite understand about charity. Food, in general - in contrast to drink — represents goodness. The disciples had bought food. This pictures the fact that they thought goodness or charity was something they could acquire by their own efforts and so think of as their own. But the Lord would not accept this food. He showed them that true goodness cannot be bought for a price. It comes from the Lord alone. "My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work." This teaches us the lesson that of ourselves we have no goodness and that true charity is to do as well as we can whatever work the Lord gives us to do in the world, looking to Him for the strength to do it and giving Him credit for all good that comes of it.

