
=== Junior

After the review have the class look up the Bible references. They will be interested in the story from 2 Kings 17. The more we can tie the Old Testament and the New together in their minds the better. The Juniors should also be able to get something of the correspondence of the two kinds of water.

---
Into what parts was the Holy Land divided in the Lord's time?

In which part were Jerusalem and Bethlehem?

In which part were Nazareth and Cana?

In what city in Galilee did the Lord live during His ministry?

The last part of John 2 tells us that not long after the wedding at Cana the Lord went down to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover. The events of John 3 took place there. Then the Lord started back to Galilee.

What part of the land lay between Judea and Galilee?

Where did the Lord stop to rest?

Who came to the well to draw water?

What did the Lord ask of her?

Why was the woman surprised?

To understand this chapter we need to look up some passages in the Old Testament. First read Genesis 33:18-20; 48:21-22; 50:24-26; Exodus 13:19; and Joshua 24:32. You see that this particular piece of ground had a great deal of history behind it. Yet it was now part of the district belonging to the Samaritans. This was because it had been part of the kingdom of Israel, and when Israel was conquered by Assyria, all its people were carried away captive and never came back. Foreigners were brought in to settle the land in their place. The Samaritans were the descendants of these foreigners. Now you can see why the Jews had no dealings with the Samaritans. They despised them because they were not Jews.

Yet you find in our story that the Samaritan woman was aware that the Messiah was to come and was willing to believe the Lord, although the Samaritans did not go to Jerusalem to worship. There is an interesting story which tells us how the Samaritans came to accept part of the Jewish faith but not all of it. Read this story in 2 Kings 17:24-33.

What did the Lord say that the woman should have asked of Him? What did He say about this "living" water?

What did He tell the woman about herself?

What question did she ask Him?

What did He tell her about God?

What did He tell her about the Messiah?

What did He tell His disciples about His food?

The Samaritans believed the Lord much more readily than the Jews did. They were like the Gentile people of Nineveh who believed Jonah and repented. This was because they were not full of pride in themselves and their own wisdom. You know that when a person "thinks he knows it all," it is very hard to teach him anything.

Now let us think a little about what the Lord meant by "living" water. You know that water is the symbol of truth. We sometimes say a person has a "thirst for knowledge." Our minds need knowledge just as our bodies need water. And we need knowledge about the Lord and heaven and about what is right and wrong. This is the water of Jacob's well — the knowledge we get from the Word of God. We are constantly having to learn more of this kind of knowledge. But people may have a great deal of knowledge about the letter of the Word and yet not be good people. This was the case with the scribes and Pharisees. They were proud of their knowledge, but did not use it to correct their own evils. They did not take it to heart. Those who received the Lord, however, wanted truth from Him so that they could live according to it. They came to Him for truth for their souls. This is the living water, because we receive it constantly from the Lord and make it our own by obeying it.

