
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The history of the parcel of ground may be used to bring back to the children's minds the names Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, and Moses. Then tell them who the Samaritans were and why they were despised, so that they will understand the woman's words in John 4:9 when you read the story. If they show any curiosity about the Lord's words, tell them simply that the living water is truth about the Lord and heaven, which our souls need just as our bodies need water. Stress the fact that the Samaritans readily believed the Lord.

---
After the wedding in Cana, where the Lord turned water into wine, He went down to Jerusalem to the Passover feast. On His way back to Galilee He was going through the part of the land called Samaria, and He stopped to rest at Jacob's well.

Do you remember who Jacob was? He was Isaac's son and Abraham's grandson. Long, long before the time of our story he had bought a piece of ground near the center of the land and had dug a well there. And when he died, he left this particular piece of land to his son Joseph. Perhaps you remember, too, that when Joseph died in Egypt, he commanded his people not to bury him in Egypt but to preserve his body and take it back with them when they went home. So they embalmed his body and put it in a coffin, and when Moses led them out of Egypt, they took Joseph's body with them. They carried it all through the journey in the wilderness and, after they conquered the Holy Land, finally buried it in this very piece of land which Joseph had received from his father. So Jacob's well was a very fitting place for the Lord to rest.

But the people who lived in the neighborhood at this time were not Jews. They were called Samaritans. They were descended from the foreigners whom the Assyrians had sent in to take the place of the people of Israel when their kingdom was overthrown by Assyria. So now, even after hundreds of years, the Jews still despised the Samaritans, although the Samaritans to some extent had accepted the religion of the Jews. We need to know this to understand our story for today.

What did the Lord ask of the Samaritan woman?

What did the Lord tell the woman she ought to ask of Him? She did not understand what He was talking about.

"Living" water means truth from the Lord, for which our souls ought to be thirsty.

The Samaritans had learned about the Jewish religion and accepted part of it. What question did the woman ask which showed this?

What did the Lord tell her? The woman believed Him, and she went and brought other Samaritans to hear Him.

He stayed with them two days teaching them, and they believed what He said.

