
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson for this class may well be centered on the Samaritan state in our minds. Young people take into their minds in school and through their friends many things which they are not prepared to evaluate. If they know this, they will find it less difficult to hold their faith until understanding comes to them with maturity.

---
Our chapter for today really carries one step further the lesson of the miracle at Cana. Between that miracle and the story of the Lord at Jacob's well, the Lord had been to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover and there had given Nicodemus the teaching concerning the necessity of rebirth or regeneration. Of the three divisions of the land in the time of the Lord, Judea represents the plane of will or motive. Samaria the plane of thought, and Galilee the plane of outward life or conduct. In the miracle at Cana in Galilee the Lord teaches us that only as we use the truth in our daily lives can we come to enjoy right living. In His instruction to Nicodemus in Judea (John 3) He points out that our motives must be made heavenly instead of selfish. Now in returning to Galilee he "must needs go through Samaria" and His lesson there has to do with our thoughts.

Our minds — at least during the early years of our lives — are a sort of "no man's land." We have in them knowledges of right and wrong given us from the Word by our parents and teachers, the "parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph." And we also have in our minds "Jacob's well," the Word in its letter. But the land is in the possession of the Samaritans, who were Gentiles although they knew and accepted many of the precepts of Judaism. The Samaritans were descendants of the foreigners whom the king of Assyria sent in to take the place of the ten tribes of Israel who were carried away and never returned. In 2 Kings 17 you will find the story which explains the religious confusion in which the Samaritans were. The Jews despised them and would have no dealings with them, but throughout the Gospels they are represented as well-disposed people and more open to instruction by the Lord than were the Jews. Swedenborg tells us that every new religious dispensation, while it begins among the good remnant of the former dispensation, has its real growth among the Gentiles. This was true of the First Christian Church and it will be true of the New Church.* Right now the New Church is growing much faster in Asia and Africa than in the so-called Christian countries.

[* Although some statements in Swedenborg give this impression (e.g., @AE 49, 52), there is considerable reason to doubt that this is his final position. See, for instance, @AR 547, which strongly implies that the New Church will grow from "the former church" once falsities are removed. -Editor]

There is also a Gentile state in many people living in Christian countries. Many people all around us are well-disposed but in complete confusion as to their religious belief. The Lord said of the Samaritan woman, "Thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband." We remember that in general a woman represents affections and a man thoughts. The Samaritan woman had never found the right husband. So good people today may drift from one denomination to another without ever finding a doctrine in which they can really believe. It is just such people that we of the New Church organization should recognize as the fields "white already to harvest." Because, like the disciples, we have accepted the Lord and have the knowledge these Christian Gentiles are seeking.

The contrast in our chapter between the Lord's words to the Samaritan woman and His words to His disciples is very striking. The Samaritan woman came to Jacob's well to draw water. Good intentions or charity must seek truth. The disciples, who had accepted the Lord as the truth, had "gone away unto the city to buy meat." Here the disciples stand for those who seek goodness, but think they can obtain it by their own efforts apart from the Lord. Faith must be united to charity, but often those who have faith look to themselves as the source of goodness and to the world about them for direction in exercising it. The Lord did not accept the food which the disciples brought Him. He told them, "My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work." True charity is not in obvious external benefactions, but in humble obedience to the Lord in whatever work He gives us to do.

One of the most striking passages in our chapter is found in John 4:13-14. "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again ..." We get truth from the letter of the Word as we go to it to draw for ourselves, but we can get only a little at a time and with much effort. The well is deep and our own "pitcher" is very limited in capacity. But when we accept the Lord Jesus Christ as our one God, the source of all truth and goodness, the truth in the Word becomes living from His presence in it. The Word then becomes in our minds "a well of water springing up into everlasting life."

One more thing in this chapter we need to note carefully. You will meet people who wish to think that Jesus Christ was merely the best man who ever lived, and such people will sometimes tell you that Jesus Himself never claimed to be the Messiah. Then remember that in John 4:26 Jesus told the woman of Samaria without hesitation or circumlocution that He was the Messiah.

