
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the parable should be taken up in some detail. Then discuss the story of Mary and Martha and the relation between the two stones as they illustrate the teaching of the two great commandments.

---
This is one of the most familiar of the Lord's parables, but it is found only in the Gospel of Luke. The lawyer and his question are found also in Matthew 22:35, and there the Lord Himself answers with the two great commandments. In Matthew the lesson is connected with the question of the Lord's authority, but in Luke it is related to our personal life. The lesson here taught the lawyer was that mercy and kindness are the important thing — not race, or class, or learning. He had to admit that the despised Samaritan might be a better man than the priest or the Levite. We should notice, however, that it is the Samaritan who is called the neighbor, which places the emphasis on his worthiness to be loved.

Every one of the Lord's parables has an obvious lesson of this sort which anyone can see and take to heart. But there is much more to be drawn from the study of their correspondence. Jerusalem, where the temple was, pictures the church, or states of spiritual insight and resolution in which all of us are at times. We cannot stay in these states, however, without being called upon to do something about it. We have to go back to the low plane of everyday living where we are to carry out our good resolutions. The thieves which lurk by the wayside are the evil impulses and wrong thoughts stirred up in us by the hells which are likely to attack us suddenly and rob us of our high ideas and intentions, leaving us half dead spiritually. Doesn't this very thing happen to every one of us over and over again?

The priest and the Levite, representatives of the corrupt church, picture knowledge of what is right and true held in the mind only, with no warm affection for doing good. Such knowledge does not help us when temptation attacks. The Samaritan represents the simple desire to do good which comes to our aid. He binds up our wounds, pouring in oil and wine — love and truth — and mounts us on his own beast, which pictures reasoning from a basis of simple goodness, and brings us to a haven where we can regain our strength. And he promises to do more for us if we have need of it.

So the Lord pointed to goodness as the neighbor to be loved.

Swedenborg tells us that it is the good in everyone which we are to regard as our neighbor. It follows from this, for one thing, that to love our enemies is not to condone the evil in them but to try to check it, and to recognize that there is also good in them which we may help to bring out and increase if we try. People are drawn together by similar qualities of good. So in heaven people who are close together in their affections are close together externally — neighbors indeed.

Some people have pointed to this parable as teaching that the only thing really required of us is external good works, but this is not what it means. The very next incident in the Word makes this clear. Notice this particularly. If we will read carefully enough, the Lord always helps us to avoid misunderstanding His teaching in the Word. Mary and Martha were both good women. But Martha's thought was centered on ministering to the Lord's bodily needs, while Mary sat at His feet and heard His words. When Martha asked the Lord to send Mary to help her in the external good works, the Lord told her that Mary had chosen the better part - the one thing really needful.

If we do not use all our opportunities to learn what the Lord has to say to us, we shall make many mistakes, and often do more harm than good. To help a bad person in external ways may merely be helping him to continue in his evil course. And if we do not care to learn of the Lord, we fall into the thought that the "good works" we do are evidence that we are good. We praise ourselves and condemn people who are not doing just what we do. So our good works are not inwardly good at all.

If we can keep in mind that it is the good in other people which is the neighbor to be helped, and that we can do nothing good except as we look to the Lord for guidance and power, we shall become better and better able to serve both the Lord and the neighbor, and really help to bring about the Lord's kingdom on earth.

