
=== Notes for Parents

The parable of the Good Samaritan is given us only in the Gospel of Luke, but it has become one of the most familiar stories in the Bible. The lesson of simple, everyday helpfulness which comes to us immediately as we read it is one which every good, kindly person readily sees and accepts. But unfortunately people sometimes misunderstand and misuse this parable, making it teach that if one does the outward good deeds, he is a good man, even though he does not go to church or read the Bible or even believe in God. We have all heard people say, "I do all I can to help my neighbors; that's my religion." Have you ever realized that the person who says this is simply praising himself, and that self-praise is one of the indications of inherent selfishness? We do many things for the sake of thinking well of ourselves and of being praised by our neighbors.

If you have read the whole lesson for today, you will see that the parable does not teach this at all. In the first place, the Lord made the lawyer admit that the two great commandments of the law are love to the Lord and love to the neighbor. In another Gospel the Lord says of the first of these, "This is the first and great commandment." A lawyer in those days was one who was learned in the laws of the Old Testament, and he had to be outwardly a devout worshiper of the Lord. So the lawyer had no fears for himself on that score. But he was not so sure on the second. The Lord used the Samaritan in the parable because the Jews despised the Samaritans. To them the "neighbor" could only be one of their own people. So you will notice that it was not the man who fell among thieves who is called the neighbor, but rather the Samaritan himself. The Lord was teaching the lawyer that the good in everyone is the neighbor to be loved, regardless of race or color or station.

And the Lord — knowing how prone we are to make things mean what we want them to mean — gives us immediately in the Word another story to prevent our misunderstanding the parable, for He foresaw that the time would come someday when people would be trying to "justify" themselves not for failing in love to the neighbor but for failing in love to the Lord. In the second story Martha was "distracted with much serving" — as many people are today — and the Lord told her that her sister Mary, who sat at His feet and heard His word, had chosen the better part. We do not really do good unless we constantly try to learn from the Lord what is really good, for only in this way can our self-love be driven out and the Lord's unselfish love come in and act through us in the world. Love to the Lord is the first and great commandment.

