
=== Primary

It is suggested that the teacher divide the reading from the Word, first telling the story of the lawyer's question, explaining what a lawyer was in those days, then reading the parable and talking about it, and finally reading the story of Mary and Martha. In this last reading be sure the children understand what "that good part" means. Call their attention to the two great commandments, of which they will often hear. Be sure they understand what the parable means and what it does not mean. They should also know who the Samaritans were and why the Jews despised them.

The Lord came into the world to teach us the right way to live.

One day a lawyer — a man who knew well the laws of the Old Testament — came to Him and asked Him, "Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?" That is, he wanted to know how to get to heaven. The Lord first showed him that he really knew what was necessary himself, because he knew the Old Testament. He asked the lawyer what the Scriptures taught was the most important thing for us to do. And the lawyer did know. He said, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself." The Lord told him he was right. But the lawyer had not been living exactly according to this law of love to the Lord and the neighbor, and he tried — just as we sometimes do when we know we have been doing wrong — to find some excuse for himself. He asked the Lord, "And who is my neighbor?"

The Lord's answer was a parable.

A parable is a story made up to teach a lesson.

The priests and the Levites were the ones whom the Jews of that day most respected.

In the parable what did the priest and the Levite do?

What did the Samaritan do?

Do you remember who the Samaritans were? The Jews despised the Samaritans.

What was this parable meant to teach the lawyer?

But the Lord knew that people might later misunderstand the parable. So He gave us right afterward in the Word the story of Mary and Martha.

What did Martha do?

What did Mary do?

Which did the Lord say was doing the better thing?

We have to learn from the Lord how best to help our neighbor.

The Lord put this story in the Word right after the story of the Good Samaritan because He did not want us to make the mistake of thinking that just taking care of other people's bodies was what He meant by love and kindness. We have to learn from Him other things we should do for people also — things which will help them even more. We must love the Lord first or we cannot do any good at all.

