
=== Senior

The lesson for this class should be centered on the lawyer's question and the Lord's way of answering it. The young people need to know Swedenborg's doctrine of the neighbor and what it means in our daily decisions.

---
The parable of the Good Samaritan is often misused. For the lawyer who wanted to "justify" himself in his selfish esteem it taught the lesson that mercy and kindness are better than position or learning or birth, and that the neighbor to be loved was everyone who was good. This is one of the true lessons of the parable. But people sometimes assume that this parable teaches that external kindness is the only thing needed to make a man good. They say, "There are better people outside the church than in it," and use this as an excuse for not supporting the church. It is true that some people outside of the church are better than some people in it, but this is only because there are people who are outside the church only because they have not been able to find it, and because the church is not free from hypocrites whose profession of religious belief is lip service only.

The priest and the Levite in the parable do not represent the true church and its doctrines, but the corrupt church, which had forgotten the "weightier matters of the law": justice, mercy, and faith. They picture knowledge of what is right held in the mind merely, with no warm affection for doing good. Such knowledge does not help us in times of temptation, when selfish desires and false reasonings seek to rob us of our good resolutions. Only the simple determination to do good, the Samaritan, can be counted on to help us.

That the parable does not teach the sole importance of external good works is evident from the story of Mary and Martha which follows immediately on purpose to save us from just such a mistake. Martha was "distracted with much serving," and the Lord rebuked her gently, telling her that Mary had chosen the better part in sitting at His feet and hearing His word. Good works must be done under the guidance of the Lord's truth or they are done from self and are not really good.

What the Lord points out to us in the parable is the fact that goodness is the neighbor to be loved — not any individual as such. Swedenborg tells us that it is the good in everyone which we are to regard as our neighbor and to love. This applies to our love for our friends: we are not to let our love close our eyes to their faults, if we can help them to overcome them. True love of the neighbor requires of parents that they recognize and seek to correct their children's faults. And when we are told to love our enemies, it does not mean that we are to excuse and condone evil, but to try to check it and at the same time to look for and foster all that is good in them. In this world people are drawn together by similar states of good, and in heaven such people are neighbors in fact.

This teaching is much needed in the world today. Not only every individual, but every nation and every race has its good qualities and its bad ones. Love to the neighbor demands that, instead of condemning others because they are different from ourselves or of pretending that they are not different — as the inner enemies of race prejudice sometimes do — we must love the good and hate the evil whether it is in others or in ourselves. And we must always keep in mind that love to the neighbor is the second of the two great commandments. The first is love to the Lord. In the Gospel of Matthew, where the Lord Himself speaks these two commandments, He says of love to the Lord, "This is the first and great commandment." So the story of Mary and Martha is tied in with the opening verses of our lesson.

