
=== LECTURE VI. - The Whole Fabric Of Infidel Objections Shewn To Be Without Foundation

I. General View of the System and Arguments of the preceding Lectures:
1. The first stage of the Argument: 
2. The second: 
3. The third: Important additional Testimony: 
4. The last.
II. The four Classes of Infidel
Objections stated in the first Lecture resumed, and examined by the View which has been developed of the nature of the Holy Word, and of the means of deciphering its true Signification.
1. Imputed Inconsistencies with Reason and Science considered: 
(1.) Style of Writing in the first part of the book of Genesis.
(2.) Genius of Mankind in the Primeval Ages.
(3.) Coincidences between the Narratives of this part of Scripture and ancient Traditions. 
--  Conclusion: That the Word of God pronounces no dictum upon the questions agitated by Science.
2. Imputed Contradictions considered.
(1.) The case of the water turned into blood by the Magicians of Egypt.
(2.) Why were four Gospels written?
(3.) Theory of their variations proposed.
(4.) Illustrated by the different accounts of the treatment and behaviour of the Lord Jesus Christ at the Crucifixion
(5.) By the two modes of representing the conduct of the Thieves.
(6.) The two accounts of the Temptation in the Wilderness.
(7.) Matthew's naming Jeremiah instead of Zechariah a necessary result of his Inspiration. 
-- Conclusion: That the varying statements of the Sacred Writers, fairly interpreted, actually become evidences of their Inspiration.
3. Imputed Violations of Morality considered.
(1.) That they only evince the Representative Character of the Israelitish Dispensation. 
(2.) David not the Pattern of a saint, but the Type of one.
4. Imputed Insignificance considered. General Reply confirmed; -- That all such objections arise from taking a merely superficial view of the Sacred Scriptures, and from an utter Ignorance of their true Nature.
III. Address to Christians on the Necessity of taking higher ground in their Controversy with Deists.
IV. Address to Deists, on the internal causes of Scepticism.

Conclusion.

