
=== LECTURE V. - Proofs And Illustrations Continued

2. Necessity of making the System uniform.

The Argument, respecting the proof of the Plenary Inspiration of the Scriptures by their Style, more distinctly stated.
I. Applicability of the Law which governs the Relation between Natural Objects and Spiritual and Divine Essences, or of the Science of Analogies, as a Rule for the Interpretation of the Historical Parts of the Divine Word.
1. Sentiments of Biblical Critics, and admissions of Expositors, on the Typical Nature of the Scripture History: 
(1.) In regard to the Miracles; 
(2.) And other Circumstances.
II. Just Ideas of the nature and uses of the Israelitish Dispensation necessary to the right apprehension of the Israelitish History.
1. The selection of the Israelites as a peculiar people, not intended so much for their own benefit as for the general benefit of mankind. 
2. It promoted this object; 
(1.) By their filling a station indispensable in the Divine Economy, during a period in which a higher or more extensive Dispensation could not have been received, and in supplying the Preparation without which such superior Dispensation could never be given at all: 
(2.) By furnishing the means by which the Holy Word might be written: which they did by representing divine things under External Symbols and Natural Occurrences; for which office they were peculiarly suited by their distinguishing Temper and Genius.
III. Examples of the Light which results from the application of the Rule of Analogy between Natural things and Spiritual to the Scripture Histories.
1. The Miraculous Capture of Jericho: (Josh, vi.)
(1.) The Acts of Violence performed by the Israelites, and some of the Enactments of the Law, merely permitted to them "because of the hardness of their hearts", and because they could be so overruled as to afford exact Symbolic Representations of the Spiritual and Heavenly things which are the real objects of all
the Divine Commandments. 
(2.) The Spiritual Import of the Command to destroy the Canaanites; 
(3.) of the circumstances attending the Capture of Jericho.
2. Jephthah and his vow: (Judges xi.) Remarks on the literal history.
(1.) Necessity for an appearance, on the face of the Narrative, as if the Sacrifice took place.
(2.) The Origin of Human Sacrifices: 
(3.) And of Sacrificial Worship in general; with its Ground in, and Signification by, the Science of Analogies.
(4.) The Signification of an _apparent_, and of the _actual_ Sacrifice of a Child.
(5.) The principles applied to the case of Jephthah's Vow, and shewn to explain, most satisfactorily, the statements of the Narrative.
3. The combat of David and Goliath, (1 Sam. xvii.)
4. The circumstances attending the Crucifixion of Jesus Christ.
IV. Examples of the Light which results from the application of the Rule to the Ceremonial Precepts of the Divine Word.
1. The Sacrifices in general
2. The Prohibition of various kinds of meats: (Lev. xi.)
3. The Law of the Nazarite: (Numb, vi.)
4. Baptism and the Lord's Supper; which were instituted under the Christian Dispensation as an Epitome of the whole Ceremonial Law. --  Inference from the whole.
V. Additional Argument,
1 . Proposed and Illustrated: A false Rule of Interpretation could not draw from the Scriptures a coherent sense throughout: But the Doctrine of Analogies does this: Wherefore it must be the True Rule of Interpretation, and the Scriptures must be written according to it.
2. The argument afforded by the fact, That a number of Writers, living at distant periods, produced Compositions all uniformly following this Law. --  Inference repeated, -- That the Style in which the Scriptures are composed is the truly Divine Style of Writing; and that nothing short of Plenary Divine Inspiration could be adequate to their production.
Thus they are truly denominated the Word of God.

