
=== Adult

The correspondence of the high places and the meaning of Asa's mistake in looking to Syria for help instead of to the Lord are probably the most fruitful discussion topics for this class. Read aloud in class 2 Chronicles 16:7-10, and point out how the books of Chronicles round out the narrative of the books of Kings in spite of the fact that they do not have an inner sense. Suggest that the class study at home chapters 15, 16, and 17 of 2 Chronicles and compare them with our assignment from 1 Kings.

Judah pictures our will — our desires, affections, motives — in their relation to the Lord. When once we have experienced the state pictured by Solomon, the peaceful victorious state in which our wills and our reason unite in serving the Lord, it is not easy for our will to change and become evil. The mind goes astray more readily than the will, if once the will has become regenerate. This is pictured by the contrast between the history of Israel and the history of Judah. Israel degenerated rapidly after the separation, as we have seen; its sovereignty was not passed down in unbroken succession, and its kings were evil. Judah, on the other hand, remained loyal to the line of David throughout its history, and several of its kings were good, although some weakness and compromise was found in most of them. The people of the land were idolatrous and wicked, but the kings endeavored to serve Jehovah. This is a picture of the state of our affectional life when we still wish to be good but have allowed our minds to turn from reliance upon the Word to reliance upon worldly considerations and knowledges. Our ruling principle, the king, for a long time remains prevailingly faithful to the Lord, but our lesser desires and affections, the people of the land, are led to follow our wandering thoughts, and become more and more corrupt until the king can no longer bring them back to order.

A glance at a map of the divided kingdom will help us to see the situation. See how close Jerusalem actually was to the northern border of Judah. When Israel, which should have been a great protecting bulwark, had instead become an enemy, Jerusalem was very vulnerable. The Ramah which is mentioned in our chapter for today is not the Ramah of Samuel. Ramah merely means "a hill," and there were several Ramahs. This Ramah was very close to Jerusalem on the border of Israel. Geba, which Asa built with the materials from Ramah, was just to the east of it, also on the border.

The little incident in regard to Baasha and Asa, considered in the light of this glance at the map, can readily be seen to picture the way in which our mind, once perverted, seeks control of the will by building up a stronghold of reasoning just on the border where our affections must express themselves in ideas. In the early stages of degeneration — Asa was only the third king of Judah — the good will in us is able to tear down this stronghold and to use the same materials, the same facts and arguments, to build another stronghold a little to the east of the former, a little closer to the Lord, which may serve as a defense to our religion instead of a threat. Geba also means "a hill". Every detail in the story of the relations between Israel and Judah throughout this period teaches us something about the interplay of thought and desire in us.

Asa, the great—grandson of Solomon, was a good king. Verse 11 tells us that he "did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord, as did David his father," and verse 14 says that in spite of certain shortcomings "Asa's heart was perfect with the Lord all his days." He "took away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made." He even removed Maachah, his mother — actually his grandmother — from being queen because she made an idol, and he destroyed her idol. Before Asa came to the throne Judah had had two bad kings, Rehoboam and Abijam. When the intellect abandons its allegiance to the Lord, when the mind ceases to accept the Word of the Lord as revelation, the immediate effect on the heart is bad. But there soon comes a time when the well—meaning heart recognizes at least the obvious evil results and seeks reform. This is Asa. The sodomites, according to Swedenborg, represent an extreme degree of the "love of exercising command for the sake of self and not for use" (Spiritual Diary 5939[e], 6096[29]).

"But the high places were not removed." @AC 2722 tells us: "In the Ancient Church holy worship was performed on mountains and in groves; on mountains, because mountains signified the celestial things of worship; and in groves, because groves signified its spiritual things." Later, as with many other representative forms, the significance was lost sight of and the mountains and groves worshiped as holy in themselves. The Israelites even built themselves high places and made images of their groves, turning what was originally holy into idolatry. Read John 4:20-23. High places in a good sense represent exaltation of the Lord, but in a bad sense exaltation of self. Just as the high places in the time of the divided kingdom were set up throughout the land, so the sense of our own importance and intelligence may come to pervade our daily living. There is scarcely a field of our activity where we shall not find it if we examine ourselves honestly. These are our "high places," and as long as we allow them to remain, we shall soon find new "idols" to replace those we may recognize and reject.

In the spiritual sense this failure to remove the high places leads directly to the rest of Asa's story. For even though apparently he kept his good intentions to the end, Asa was led into the serious mistake of looking to men for aid instead of to the Lord. When Baasha, king of Israel, threatened to hem him in, he turned to Syria for help. In 2 Chronicles 16:7 ff. we learn that the prophet Hanani rebuked Asa for trusting in the Syrians instead of in the Lord and that Asa was angry at the rebuke. Asa had not purged himself of self-esteem. In a good sense Syria represents the right kind of reasoning from the knowledges of truth and good on the natural plane. That there were remains of the Ancient Church in Syria we learned in the story of Balaam and in the story of the Magi. But the character of Asa's reliance on Syria pictures reliance on these knowledges as belonging to the human intelligence, not as coming from the Lord. In return for the aid of the king of Syria, Asa gave him "all the silver and gold that were left in the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the king's house." This is a picture of sacrificing interior good and truth for the sake of external immunity and advancement. Without the bulwark of spiritual intelligence, which Israel should have been to Judah, our wills are prone to give up one treasure after another through fear of the strength of our enemies. Once our minds have become convinced that the only valid truth is what men discover for themselves, we begin to give up one by one the treasures which have come to us by revelation.

When Asa was old it is recorded that "he was diseased in his feet." Here again the story as given in 2 Chronicles adds interesting details. When we have allowed ourselves to turn from reliance on the Lord to trust in the fickle support of human intelligence, even our moral character declines. The feet, as we know, picture our daily conduct, the way in which we walk. We recall how many times the Lord was called upon to heal the halt and the lame. When we undertake to set up human intelligence as the test of truth, we soon become like those who "reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man." The Lord knows better than we do what is right. It is the Lord who can say to us, "This is the way, walk ye in it," and "I am the way, the truth, and the life." The quotation from Isaiah just above is from chapter 40, which ends: "But they that wait on the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint."

