
=== Notes for Parents

We may wonder why in our assignment this week we go back from 2 Kings to 1 Kings, chapter 15. It is only because the two books of Kings, in following the history of the divided kingdom, necessarily shift back and forth between the story of Israel and that of Judah. The four lessons preceding this have been on the northern kingdom, Israel; now we shall have four lessons on the southern kingdom, Judah. The history of Judah comes out most clearly by taking up the stories of some of its good kings, and the first of these, Asa, appears in 1 Kings 15.

When Solomon's kingdom was divided, the southern part, Judah, remained faithful to Solomon's line and continued the worship in the temple at Jerusalem, while the northern part, Israel, rejected Solomon's son, chose another king, and set up two golden calves, one in Bethel and one in Dan, as the object of national worship. The result was that while the kings of Israel were uniformly idolatrous and became worse and worse, Judah from time to time had good kings who instituted reforms and tried to strengthen worship of the Lord. In both kingdoms the people as a whole were easily led away into idolatry by the pagan nations who lived side by side with them.

We all know from experience what it is to have a "divided mind" - to want to do right and not be sure what is right, or to know what is right and not want to do it. It is this state which is pictured in the Bible by the divided kingdom, Judah in the south representing the heart and Israel in the north representing the mind. The kingdom united and at peace under Solomon is a picture of those times when we are at peace and happy because we both know what the Lord would have us do and want to do it.

After such a state it is our mind which rebels first. We ask ourselves in some new situation, "Is it really worthwhile to follow the Lord wholly?" Selfish considerations appeal strongly to our minds, although our "better nature" clings to the principles which we have been taught from the Word. The good kings in Judah represent such principles. In our story today Asa removes the idols which the people have set up. Once we have become established in the Christian life, we are frequently led to judge ourselves in this way, to see that some of the things which have appealed to us as more important than strict goodness are really unworthy of our effort, and to try to put them out of our calculations.

But often, like Asa, we do not do a thorough job. Verse 14 of our chapter says, "But the high places were not removed." The high places were the elevations which had been built up to hold idols. We may make ourselves see that certain particular things we have been "worshiping" are worthless, but we are not quite willing to give up the self-satisfaction and pride in our own judgment which has supported these pursuits. It is this pride which is represented by high places. It was because Asa stopped short of complete reform that he was moved later to seek the help of the king of Syria instead of trusting in the Lord, and that he gave up the treasures of the temple to gain this help. And finally we read that "in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet." When we cling to our pride in our own wisdom, we eventually slip back into the ways of the world instead of walking firmly in the paths of the Lord.

