
=== Senior

The best lesson for the Seniors is that of the subtle way in which the will to do right can be undermined by listening to worldly reasoning. They will be facing this temptation constantly from now on and need to be armed against it. Remind them of Elijah's words: "if the Lord be God, follow him: but if Baal, then follow him." The story of Asa is a good illustration of the importance of this choice. The Lord says: "Ye cannot serve God and mammon."

We have seen that the divided kingdom pictures the state of our lives when our desires (Judah) and our thinking (Israel) do not work in harmony. When we have once known the peace and happiness of the state represented by Solomon's kingdom, our hearts cling to the religion which has meant so much to us. We have our selfish and rebellious times — there were evil kings in Judah as well as in Israel. But frequently we examine our lives and try to correct them because we really mean to be good.

The reign of Asa, the third king of Judah, represents one of these times of self-examination. Asa was the great—grandson of Solomon. All the kings of Judah were of David's line. At heart we recognize the Lord's truth as our ruler. Our capital is at Jerusalem and we continue to worship in the temple on Sunday — or at least at Easter and Christmas. The people of Judah continued to go up to Jerusalem for the great feasts. But outside of Jerusalem — that is, in our everyday life in the world — we fall into the habit of doing as "everybody else" does. We set up idols in our high places. The high places represent our self-esteem and self-confidence. The idols are the objectives which worldly people accept as the desirable things of life: money, power, position, pleasure, skills of various kinds. Asa destroyed these idols. It is not hard from time to time to recognize that we have been putting too much time and energy into our sports and recreations, or worrying too much about money, or injuring our health by unnecessary overwork. "But the high places were not removed." We do not give up our self-esteem. In fact, we are rather apt to be proud of ourselves for showing such good sense. And when the high places are left, it is easy to put new idols there. Asa's son was a good king, but his grandson was evil and the land slipped back into idolatry.

During Asa's reign it is recorded that Israel threatened Judah by building a city near Jerusalem to keep people from going out or coming in. So the worldly part of our mind tries to build up arguments to "shut up" our good intentions. In this crisis Asa sought help of the king of Syria and paid him with treasures from the temple and from his own house. People do this when, feeling their beliefs threatened, they try to support them by finding "natural" explanations for the miracles, for example, and "common—sense" reasons for supporting the church and living the Christian life. The treasures they give up are the silver of belief in the Word because it is the Word of God coming to us from the Lord Himself, and the gold of serving the Lord and the neighbor from love. Syria represents the reasoning faculty as applied to external knowledges of good and truth. This faculty may be a friend or an enemy, depending on how it is used. At this point in the story Syria appears as a friend, but since the motive of the service is gain and not true friendship, Asa is really weakened by the alliance and Syria is strengthened and put in a position to become a more dangerous enemy. We all know how easily our own arguments can sometimes be turned against us.

In his old age Asa was "diseased in his feet." When we begin to compromise with worldly reasoning and to look to it for support, and give up our full trust in the Lord and the Word, our daily conduct eventually shows the effect of our weakness. We no longer walk easily and confidently in the Lord's way. We wobble. We yield here and there to worldly ways, not only in our thinking but in our acts. Throughout the Bible walking is a symbol of daily conduct, and we remember that the Lord tells us that the way to destruction is broad but the way to life is narrow and straight. We should remember this when people who are trying to get us to go back on our principles urge us to be "broad—minded."

