
=== Adult

Begin by reading the first verse of chapter 5 and commenting on its meaning. Then suggest that the sermon presents us with a real challenge and take up as many of its statements as you have time for.

Although the sermon on the mount is shorter in actual reading time than most modern sermons, it is so packed with lessons both natural and spiritual that it affords material for many sermons. To the people who listened to it, its teaching was absolutely new; even those of them who knew something of the Scriptures had lost the perception that they taught such things as these. It is a curious fact that although centuries have passed since this sermon was given and although men have read and studied it throughout those centuries, its lessons still seem new when we examine them honestly in comparison with our current thought and practice. For example, most of us doubtless know the Blessings; we acknowledge them as the Lord's rules of life and repeat them often. But have they ever become accepted principles in our own lives? Do we really believe that the humble—minded, the mourning, the meek, the persecuted are the happy people? Yet the Lord tells us that this is true. It is so opposite to the commonly accepted methods of seeking happiness that it is startling even after centuries of familiarity with the words.

The same is true of every lesson in the sermon on the mount: each one is diametrically opposed to what we tend naturally to believe and to practice. Perhaps nothing shows us so clearly as this how perverted our natural heredity is. This is what the first verse of the fifth chapter tells us: the Lord, "seeing the multitudes," went up into a mountain and taught them. The Lord saw the multitudes not as we see them but as they were in their hearts and minds. He saw their evils and their ignorance which were leading them to destruction. He saw their dire need of knowledge of the true way of life and of divine help in leading it. He went up into a mountain as a symbol of the fact that their thoughts must be lifted above the level on which they were accustomed to think. Then He proceeded to give them definite practical instruction as to how they must change their lives, how they must learn to act, to think, and to feel if they wished to be really happy or "blessed." He did not hesitate to be specific, to be dogmatic. He did not quibble or compromise or suggest. He told them plainly what was so.

And we read that the people were "astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as one having authority." We are all among the multitude to whom the Lord preached the sermon on the mount. We need to follow Him up into the mountain of spiritual thinking and to learn the way of life from the only one having authority. It may seem to us that self-seeking, self-confidence, force, ruthlessness will bring success in life, but it is not so; they will bring unrest, confusion, pain, disappointment, destruction. The Lord Himself tells us so. True and lasting happiness comes only to those who are humble, pure, peace—loving, and steadfast in righteousness.

Let us see if we can list some of the practical lessons in the sermon:

Knowledge of the truth is useless unless we live according to it. It is like salt which has lost its savor or like a light which is hidden.

The commandments are eternally true and necessary. No changing conditions, no special circumstances make it right to break them. The Lord Himself was not superior to them: He fulfilled them in every detail.

It is not enough to keep the letter of the law: we must keep its spirit in our hearts. Hatred is the real sin — murder is only one of its effects.

Love which goes out only to those who return it is self-love. The test of true love is the ability to will and to do good to those who do evil to us.

The Lord should be our ideal of perfection, and we should not take any less perfect life as our pattern.

If we do good for the sake of being praised or admired or rewarded, we should not expect a spiritual reward too; such good does not benefit our souls.

We should not be disturbed if we do not have worldly success; our concern should be to make ourselves more and more what the Lord wishes us to be.

We should not think that we can compromise with evil. We cannot love the Lord and self at the same time.

We should not worry about the future; our business is to do right in the present and trust our future to the Lord.

We should not be critical of other people, but we should be critical of ourselves.

We should try persistently to find out the Lord's will and do it, recognizing that the easy way is not necessarily the right way. There are many wrong ways of doing anything; we should seek the right way.

In thus trying to summarize the lessons taught in the three chapters, we learn to appreciate more than ever the power of the letter of the Word. For there is no substitute for the actual words of the text, no simpler or more striking way of expressing the thought. We need to read and reread the sermon itself.

The closing parable of the sermon is familiar to us all. The rock is the same rock upon which the Lord told Peter He would found His church, the "cornerstone which the builders rejected," the truth that the Lord Jesus Christ is "God with us." This belief alone gives His words compelling authority in our lives. Our house is our character. We build our house on rock when we form our character according to the Lord's teachings, rejecting our own ideas when they differ from His. Sand is pulverized rock, truth broken up because it has no unifying element to keep it together. We build our house on the sand when we form our character according to the ideas of men, ever-shifting, multitudinous like the sand, giving no promise of permanence or security. The storm beat upon both houses alike. Trials and temptations come to the believer and to the unbeliever. These are the rain and floods and winds which beat upon the two houses. Great worldly prosperity is nowhere promised to the good. But those whose lives are based upon belief in the Lord will weather the storm, while those who rely only on themselves or on other human beings are crushed. Take bereavement as an example. If we believe in the Lord, we know that there is a spiritual world to which our loved ones have immediately gone, the world for which we are all created and where alone we can be safe and happy forever; we know that the Lord loves each one of us and guides all things for our highest good, so that however hard the loss may be for us, it is only temporary and it is somehow necessary; we know that we still have uses to perform in this world or we should not be left here. So, in spite of our natural sorrow, we can go on with our life here cheerfully and hopefully. But the man who does not believe in the Lord has no assurance of any other life than this. What he loses out of this world seems to him gone forever. He sees no use, no wisdom in his bereavement; he wastes his energies bemoaning his loss; his character, having no solid foundation, is further undermined. "And it fell: and great was the fall of it."

