
=== Intermediate

The emphasis should be on the necessity of looking to the Lord for guidance instead of to self. The verses listed may be studied with this thought in mind, ending with the parable and the thought that the Lord is the only one who can speak "with authority."

---
A mountain represents a high plane of thought and feeling, near to the Lord, and Galilee represents our everyday life in the world. If we are to see our life in its true proportions, we must lift our minds above the level of worldly efforts and ambitions. Unless we can do this we cannot understand the Lord's teaching in this sermon on the mount.

The sermon begins with the statement of the qualities of life which lead to happiness. Blessed, as we may remember from our lesson on the first Psalm, means "happy." These are not the qualities which most people think will bring happiness. We are likely to think that we would be happy if we had physical beauty, unusual strength, self-confidence, business ability, money, or genius of some kind. Such things seem to us the best things to be born with and to strive for. These may indeed bring what the world calls success, but we find that the people who have them are by no means always happy. In the Blessings the Lord gives us the only sure rules for happiness. Read verse 17. The Blessings fulfill the commandments; the qualities they describe are the result of keeping the commandments because we wish to serve the Lord. Isaiah says: "Cease to do evil; learn to do well."

All the other teachings of the sermon are practical examples illustrating the working out in daily life of the qualities described in the Blessings. Read the rest of the sermon, noting how the Lord continually points out the need of making the inner life right. The sermon must be studied a little at a time because there is so much in it. But we need to remember that there is one especially well-known passage in each of the three chapters: the Blessings in chapter 5, the Lord's Prayer in chapter 6, and the Golden Rule in chapter 7. Almost every verse in the whole sermon is probably familiar to us because we have heard it quoted or used as a sermon text. Each teaching in the sermon challenges our thought and leads us to examine ourselves. Sometimes we, like the people who heard the sermon, are astonished at the Lord's teaching. We say immediately, for example, "how can the 'poor in spirit' be happy?" This is because we identify "poor in spirit" with "poor—spirited" or cowardly. This is not what the Lord means. The poor in spirit are simply those who do not think too much of themselves and so are willing to look to the Lord for guidance, the people who realize how weak they really are and how much they need the Lord's help. The same is meant by "the poor" all through the Word. In the same way, "they that mourn" are those who truly regret their own evils and are trying to improve, and the "meek" are those who would rather be injured themselves than be the cause of injury to others. We might go through the whole sermon in this way, trying to see what the Lord means instead of putting our own ideas into His words.

The parable of the house on the rock and the house on the sand is a fitting close to the sermon. The house is our character. The rock is the Lord's truth. The sand is the opinions of men. The rain and floods and wind are the temptations and trials which come in the life of everyone, good and bad alike. If we build our character on belief in the Lord and His Word, trying always to feel as He tells us to feel, think as He tells us to think, and act as He tells us to act, we shall be able to meet trial and temptation, bereavement and disappointment with unshaken trust, knowing that whatever the Lord permits to come to us He permits for our eternal good, and we shall be happy all along the way because the Lord will be dwelling in our house, and His unselfish love, which is happiness, will be in our hearts. Try always to remember that happiness is a quality of feeling, and that it comes from within, never from outside.

The Lord could speak as "one having authority" because He had the authority. He was God. He knew.

