
=== Notes for Parents

We are told in Matthew 4:23 that the Lord in His ministry went about teaching, preaching, and healing; so no doubt He preached many sermons. We think of most of His discourses as teaching, and indeed our lesson for today says, "He opened his mouth and taught them, saying." But this lesson is always called "The Sermon on the Mount."

The mountain in Galilee pictures a spiritual outlook upon our life in the world. How different such an outlook is from our natural one is proved by the difference between our natural ideas of what is good for us and the teaching the Lord gives us in this sermon. The sermon begins with the Blessings, and we remember that blessed means "happy." Read through the Blessings and ask yourself if people in general would say that any of the conditions mentioned in them would be likely to make one happy. Yet this is the Lord speaking to us, and the Lord knows. Even the people who listened to the sermon from the Lord's own lips so many hundreds of years ago realized that He was telling them what was unquestionably the truth, as we learn in the last verse of chapter 7. Each of us should ask himself very seriously, "Is it the part of wisdom for me to go on looking at my life and those of others from the point of view of this world when the Lord Himself has told me plainly that an entirely different point of view is the right one and the only one which can lead to eternal happiness?"

In each of the three chapters of the sermon there is one very famous passage. In chapter 5 it is the Blessings. In chapter 6 it is the Lord's Prayer. In chapter 7 it is the Golden Rule. And in addition to these we have verse after verse of plain, practical instruction, covering all our common experiences and problems. We are told, for example, that it is useless to know what is right if we do not do it, that the ten commandments are the fundamental laws of a good life for all time regardless of changing conditions in the world, that a good external life is not enough — the heart must be right, that love which is given only to those who will return it is not true love at all but really self-love, that the ideal for which we should constantly strive must be nothing less than the perfect example given us in the Lord's life, that we should not expect a reward in heaven for good we do to be seen of men, that we should not be disturbed if we do not have worldly success and that we should not worry about our future in the world, that we should be critical of ourselves rather than of other people, that we should be sincere in following the Lord and not excuse ourselves when we do what we know is wrong.

A minister could find enough material for many sermons in every verse of this one sermon of the Lord. And its final parable sums up in a very vivid picture all that the Lord is trying to do for us in it — to show us the solid rock of divine truth on which we should build the house of our character, and to warn us and save us from the inevitable destruction that will come if we persist in building on the shifting sands of human opinion.

