
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The younger children will like to think of the Lord sitting on the mountain with the people gathered around Him. Be sure they understand that blessed means "happy," and that the Lord wants us to be happy and is telling us how in this sermon. After speaking of the sermon in general, read rapidly through your list of verses with just a word about each, and then discuss the parable at the end and its meaning.

---
When you go to church, the minister preaches a sermon, doesn't he? Often you cannot understand what he is saying because you are still a little child, but you will find that as you grow older, you will understand more and more. In his sermon the minister is trying to help people to understand what the Lord tells us in His Word.

When the Lord was on earth, He preached sermons, too. The longest of them that is written down for us in the Bible is called "The Sermon on the Mount."

How does the sermon on the mount begin?

What does blessed mean?

In the Blessings the Lord is telling us the things which can really make us happy.

The sermon on the mount is full of beautiful, wise teachings. It fills chapters 5, 6, and 7 of the Gospel of Matthew.

In chapter 6 we find the Lord's Prayer.

In chapter 7 we find the Golden Rule.

And the sermon on the mount ends with a wonderful parable.

A parable is a story with another meaning inside of it. Let us read this one. [Read Matthew 7:24-27.] I wonder if you can see what the inside meaning of this story is. You know that each one of us lives in a house, but we didn't build this house, and sometimes we move out of one house and into another. But each of us has another kind of house to live in that he does build himself and that he always stays in, although he makes changes in it from day to day. This house is called our character. You are always yourself, even though sometimes you like to play you are somebody else. The house of our character is built by what we feel and think and do from day to day. It is built on a firm rock if it is built on the truth as the Lord gives it to us in His Word. But if we build our character on our own ideas of what is good for us or on the ideas of the other children we play with, our house is built on the sand, because these ideas are changing all the time and are often wrong. Now do you remember our lesson about temptations? The storms that beat against the house of our character are our temptations. Can you see what the parable teaches?

When the Lord finished speaking, how did the people feel about what He said?

Why were they surprised?

The Lord spoke with authority because He was God, but most of the people did not know this.

