
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
After a general statement about the sermon as a whole and the best known passages in it, take up your list of verses, stopping on any passage which the class seems inclined to discuss. The important thing is to lead the young people to realize how much is in the sermon and to arouse in them a desire to study it for themselves.

---
The sermon on the mount occupies three chapters in the Gospel of Matthew. A much shorter form is found in the sixth chapter of Luke. In Matthew it begins with the Blessings and contains also the Lord's Prayer and the Golden Rule. It is so packed with lessons that one might write endlessly upon it, and we can touch on only a few points. Each one of us must study the sermon all his life, and will always find in it new food for thought.

"And seeing the multitudes He went up into a mountain." The Lord saw more than the bodies of the throng of people. He saw their souls and their spiritual weaknesses and needs. So He took them up with Him onto a mountain. Going up on a mountain pictures lifting our thoughts above the plane of worldly ideas to a spiritual level. First the Lord gave the rules for happiness, the qualities which must be cultivated if we are to know "that peace which the world cannot give." No wonder the people were astonished! These were certainly not the qualities which the people themselves would have named as the essentials of happiness, nor those most of us today would name. In fact, we naturally think of many of them as qualities which are connected with unhappiness. But the people who went up to the mountain with the Lord were willing to be taught. He called them "the salt of the earth." Salt, whose chemical property is to combine different elements, represents the desire to unite truth and good in life. These people wanted to be good, but they had lost the way of life and so were not walking in the way which would lead them to heaven. The salt had "lost its savor."

So Jesus pointed them steadily toward God as the only source of truth and goodness. He told them that the commandments must be kept literally, that not one jot or tittle of the Law could fail — and this is equally true today — but He also showed them that it is not enough merely to keep the Law outwardly.

Then He rehearsed some of the commandments as they were interpreted and twisted by the scribes and Pharisees, and in each case He added the new teaching that the spirit or motive must be made pure. He sought to change people's hearts from self-seeking, covetousness, revenge, lust, and hatred to gentleness, mercy, forgiveness, purity, and humility. Only in this way could the virtues named in the Beatitudes be developed.

The last verse of chapter 5 is often questioned. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." Can any finite person be perfect? Does the Lord expect it of us? The Word itself gives the answer: "He knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust." But He sets before us an ideal which is the only adequate ideal to strive for. The moment we say to ourselves, "I can't be perfect; so it is of no use to try," or fall into the habit of excusing our known faults by saying, "Well, nobody is perfect," we stop progressing spiritually. If our goal were an attainable ideal, we might attain it and have nothing left to work for or to look forward to. But if we take the perfect divine life as our pattern, we may progress to eternity. The Lord is the only one who can speak with authority, whose teaching is unalterably true. It is He and not our neighbors to whom we should look for guidance.

The closing parable of the house on the rock and the house on the sand sums up the whole teaching of the sermon in a very vivid picture. The house stands for our character. The rock on which it should be built is the Lord's truth as He gives it to us in His Word. The sand is the shifting and unstable opinions of men. The storms are our temptations and trials, which come to good and bad alike. We individually have to make the decision, but the Lord tells us what the wise decision is. As you go to college and out into the world, the opinions of men will often be presented to you in very forceful and persuasive terms. You may even be ridiculed for believing in the Lord instead of in "modern scholarship." But remember what the Psalmist says: "I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation."

