
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In the doctrinal points for this lesson attention is given to the celestial sense rather than to the spiritual, and none of this sense is given in the Younger Teen notes this time. Stress the point that true charity does not treat the good and the evil alike. It is suggested that the teacher bring it out in connection with the illustration of the spoiled child. The important lesson for the Younger Teens is in the inevitable results of disobedience.

---
We have learned that the three kings of Israel represent the rule of divine truth in our lives, and that they differ in character and accomplishment because our understanding of divine truth develops and deepens as we try to live according to it. Saul represents our first natural understanding of it, based on judgments formed from appearances. David represents a spiritual understanding, based on the recognition that appearances are deceiving and that there are spiritual principles which transcend natural ones. Both Saul and David spent most of their time fighting. The Lord says to us in Isaiah 1:16, "Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil." This is a summary of the work of Saul and David — the overcoming of the enemies of our souls — which must be accomplished first. Then Isaiah 1:17 continues, "Learn to do well." This is the work of Solomon.

Swedenborg tells us that Solomon represents "the Lord in relation to His celestial kingdom and His spiritual kingdom." The celestial principle is love; the spiritual principle is truth. So under Solomon we are obeying divine truth understood in a still deeper way because we have come to love the Lord and the neighbor. Perhaps we can understand this better if we think of a simple example. We know that divine truth is summed up in the ten commandments. Suppose then we take the commandment "Thou shalt not steal." We all at first have a natural desire to possess the good things which other people have. Even very little children are tempted to take things which do not belong to them. We begin to control this desire because we find that stealing gets us into trouble. Obedience from this motive is symbolized by Saul. Then we are taught the principle of love to the neighbor, which is a spiritual principle, and we see that it is right and control our impulse to steal not from fear of punishment but because we really see that stealing is wrong in the Lord's sight; this is symbolized by David. But if we continue in the process of regeneration, we come to the point where we no longer covet what belongs to our neighbor; we enjoy his pleasure in it and would give him more if we could. All temptation to steal is gone and we are at peace; this is symbolized by Solomon. The name Solomon means "peace."

In other lessons we have had the stories of Solomon's dream in which he asked the Lord for wisdom and was granted riches and glory also, of the visit of the queen of Sheba and the details of Solomon's glory, and of the building of the temple at Jerusalem. But now we come to the dark shadow which falls over the latter part of Solomon's reign, brought on by his own sin. For all his glory and wisdom, Solomon — like David — was a mere man with the same selfish inclinations that we all have, and with our common tendency to rely upon our general good character to excuse our sins.

In our chapter Solomon is not rebuked because he had seven hundred wives, for we remember that at that time polygamy was considered allowable. It was rather because he took wives from among the idolatrous nations in the Holy Land, against the Lord's express command. In the Bible women before they are married represent affections for truth (or falsity), and women after they are married represent affections for the good (or evil) which their husbands picture. Solomon early in his career married the daughter of Pharaoh king of Egypt, which pictures taking to himself the affection for the memory-knowledge of truth. This is right and necessary, for we must learn truth from the letter of the Word and from doctrine as a basis for a good life. And Solomon might without blame have taken other wives from nations which had not been forbidden — nations which have in general a good correspondence. But the nations in the Holy Land were enemies of Israel, and their women represent affections for falsity and evil.

Did you ever know a person who was so unwilling to criticize anyone that he excused all sorts of wrong things? Mothers sometimes do this with their children, and then we say the children are "spoiled." This is like Solomon's loving women from evil nations. When we let our love for someone blind us so that we do not recognize and try to correct wrong things, we are committing the sin of Solomon. The Lord had told the people plainly (Exodus 34:16; Deuteronomy 7:3-4) why they must not marry wives from these nations: it was because such wives would turn their hearts to the worship of their idols. And this happened even to Solomon, who had been greatly blessed by the Lord and should certainly have remained faithful to Him. Whenever we admit into our minds the thought that any commandment of the Lord may be broken without resulting harm, we are opening our minds to the entrance of all sorts of falsity and are led further and further away from the heavenly life. The "kingdom" is taken from us.

We shall study the actual division of the kingdom later, but we should note here that the seeds of this division were sown by Solomon's sin. As we have said before, no great change really takes place suddenly. We may seem to be getting along all right in spite of our sins — Solomon was allowed to keep his throne until he died - but the consequences begin piling up. Solomon was told that his son would be able to hold only a part of the territory over which he had reigned, and he saw his enemies beginning to gain power. He also learned that Jeroboam, one of his own favored servants, had been promised by the Lord that he should rule over ten* of the tribes. There was nothing Solomon could do to prevent these consequences.
[*See Bruce, The First Three Kings of Israel, pp. 549 ff. See also The Sower, Vol. 2, p. 331.]
[Note: There is a good bit of inconsistency in the letter of the Word in regard to the total number of tribes: there are either twelve, or thirteen, if you count Ephraim, Manasseh and Levi. It is true, however, that whenever the tribes are listed by name, they will invariably add up to twelve; but some of the names will vary from list to list. In the dividing of the kingdom there is some obscurity about where to place both Benjamin and Simeon. Thus in 1 Kings 11:31-32 one might conclude there were only eleven tribes. -Editor]

