
=== Junior

A good lesson for the Juniors is in the contrast between Solomon's wisdom and glory and the sins of his later years. We had the same general lesson with David. We must never rely on a period of good behavior to excuse later sins.

The name Solomon means "peace." Because David had conquered all the enemies of Israel, Solomon's reign was a peaceful one. Not long after David died and Solomon came to the throne, Solomon had a dream one night in which the Lord said to him, "Ask what I shall give thee." Solomon did not ask for riches or glory but for wisdom to rule his people well. And the Lord was pleased and promised Solomon the wisdom he had asked for and also the riches and glory he had not asked for. Solomon became so wise that kings and queens came from other countries to ask him questions, and he did have great riches and many beautiful possessions. In 1 Kings 10:22-23 we even read that "the king had at sea a navy of Tarshish with the navy of Hiram: once in three years came the navy of Tarshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks. So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom." Solomon was also allowed, you remember, to build a beautiful temple in Jerusalem to house the ark.

You know that sometimes you have a "good" day. You are happy, you are feeling helpful, and you do what your parents and teacher want you to do without having to be nagged or even reminded. Then along toward the end of the day you have a chance to do something that you know you ought not to do, but it looks like it would be a lot of fun and you think, "I've been so good all day, I ought to be allowed to have some fun." But when your mother finds out, what she says is, "You've been so good all day; why did you have to spoil it?" Solomon was just a man after all.

Who was Solomon's wife?

What bad thing did he now do?

Why was it bad?

When he was old, what did his wives lead him to do?

What did the Lord tell him would happen?

When was this to happen?

At that time people did not consider it wrong to have more than one wife, but the Lord had commanded them strictly not to take any wives from among the idolatrous nations who were their enemies in the Holy Land. Solomon disobeyed this command, and the very thing happened which the Lord knew would happen. Solomon was led away by his wives into the worship of their idols. Then enemies began to rise up again and threaten the peace of his kingdom, and finally one of his own servants turned against him. Who was this servant?

What position had Solomon given him?

What prophet did Jeroboam meet?

What did Ahijah do?

When was the same kind of sign given before?

What did Ahijah tell Jeroboam?

What did Solomon try to do?

Where did Jeroboam take refuge?

How long was Solomon's reign?

