
=== Notes for Parents

Our chapter for today again teaches that no one in this world becomes so good and so wise that he is beyond temptation and the possibility of falling into sin. This life is given us that we may of our own free will choose the heavenly life and progress in it as far as we are willing to progress, and we do this by recognizing the selfish tendencies which are ours by nature and overcoming them one by one with the Lord's help. If we are regenerating, the older we grow the deeper the evils we are likely to see in ourselves. This sometimes troubles and discourages us, but actually it is a sign of progress.

Solomon succumbed to his temptation instead of resisting it.

He had been richly blessed. He was the second son of David and Bathsheba and was chosen by his father — under inspiration from the Lord — and crowned at his father's command even before David died. He did not have to fight for his throne, [except against his brothers. -Editor] and his enemies had all been conquered for him, so that his reign was one of peace and increasing glory. The very name Solomon means "peace." When he first came to the throne, he was young and felt very humble and weak, and he asked the Lord to give him wisdom to rule his people well. In this humble state he could and did receive wisdom — wisdom never comes from ourselves. And the Lord also gave him great riches, and the right to build the temple in Jerusalem.

But Solomon, like David, eventually came to feel that he was above the law instead of subject to it. This is the great temptation which inevitably comes with success and prosperity. In our own day and age we do not have to look far to find examples of it, but we are likely to think of examples of the more obvious kind. Our real concern is with the more subtle form of it to which we may all be subject no matter how poor our outward circumstances are. Theoretically we recognize that the highest goal we may strive for is a heavenly character. This has nothing to do with material wealth or poverty: anyone may attain it if he will. And the mark of this character is a love to the Lord and the neighbor, the Lord's own spirit, in the heart. If we have this, we have the wisdom and the glory of Solomon. How can we be tempted then? Just as Solomon was — by forgetting that everything in the world is not fit to be loved, that we must still study and obey the letter of the Word, and that we must not let our love blind us to evil and falsity. If we yield, as Solomon did, to this temptation, the "kingdom" can still be taken from us.

