
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Older Teens are old enough to see how this story can relate to the Lord's mercy and at the same time have an application to temptation in our own lives. We cannot too constantly stress with the young people the need of perpetual watchfulness and the fact that we never reach a state in which we can safely trust in self. This story is particularly apt for this purpose.

---
If you ask the "man on the street" what he knows about Solomon in the Bible, the chances are that his first and perhaps his only answer will be, "Well, he had a lot of wives, didn't he?" Shakespeare wrote, "The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones." Solomon was the greatest of the kings of Israel. We are told in 1 Kings 10:23 that "he exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom." He built the temple at Jerusalem. Yet what the average person remembers is the thing which caused the downfall of his kingdom.

We have had the story of David's sin and also the story of Saul's disobedience. The pattern is the same: a period of success led each of the three to set himself up in his own mind as superior to the commandment of the Lord. The lesson in the letter is obvious: Breaking the commandments never leads to good, and no finite human being ever becomes so perfect or so wise that he can safely cease to "search the scriptures."

But there are deeper aspects of our story for today which the New Churchman may study. The quotation at the end of this lesson is chosen to give you an idea of the inmost or celestial sense of this part of Solomon's life, the sense which relates to the Lord. "The Lord is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works." The writings tell us many times that not only does the Lord save all those Gentiles who preserve charity in their hearts in spite of the falsities in which they are brought up, but that His love is constantly reaching out to those in evil, trying by every possible means to lead them to see and acknowledge their evils and to turn from them. This is why so much of the Word is written in terms of vengeance and punishment, as well as why so many improper practices, like polygamy, were permitted to continue. They not only were representative of the states of the people of that time, but they kept them from falling into still deeper evils, and thus are actually expressions of the Lord's love for all mankind.

But in our Sunday school lessons our particular concern is with the spiritual sense of the Word, that sense which relates to the spiritual states of the individual man and woman. What does the story of Solomon mean for our personal lives? We have learned that a king represents truth (or falsity) ruling, and that the three great kings of Israel — Saul, David, and Solomon — represent divine truth ruling, understood in deeper and deeper ways as we advance in regeneration. Saul symbolizes a natural understanding of it and David a spiritual understanding. The task of both these kings was to seek out and overcome the enemies of Israel. Our first need after the outer life has been set in order — the period of reformation, pictured by the wilderness journey — is to wage war against evils and falsities in our own hearts and minds and overcome them with the Lord's help. This is not accomplished all at once. The books of Joshua and Judges describe our first efforts, with their successes and failures, and the two books of Samuel our later, better—organized attack which results in victory. Throughout this long struggle, although we have moments of victory with its satisfactions, we are never really at peace.

Finally, however, the enemies are conquered and Solomon comes to the throne. The name Solomon means "peace." We have come into a state in which we accept the rule of divine truth not from fear of the consequences of disobedience nor even because we see that the truth is from the Lord and therefore is to be obeyed, but from love, love to the Lord and the neighbor in the heart. We no longer want to do wrong things. Therefore we have no battles to fight: we are at peace. It is in the period of Solomon that the temple is built silently, "of stone made ready before it was brought thither: so that there was neither hammer nor ax nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building." Perhaps you know some old person who has apparently reached this Solomon state. Everyone loves and admires him. All kinds of people go to him for advice, as the queen of Sheba and others went to Solomon. We say he has a beautiful character. There is no evidence of weakness, temptation, or struggle in his life. Granted that not many reach such a state in this life, we know that a few do. Is it true that such a man has passed beyond the possibility of temptation?

Our chapter for today answers this question. It begins with the word "But" [KJV]. There is a temptation, and a very deep one, which accompanies this state. Solomon succumbed to it. It is the temptation to see nothing but good in everyone, to close one's eyes to evil and falsity and forget that it is never safe to ignore them. This leads the person gradually to condone evil and to accept false ideas without correcting them even in his own mind. Solomon's wives "turned away his heart after other gods." The acceptance of a false idea by a person known to be unusually good gives that falsity tremendous support and leads many astray. And there is a way in which each one of us is subject to this temptation, even though in general we may be far from the Solomon stage of regeneration. When we love and admire someone very much, we may be tempted to excuse and justify his shortcomings, and to copy his faults as well as his virtues. At such times we need to remind ourselves of Solomon's sin and its consequences, and to say to ourselves: "There is none good but one, that is, God. ... if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments."

