
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
After reviewing the last lesson, do map work with the children, having them locate Galilee, Samaria, Judea, Capernaum, and Cana. Then with the map in front of them, review the Lord's early life before you go on to the lesson for today.

---
Each year we should have the facts of the Lord's early life clearly in mind as a preparation for studying His ministry in the world. A Bible map will show you that in the Lord's time the Holy Land had come to be divided into three provinces. Your teacher will help you to find the names of these provinces and also to locate the names of the cities and of the two lakes. You have studied the early life of the Lord in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke. Let us see if you remember the main facts.

Where was the Lord born?

Who was His mother?

Why had Mary and Joseph gone to Bethlehem?

Where was their home?

What danger threatened the Lord after He was born?

Where was He taken until Herod died?

Where did the Lord grow up?

For what feast was He brought to Jerusalem when He was twelve?

What did He do in the temple at that time?

Who had been sent to prepare the people to receive the Lord?

How old was the Lord when He began His ministry?

Why did He first come to John the Baptist?

Where did He spend forty days after His baptism?

What happened to Him there?

Our lesson for today is about the first miracle the Lord performed after He began His ministry. A miracle is a wonderful thing which the Lord does to teach us a spiritual lesson. We have read of several miracles in our study of the Old Testament, such as the parting of the waters of the Red Sea and of the Jordan River, the giving of the manna during the wilderness journey, the bringing of water out of the rock at Horeb, and the healing of Naaman the Syrian. During His life on earth the Lord performed many miracles, and He gave His disciples power to perform them in His name. Some people think that the Lord's followers ought to have this power today, and some individuals even claim that they do have it. So we should know just why the Lord and His immediate followers performed miracles and why it is not orderly for them to be performed today.

We learned last week that when the Lord came into the world only a few simple good people were willing to receive Him. These people had been under the control of the scribes and Pharisees who did not want the Lord's ministry to prosper — and when the scribes and Pharisees argued against belief in Him, it was hard for the simple people to stand firm. The Lord's miracles gave them something they could point to as proof that He was God, and the same power, which the disciples used in His name, convinced others who wanted to believe but who had not seen the Lord Himself. Today, however, we do not need this kind of proof to strengthen our faith. We can see with our minds that the Lord is God, and we have the testimony of the effect of His coming upon the world and upon men to point to as proof. We know that whenever sickness or affliction comes to us, it is contrary to God's will, but He tolerates it so as not to interfere with our freedom. At the same time He makes such states opportunities for us to gain spiritual strength, if we will. And we know that it is the Lord who heals us or brings us through our affliction when He sees that it is best for us. None of us likes to be sick, but we know that sickness has taught us many lessons.

There is another reason why the Lord performed miracles when He was on earth. His miracles all pictured things He could do for men's souls, and they were recorded in the Gospels to teach us spiritual lessons. For instance, we all can recognize that blindness pictures the inability to see what is true — we say people are "blind" in this way and that they "close their eyes" to things that are perfectly evident, because they don't want to "see" them. So the opening of the eyes of the blind by the Lord teaches us that if we believe in Him, He will make it possible for us to see what is true. Every miracle in the Word has a meaning which you will study when you are older.

Where was the Lord's first miracle performed?

Where was Cana?

Who went to Cana with the Lord?

Why did they go there?

What happened which led Mary to ask the Lord's help?

How many waterpots did the people have?

What did the Lord tell the servants to do?

What happened when the water was poured out?

What did the governor of the feast say about this wine?

Would you like to know a little of what this miracle means? You remember that water is a symbol of truth, and we all learn truth from the Word. But sometimes we just take it into our minds — as the servants filled the waterpots — and it doesn't seem to mean much in our lives. Then the Lord says to us, "Draw out now," and we try to draw out the truth we have learned and apply it to our lives and teach it to others, and suddenly it becomes "wine" - which is truth for our souls.

