
=== Notes for Parents

As we all know, the Lord was born in Bethlehem, but the home of Mary and Joseph was really in Nazareth, and after the time spent in Egypt — where they were sent to save the infant Jesus from the jealous hatred of king Herod — they returned to Nazareth. There the Lord grew up and remained until He was about thirty years old. Then He came to the Jordan for baptism by John the Baptist and afterwards spent forty days in the wilderness tempted of the devil. During the remaining three years of His earthly life, His active ministry, He made His home at Capernaum on the shore of the Sea of Galilee.

We learn these facts about the Lord's early life principally from the Gospels of Matthew and Luke. John gives us none of them. Some people have wasted a great deal of time trying to imagine what the Lord was doing in all those years, and stories with no truth in them have been written about them. The Gospels tell us all we need to know about the Lord's outward life in the world. We are not meant to dwell too much on it. What we do need to remember is that during those thirty years the Lord was carrying on the great purpose for which He came into the world, meeting day by day all the temptations which men have — which He could not have felt if He had not taken on our selfish humanity through Mary — overcoming them one by one, and so little by little putting off the finite humanity and bringing forth from within Himself a divine humanity to take its place.

That is why at the marriage feast at Cana in our lesson today, when Mary asked Him to exercise the power she knew He had, He said to her: "Woman, what have I to do with thee?" This is more literally translated, "Woman, what [belongs] to me and to thee?" It was not a rebuke to Mary and she did not receive it as one. It was said for us, so that we might understand that the Lord's power did not come from the human nature He had taken on but was in the divine humanity which was from the Father within Him.

This first miracle of the Lord demonstrated His power over nature. As we recently read, "The world was made by Him." The Lord's disciples were simple people. They wanted the truth He came to give and they believed in Him, but of themselves they would find it hard to hold their faith in the face of the arguments of the scribes and Pharisees to whom they had always looked up. The miracles helped to confirm their faith. Today we do not need miracles. We have the testimony of history to prove to our reason, if we choose to use it, that Jesus is God.

But the miracles in the Gospels have great meaning for us nevertheless. Each one teaches us something which the Lord can do for our souls. All of us who want the Lord to come into our lives have "six waterpots of stone," that is, knowledge of the general precepts of the Word waiting to be filled with meaning by study and meditation. To learn more and to think more is the first requirement. Then the Lord says to us, "Draw out now." Use your knowledge of the truth in meeting your daily problems and try to give it to others in need. Try it. It was in the drawing out that the water was turned to wine — the best wine. It is only as we use the truth that it is transformed in our minds and brings us joy and satisfaction.

