
=== Primary

The review of the Lord's life should be very simple and brief, covering mainly the Christmas story, the flight into Egypt, the return to Nazareth, and the baptism by John. The first miracle itself is simple and interesting. The children should be told that since the Lord made everything and keeps everything in existence all the time, He of course has control over everything. Be sure they know the details of the miracle.

---
Do you remember the name of the place where the Lord was born? The Lord did not grow up in Bethlehem. King Herod wanted to kill the Lord because it had been prophesied that He was to be king of the Jews. So Joseph was told in a dream to take Mary and Jesus down into Egypt for a time, where He would be safe. After Herod died, they came back, but they did not go to Bethlehem because that was not their home. They went back to Nazareth, which was the home of Mary and Joseph. Nazareth was in the province of Galilee, farther north in the land than Judea, where Bethlehem and Jerusalem were. The Lord grew up in Nazareth. When He was twelve years old, He came to Jerusalem for His first Passover feast.

When He was about thirty, He came to John the Baptist to be baptized in Jordan.

What sign was given John at this time?

After His baptism the Lord spent forty days in the wilderness alone struggling with temptations.

Then He was ready for His active ministry.

John and all his disciples had been looking forward eagerly to the Lord's coming, and they received Him with joy. But the religious leaders, just like Herod, did not want the Lord to come, and they tried hard to make the people believe that Jesus was not really the promised savior. Then the Lord began to perform miracles to help the simple good people to overcome the doubts which their leaders put in their minds.

The Lord performed miracles also to strengthen the faith of His disciples. What is a miracle?

Where was His first miracle performed?

Cana was a town seven miles north of Nazareth.

Why were the Lord and His disciples and Mary at Cana?

Why did Mary ask the Lord to help the people?

How many waterpots did they have?

How much did each of them hold? A firkin* is about eight gallons.

[*In KJV this translates the Greek metretes (measure) and refers to the Hebrew unit called a "bath," about 8-9 gallons. -Editor]

What did the Lord tell the servants to do?

What happened to the water as it was poured out?

