
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The principal lessons to be emphasized are the importance of recognizing the Lord as God, the need of always continuing our study of the Word and the writings, and the fact that only as we use what we learn in service to the Lord and the neighbor can the spiritual be developed in us.

---
The Gospels of Matthew and Luke give us all we know of the external facts of the Lord's life on earth up to the time when, at the age of about thirty, He began His public ministry. If you are not thoroughly familiar with these facts, you should read chapter 2 of Matthew and chapter 2 of Luke. John, as we said in the last lesson, gives us the inner rather than the outer story of the Advent. John also omits the account of the Lord's baptism and of the forty days in the wilderness which followed it. For these read Matthew 3 and 4:1-11.

The three temptations of the Lord in the wilderness are a symbolic summing up of temptations — on all three planes of life: will, thought, and act — which He met and overcame progressively throughout His life. The Old Testament in its inmost or celestial sense tells the story of these temptations. Through them the Lord little by little put off the finite humanity He had taken on through Mary and put forth in its place the divine humanity from within. This was the process of glorification. By the time when He came forth from Nazareth to make His home at Capernaum after His baptism, this process had reached the point at which He could say to Mary: "Woman, what have I to do with thee?" This was not a rebuke to Mary and she did not receive it as one. Swedenborg gives us a literal translation of the Greek words: "Woman, what belongs to me and to thee?" The question points out to us that we need to distinguish between the finite humanity which the Lord assumed and the divine humanity in which He exercises power. We must never think of the Lord merely as the best man who ever lived. We must recognize Him as God, as the Word made flesh. And here we may remember that the Lord answered each of the devil's temptations with a quotation from the Word.

John begins the account of the Lord's ministry with the miracle at Cana. This first miracle of the Lord is recorded only in the Gospel of John. Swedenborg tells us that the Lord performed miracles for two reasons: to strengthen the faith of those who wanted to believe in Him, and to teach us — through their record in the Word — what He wishes to do for our souls and the method of His operation there. As we have learned, the scribes and Pharisees were bitterly opposed to the Lord because He brushed away their convenient traditions and taught the people the Word in its purity. The Lord's disciples were simple people and had been under the direction of the scribes and Pharisees all their lives. They wanted to believe in the Lord, but it was hard for them to maintain their faith in the face of the arguments of their recognized leaders. The miracles confirmed and strengthened their faith. We do not need miracles now. The Lord wants us to choose Him freely and to confirm our faith by reason. For us the miracles of the Gospels are important for their spiritual meaning.

The setting of the miracle of our lesson today is very striking.

It was at Cana of Galilee. Galilee represents the plane of our outward life. The word Cana means "reedy." Grass and reeds are symbols of the most rudimentary knowledges of truth. Yet the occasion was a marriage feast and marriage represents the union of good and truth, and the Lord and His disciples and Mary were invited guests. And there was plenty of water, although the wine was "wanting." There are many people in the world today in this state, people who wish to live good lives, who want more truth for life than they possess, and who know that the truth is in the Word and seek the Lord and the church, yet who do not have enough knowledge and understanding of the truth to satisfy their spiritual thirst.

We all have "six waterpots of stone" — that is, general doctrines — vessels for receiving truth at all stages of our development. The first essential is that the servants — our faculties and capacities — fill these jars with water "to the brim," that is, that we make use of every opportunity to learn truths from the Word and the writings. Then we must "draw out" this water. Truth in the memory is pictured by the water standing in the jars. As we draw this truth out for use in our daily life and for the help and refreshment of our neighbor, it is turned to wine, "the best wine." Wine represents spiritual truth, truth which satisfies and refreshes the soul.

In the New Church we need to keep this miracle in mind. We cannot rest satisfied with having been brought up in the church and knowing something of its truths. We need constantly to add to our knowledge by our own study and effort, and we need to make these truths our own by living according to them and thinking of them in connection with every problem of our daily lives, and also by trying to present them to others who need them. The miracle will not fail. We shall grow in understanding and grace and find the wine better and better the longer we draw out.

