
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Older Children: Can you repeat the first verse of the Gospel of John?

Older Children: Why do we call the inspired Scripture the Word of God? it is God's Word to us

Older Children: Why does John call Jesus "the Word made flesh"? He is living truth

Older Children: What is meant by saying that "in him was life, and the life was the light of men"? His truth is alive, and enables us to live spiritually

Older Children: Why did the Lord have to come into the world? to save us from our sins

Younger Children: Who bore witness to His being the Messiah? John the Baptist

Younger Children: What sign was given to John the Baptist? dove

Older Children: What disciple first met the Lord? Andrew

Older Children: What other disciples are mentioned in the first chapter of John? Peter, Philip, Nathanael (Bartholomew)

Younger Children: Where was the Lord born? Bethlehem

Older Children: In what division of the Holy Land was Bethlehem? Judea

Younger Children: Where did the Lord grow up? Nazareth

Older Children: In what division of the land was Nazareth? Galilee

Older Children: What division lay between Judea and Galilee? Samaria

Older Children: Where did the Lord live during the three years of His ministry? Capernaum

Older Children: What is a miracle? a wonderful thing done by the Lord

Younger Children: Where was the Lord's first miracle performed? Cana

Younger Children: Why did He go to Cana? a wedding

Younger Children: What was lacking at the feast? wine

Younger Children: Who went to the Lord for help? Mary

Younger Children: What did the Lord first tell the servants to do? fill waterpots

Younger Children: What happened? water turned into wine

Younger Children: What did the governor of the feast say about this wine? it was best

Younger Teens: What does marriage represent? uniting goodness and truth in life

Younger Teens: What do (1) water, and (2) wine represent? (1) literal truth, (2) spiritual truth

Older Teens: Why did the Lord perform miracles? to strengthen the faith of His followers, and to symbolize the things He can do for our souls


