
=== Intermediate

The importance of our daily choices, especially our choices as to thought and feeling, should be emphasized, and the need of receiving and cultivating seeds of truth from the Word and of rooting out thorns. Point out that in the Word the sequence of events or of stories is never accidental.

---
Verse 34 of our chapter tells us that the Lord always taught in parables. A parable is a simple story easily understood and remembered. Like stored seed it can lie in the mind for a long time, and then when the right conditions are present, it can suddenly take root and develop. This is what the Word does in our minds. The longer we live and the deeper our experience, the more of it we understand and the more we can be helped by it.

The seven parables in our chapter form a series treating of the development of a heavenly character, for, as Luke 17:21 tells us, the kingdom of God is within us. We begin with the sowing of the seed, which is "the word of the kingdom." The Lord is the sower, and He sees to it that everyone born into the world receives some truth from the Word either directly or indirectly. Whether the seed bears fruit or not depends on the degree to which we open our minds to it, cherish it, and give it room to grow. The disciples, who sought enlightenment from the Lord, could be given a deeper understanding of the parable. The multitude merely heard the story. Each one of us decides whether he will be a disciple or not.

The parable of the tares shows us why we cannot overcome all our evils at once. It takes time and experience for us to form clear judgments as to what is good and what is bad even in our own character.

The parable of the mustard seed teaches us the importance of studying the Word in all its detail, for there is no truth so small that it may not sometime become of great importance to us.

The parable of the leaven shows us the need of considering our problems long enough and deeply enough to be sure that selfishness is ruled out of our judgment of what we ought to do.

The next two parables point out the fact that a heavenly character is worth any price we have to pay for it. The pearl is a picture of a true understanding of the Lord achieved by a life according to His teachings.

Finally the parable of the net treats of the judgment in the other life, when our motives will be exposed and the good and bad finally separated. In this connection read Revelation 21:27.

From this whole series we learn that heaven is not something meted out arbitrarily by the Lord after we die, but a slow growth in our hearts and minds throughout this life. It must be founded on truth from the Word, which must be received voluntarily and can grow only as falsity and evil are put away. And it must become the thing we desire above all others. The Lord does not force us to learn of Him, to obey Him, or to love Him. We choose freely whether we will serve Him or not.

