
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class the parables should be treated as a series. Take up in some detail the parable of the sower and the parable of the tares and the wheat, and then do as much with the others as you have time for.

---
What is a parable?

How many parables are there in our chapter for today?

What is the first one called?

Have you heard it before?

Is it easy to remember?

That was one reason why the Lord spoke in parables. People liked to hear these little stories, and could remember them. Then, when they were ready to understand the deeper meaning of them, it was easy to give it. We see how the closer disciples of the Lord were looking for the deeper meaning and ready to hear it. But the "multitude" were not ready, and so all the Lord gave them was the story. What are all the parables in this chapter about?

We are likely to think of heaven just as a place where good people go when they die, but in the Gospel of Luke (17:21) the Lord tells us that it is within us. All these parables tell us something of how it is developed in us. First the seed must be sown. The sower in our first parable is the Lord, and the seed is "the word of the kingdom," truth from the Word of God. Everyone, in the course of his life, hears truths from the Word either directly or indirectly. What happens to this seed in his life depends first on his willingness to hear divine truth and secondly on whether or not he accepts and obeys it. And from the parable of the mustard seed we learn that every little seed of truth has within it the possibility of growing in our lives into a great tree or principle. It is truth from the Word received into our minds and planted in our daily life from which the kingdom of heaven develops within us. But there are many things which hinder.

Do we always immediately know that a thing is right or wrong?

Tares were a kind of false wheat. As they were growing, they looked like wheat, but their grain was poisonous. Sometimes we do things without knowing they are wrong. And often we accept things as true which are not true. Everything that is good and true comes to us from the Lord. Everything that is evil and false comes to us from the hells. It is only gradually that we learn to see the difference, just as tares in the field could not be recognized easily until after they were grown. But in the end, we must destroy the tares. You remember that the Lord said, "By their fruits ye shall know them." Whenever we come to see that some way of life that we have thought was good actually leads to trouble and unhappiness, we may know that it is a "tare" and that we must get rid of it.

Study the other parables in this chapter and see how much you can understand of their inner meaning. They all lead up to the parable of the pearl of great price. This pearl is true knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ as our one God, which we have made our own by living according to His teachings. To sell all that we have is to give up our own ideas and selfish desires in order to possess the heavenly character which is based on this knowledge. The last parable in the chapter teaches us very plainly that when we go into the other world at death, we shall be in heaven if we are found to be good and in hell if we are found to be evil. We cannot change our lives after we die.

