
=== Primary

The meaning of the sower, the seed, and the different kinds of ground can be understood at this age, and this is a good opportunity to tell the children that the whole Word is a parable. Touch on the other parables in the chapter as showing us how the good seed develops in our minds and some of the things that hinder its development.

Our story today is one of the parables which the Lord told the people. Do you remember what a parable is? It is a story with another meaning inside of it. Our chapter tells us that the Lord always spoke to the people in parables.

You know that when your mother tells you that you ought to do something or that something you are doing is wrong, sometimes you try hard not to listen because you don't want to hear and have to change your ways. But when she tells you or reads you a story, you like to listen because it is interesting to hear about other people and you don't think the story has anything to do with you and your behavior. Afterwards, however, you may get to thinking about the story and find that the little girl or boy in it is really very much like yourself and that what happened in the story might easily happen to you. And then you may decide all by yourself that you had better make some changes in your behavior.

Grown people are no different from you in this, and the Lord knew it. That is why He always spoke in parables. When you are older, you will find that the whole Word is a parable.

In our chapter for today there are some very well—known parables. The first is called the parable of the sower.

Can you tell the story?

The Lord told His disciples what the story meant.

The Sower is the Lord.

The seed is truth from the Word.

What are the different kinds of ground?

Then the Lord told them some parables about the kingdom of heaven.

You know that heaven is where good people go when they die. But the Lord said, "The kingdom of God is within you."

This means that if we are to go to heaven, we have to become heavenly people. The Lord came into the world to show us just how to become heavenly people. Do we become heavenly all at once?

No. We learn little by little what is right, and if we try to do it — to live according to the truth we learn from the Word — gradually a heavenly character grows in us.

All these parables about the kingdom of heaven help us to understand this.

