
=== Senior

Discussion in this class should center on the importance of our inner life of thought and feeling. The reason why the Word is written in parable is also an essential point of instruction at this age, as this knowledge will keep young people, when they go to college, from taking into their minds without question much well—meant but mistaken instruction in regard to the Bible.

---
Perhaps no chapter in the Scriptures is so full of avowed parables as this one. Yet we know that the whole of Scripture is a parable. Verse 34 tells us, "without a parable spake he not unto them." The reason for this is that the parable, a simple story of commonplace events, is easily heard and understood and stays in the mind. Those who are unwilling to learn of spiritual things see only the story, but those who are looking for a way of life can be shown its inner meaning.

We can see this in our own experience in reading the Bible.

From our childhood up the literal story becomes familiar to us and gradually, as our experience grows and our spiritual needs increase, its meaning appears. Sometimes a passage of the Scriptures which we have heard again and again without much thought "comes alive" suddenly in relation to some present problem or need.

Several things appear clearly from the wonderful series of parables in our chapter for today. First, heavenly life grows only from truths of the Word planted in the life. Second, this growth is not sudden or spectacular but little by little and almost imperceptible. Third, we may not be able at first to distinguish clearly between good and evil, truth and falsity, but in time we can recognize them by their fruits, separate them, and cast out the harmful. Finally, a heavenly character is the most precious of all possessions and worth any sacrifice, and it is the only thing which can insure our eternal happiness.

The last part of the chapter is particularly applicable to the state of the Christian world today. When the Lord went "into his own country," that is, into Nazareth, He could do no great works because the people there thought of Him as merely human. The trend in some parts of the Protestant world today seems to be away from a belief in the deity of Christ. By this unbelief people cut themselves off from the source of spiritual power. Men look to themselves for guidance instead of to the Lord. Belief in the Lord and belief in the Word are the foundations of the Christian Church and the foundations of a heavenly character in the individual. They are the "good ground" in which alone the seed of truth can take root and flourish. The Lord alone through His Word gives power to do good.

