
=== Notes for Parents

Swedenborg tells us that on the nineteenth day of June in the year 1770 the Lord sent His twelve apostles throughout the spiritual world to proclaim that "the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns," and that a new Church based on this fact was about to be established. This is why we think of the nineteenth of June as the birthday of the New Church and call it "New Church Day." For our New Church is based on the belief that the Lord Jesus Christ is the one only God of heaven and earth, not a mere man — even the best of men — who lived long ago, and not one of three persons in the Godhead, as most Christian churches teach. We believe that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit of whom we read in the Bible are the three attributes of the one God, divine love, divine wisdom, and divine proceeding or activity, like will, thought, and activity in man. The Lord Himself said to Philip (John 14:9) when Philip asked Him to show them the Father: "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father."

Many people today still believe that those who die will lie in their graves until some future day when a last judgment will take place and they will be raised up, and then the good will be given new bodies and will go on living on a new earth which the Lord will form. In the New Church we know that when we die, we merely go to sleep in this world and wake up in the spiritual world, the real and much more beautiful world which is about us now, although we do not see it because our physical eyes focus our sight upon the material world. We also believe that the Last Judgment took place just before the New Church was begun in heaven, and that the Second Coming of the Lord took place then in the opening of the spiritual meaning of the Word, the "power and great glory" within the "cloud" of the literal sense, so that now, as we study the Word, we can learn more and more of its meaning to eternity, and if we sincerely try to live according to its teaching, we need have no fear, for we shall reach heaven and live there forever in peace and happiness.

If, as parents, we live in this belief, thinking and speaking as well as acting from it day by day, our children will grow up with an entirely different attitude toward life and toward the meaning and importance of their daily choices from that which they will encounter about them in the world, and will be greatly helped to recognize temptation and say "no" to it, and to develop into good men and women and eventually into angels.

