
=== Notes for Parents

For our historical knowledge of the Lord's life on earth we should note that when He began His public ministry, He left Nazareth, where He had been brought up, and went to live in Capernaum on the shore of the Sea of Galilee.

We all recognize water as a symbol of truth and can easily understand that a sea is a picture of truth gathered together in one place — in our memory. There are two principal seas in the Holy Land which are mentioned often in the Bible story, the Sea of Galilee and the Dead Sea. As the river Jordan is a symbol of truth from the Lord flowing down into the minds of men — the word Jordan means "descender" — we may think of these two seas as knowledge of the Word of the Lord in the minds of men of two different levels of character. The Jordan empties into the Dead Sea. The Word in its letter is so written that even a completely depraved person can read it and see what its teaching is. But in his mind it is stagnant and produces no life. There are no fish in the Dead Sea. The Sea of Galilee, on the other hand, is full of fish. Fishing boats are always on its surface, and many of those who live on its shores make their living by fishing. In the mind of a man who has not destroyed his spiritual capacity, the Word is full of living truths waiting to be drawn out and put to use.

This is why the Lord lived at Capernaum during the three years of His ministry and why the first disciples He called were fishermen. Peter and Andrew, James and John are names familiar to all of us. Peter, James, and John were to become the Lord's constant companions, the ones who were permitted to see Him transfigured. They were not learned men nor important people in the eyes of the world. What did the Lord see in them? The simple story of our chapter answers this question. They recognized the Lord, and when He said, "Follow me," they were willing immediately to leave all their own concerns and interests and to obey Him. So they became His first disciples (or "learners") and later His apostles — those "sent out" to carry to the world the good news of salvation.

There are three steps here which we should recognize as necessary for all of us who call ourselves Christians. First we must recognize the Lord Jesus Christ as the Messiah, the "anointed one," God Himself come into the world. Then we must be ready to leave our concern with self and our worldly ambitions and follow the Lord by learning the truths He teaches us in the Word and obeying them. Finally we must be eager to do all we can to bring the Gospel, the "good news," to others by the character of our daily lives, by our conversation, and by supporting our church in its efforts to reach both those near at hand and the wider audience which we cannot reach as individuals.

We are all, if we mean to live good lives, fishermen by the Sea of Galilee. And to each one of us the Lord comes with His simple command, "Follow me."

