
=== Intermediate

Stress the importance of our daily choices and the proof which history gives us, the truth of Revelation 22:13-14 of our lesson for today. It is very necessary that children of this age be encouraged to think and act independently of what "everybody" thinks and does.

---
We are living in a new age. Our modern scientists often tell us this and young people are tempted to use it as an excuse for thinking that the ideas of right conduct which their parents and grandparents have are out of date. But the laws of God do not change. The commandments were known from the earliest times, and then thirty-five hundred years ago they were given from Mount Sinai in the ears of all the people by the voice of God and written on the tables of stone by the finger of God to prove that they are not man-made rules but the fundamental laws of God. And nearly two thousand years ago John was told in vision by the Lord Jesus Christ: "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city." This was said after the Lord had showed him the holy city descending to earth from heaven. John's final vision begins (Revelation 21:1): "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away." We are indeed living in a new age, but the laws of right feeling and thought and conduct are God's laws, the same for every age. Never forget this.

Day after day we are presented with choices to make. If we could not think and choose, we should be merely animals. Animals are governed by their instincts. They can never know the God who created them. Try to remember this, that whenever you choose to do as you please without thinking whether it is right or wrong, you are making an animal of yourself. Heavenly knowledge is eternal. It is much more important than earthly knowledge, which serves us only for a few short years. And each of us, by his choices day by day, is forming the character which will determine where he will live to eternity.

Swedenborg tells us that on June 19, 1770, the Lord sent the apostles throughout the spiritual world to proclaim that He alone reigned. The new earth and the new heaven are the new knowledge of heavenly and earthly life given us by the Lord in His Second Coming. This is why we call June 19th "New Church Day." May the new age mean for each of you a new heaven as well as a new earth.

