
=== Junior

We have given the Juniors no questions to answer this time. The teacher may ask such questions as he thinks the class should be able to answer, before proceeding with the assignment for the day.

---
In one of our lessons from the book of Revelation we learned about the messages given to the apostle John for the seven Christian churches which had been established in Asia Minor by the time John was an old man. We saw that they were all different, just as each one of us is different, and we learned something of what those messages mean for us as individuals.

But these seven churches were real churches, the beginning of the first Christian Church on earth, and it was true that already they were showing bad as well as good qualities. So the whole of John's vision applies to the first Christian Church and its future as well as to our individual lives. The first Christian Church declined, just as all the earlier Churches had declined because many continued to put the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the middle of their life instead of the tree of life, worshiping man instead of God. And John's vision showed that this would go on until men would think themselves so wise that the innocent good people who wanted to believe in God and serve Him could no longer answer their arguments. They needed more understanding of the Word, the "many things" which the Lord had told His disciples He still had to say to them (John 16:12). So the Lord had to make His promised Second Coming in order to save mankind.

The Second Coming actually took place about two hundred years ago, when the Lord opened the inner meaning of the Word through the agency of His dedicated servant Emanuel Swedenborg. This inner meaning was the light coming through the clouds. The beautiful vision of the holy city New Jerusalem descending from God out of heaven is the picture of the New Church on earth built in the lives of all who study the Word diligently in the light of this new knowledge and do their best to live as this new knowledge teaches them. The first essential of this new life is to recognize the Lord Jesus Christ as the one God of heaven and earth, the alpha and the omega.

Swedenborg tells us that on June 19, 1770, the twelve apostles were sent by the Lord throughout the spiritual world to "preach the Gospel that the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns." So we in the New Church celebrate June 19 as "New Church Day."

