
=== Notes for Parents

We have read the description of the beautiful city for which our church is named, which the apostle John saw in vision descending from God out of heaven. It is not by chance that the Bible begins with the creation of the world and ends with the descent of the holy city: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth" and, as Jesus told John in the first verse of our lesson for today, "I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last." Alpha and omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. The whole teaching of the Bible is summed up in this verse.

In the New Church the nineteenth of June is known as "New Church Day." This is because Swedenborg tells us in his last great work True Christian Religion (n. 791): "After this work was finished the Lord called together His twelve disciples who followed Him in the world; and the next day He sent them all forth throughout the whole spiritual world to preach the Gospel that the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages. ... This took place on the nineteenth day of June, 1770."

Almost everyone today speaks of our times as "this new age."

But most of them are thinking in terms of cars, airplanes, medical and archeological research, space travel, and computers. Man has indeed learned more and more about the physical world in which he lives, but he did not and does not create that world; neither is he necessarily made happier by his new knowledge and use of it. In fact, every advance in physical knowledge creates new problems. Why?

The first verse of chapter 21 of Revelation tells us: "And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away." This is indeed a new age, but it is the Lord and not man who has made it new. As we read through the Bible we find how man, created by the Lord in a first state of innocence and happiness — the Garden of Eden state — has again and again wrecked his world by choosing not to believe in and obey the Lord, preferring to direct his own life, choosing to put the tree of the knowledge of good and evil in the center of his garden in place of the tree of life planted there by the Lord.

The new knowledge of the inner meaning of the Word which the Lord has given to man in His Second Coming is to be His final revelation. The New Church will last for ages and ages because sufficient light has now been given to satisfy all who want to recognize the Lord and do His will no matter what arguments may be advanced by the "learned" men of the new age. We are still able to think rationally and choose the Lord's direction instead of our own. Each of us must study and think and choose for himself.

