
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Speak of the Second Coming and of the new knowledge which has been given us, and the need of studying the Word more and more and choosing freely to try to behave as the Lord would have us behave. Review Revelation 1, emphasizing Revelation 1:11 as an introduction to today's lesson. The important lesson for this class is that the Second Coming has taken place, and how it took place.

---
What is the last book in the Bible?

Through whom was it written?

It was a vision of what would happen to the Christian Church founded by the apostles.

What person did John first see?

Do you remember what the Lord Jesus said first to him (Revelation 1:11)?

Today we are celebrating "New Church Day," which is the nineteenth of June. On that day, about two centuries ago, the Lord Jesus proclaimed that He was the sole ruler of the world, and that all who wished to recognize Him and live as He now clearly taught them might enter the beautiful city and live there forever.

This is a wonderful promise that has been given us. It seems as though we would all receive it with delight, doesn't it? But to receive it means much more than just saying, "Yes, I will." It means studying the Word of God day by day, learning more and more from it every day as we grow older. And it means saying "no" to ourselves very often when we want to have our own way, and learning to think of other people's convenience and happiness, and being pleasant and kind instead of cross and mean.

But if we do make this effort, we shall soon find that the harder we really try to be good the easier everything will get and the happier we shall be.

Now read the first verse of our lesson for today.

Alpha and omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. So they stand for the beginning and the end of everything.

This means that we must all know that the Lord Jesus Christ is the one God, creator of the world and everything in it, and that the true object of our lives is to know and serve Him.

John was shown that, even though the Lord had taken on a human body in order to show men how to live, many would still choose not to believe Him. So finally He had to make a Second Coming of a different kind, which would be His final revelation to man.

He would come again "in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory." This means by opening the inner meaning of the Word so that the light of heaven could shine through.

This Second Coming actually took place about two hundred years ago. It was first announced in heaven on June 19, 1770.

That is why we call the nineteenth of June "New Church Day."

We find the key to this inner meaning of the Word in the Writings of Emanuel Swedenborg, whom the Lord chose as His publishing agent.

So we need to study the Word daily, and also to study the Writings of Swedenborg, which enable us to understand it.

Then, if we live as the Lord teaches us to live, we shall be able to enter the gates of the beautiful city New Jerusalem and live there forever.

Notice the last verse of our lesson (Revelation 22:21). It is often used in our church service as the minister's final blessing to the people. It is the most beautiful thing we can wish for anyone.

