
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the difference between the New Church and all other churches and the reason why the Second Coming was made when and as it was.

---
We call the nineteenth day of June "New Church Day." What is the difference between the New Church and all the other churches in the world? We know that there are good people in all the churches, people who believe in God and are trying to live as they think God would have them live. This is true not only of the Christian churches but equally of Jews and Mohammedans and the people of what we call the pagan religions. Yet the different churches have always had different ideas of what a good life really was, different ideas of just who and what God is and of what His will is.

In preparing for your life in this world you do not say "I want to be a good and useful person" and then fumble along from day to day doing whatever happens to come your way, without study, thought, and practice in your chosen field. You study your own abilities and your own weaknesses and choose the best schooling for the work for which you think you are best fitted. But our life on this earth lasts only a few years. It is the spiritual world in which we shall all live to eternity. Does it make sense to imagine that we do not have to study and plan and practice for that life even more than for this?

Just as our homes and schools give us progressive instruction as we grow in age and ability to receive it, so the Lord from His first creation of man upon the earth has progressively provided all the instruction man was capable of receiving. The wise have recognized this instruction as coming from the all-wise God, have studied it, and have made use of it in their daily lives. The foolish have closed their eyes and ears and stumbled along on their own.

The Lord has now in His Second Coming given us the key to all the spiritual knowledge man can ever need. The New Church recognizes this and is founded on the belief that Jesus Christ glorified is the one God of heaven and earth and that His instruction can be found in His Word illumined by the new light from within it, now revealed to us. It is the revelation given two hundred years ago to meet the need of men of the new age when they were beginning to hunt for the reason back of everything and asking questions about the Word which they could not find answered in the literal sense. In the New Church we can find the answers to all of men's questions about the Lord, the purpose of our life here on earth, and the nature and reality of the spiritual world. It takes study and continued effort, as does anything that is worthwhile, but it makes us more and more useful to the Lord and to our fellow men and leads us into the holy city.

