
=== Adult

We should be able to take it for granted that the adults know the general story of Isaac, and so the teacher may concentrate on the specific lesson, which is an important one often overlooked.

All adults who have brought up children or who have observed the development of any child from infancy through the early "teens" should be able to draw upon their experience for help in understanding our lesson for today and its background. The keynote of the lesson is to be found in the wells. Throughout the Bible a well is the symbol of the Word. We dig wells when we go to the Word for truth. Without the Word our lives are barren.

Abraham had dug wells in the Philistine country. In early childhood we learn the stories of the Word and are given instruction from them. But as we develop out of the innocent childhood states, as we learn more about the world and its standards and begin to reason from appearances — the Ishmael state — the Philistines stop up these wells of truth and fill them with earth. The Philistines lived in the Holy Land along the coast. Their part of the country pictures knowledge of doctrine, but the Philistines themselves represent "the memory-knowledge of knowledges," the knowledge of spiritual truths held in the memory but not used in life. We all have the Philistines in us, for we all know more truth than we are willing to use. Whenever we know what we ought to do but reason ourselves out of doing it because it is not convenient, the Philistines in us are stopping up Abraham's wells and filling them with earth.

In @AC 2083 Swedenborg shows us very clearly the nature of the progression from Abraham through Jacob in the Lord's own experience, which is our pattern: "Abraham, as said in various places before, represents the Lord's internal man, but Isaac His rational man, and Jacob His natural man. The Lord's internal man was Jehovah Himself. His rational man, because conceived of the influx of His internal man into the affection of memory-knowledges in the external man, was from the Divine thus conjoined with the Human. Hence the first rational, represented by Ishmael, was human; but it was made Divine by the Lord, and then it is represented by Isaac." So in our lives our first reasoning, although a faculty given us by the Lord, is exercised on the basis of natural knowledges and must later be corrected as we learn by experience that appearances are often deceiving and that spiritual causes and principles are the only true basis of rational thought. Wise parents recognize the "difficult" years in their children as merely a necessary step in their growing up, and draw a breath of relief when they see the first signs of maturer judgment.

It is interesting to note that Sarah dies some time before Abraham. Sarah, Abraham's true wife, represents the genuine affection for truths received in the simplicity of childhood. The child outgrows this affection when he begins to want to do his own thinking, but the good intention of childhood persists, joining itself to a different type of affection for truth — comparatively obscure — which is represented by Keturah, whom Abraham married after Sarah's death. Modern psychiatry, which delves into the inner experiences of the childhood of an individual, might well study the six sons of Abraham and Keturah and their descendants. They appear from time to time throughout the Old Testament story, usually as enemies of the descendants of Isaac, but we note in Genesis 25:5 that "Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac." All our spiritual progress depends upon the development of the true rational whose judgments are based without equivocation upon the truths of the Word.

Abraham and Isaac both swore a covenant of peace with Abimelech, king of the Philistines, who represents "the doctrine of faith that looks to rational things." The truly spiritual man has no quarrel with interest in doctrine and reasonings about it. It was the Lord who sent Isaac down into the Philistine country in time of famine — to knowledges of doctrine, not to the mere natural knowledges represented by Egypt — and prospered him there. Isaac was even led to repeat the ruse twice practiced by Abraham (Genesis 12:11-20; 20:2-7) and to represent Rebekah at first as his sister. The difference between Rebekah as a sister and Rebekah as a wife is the difference between the affection for spiritual truth as an intellectual exercise and affection for the same truth for the purpose of directing the life. Swedenborg points out that with those who do not wish to change their ways of life, spiritual truth will be rejected if it is presented first as an exhortation to good, whereas in its merely intellectual aspects they may find it interesting and pleasing, and after it is accepted intellectually it may gradually affect the life. We should remember this in our missionary efforts.

Beersheba — "the well of the oath" — became Isaac's home. It is the southernmost city of the Holy Land, and we recall that the north and south direction is the measure of the extent of enlightenment, the north representing ignorance and the south enlightenment; so it is clear that Isaac's settling in Beersheba, digging a well and building an altar there after his covenant with Abimelech, gives us the true pattern of spiritual enlightenment which is the necessary basis for a good life, both external and internal.

