
=== Intermediate

The teacher should review very briefly the story of Isaac from his birth to the time of our lesson. The principal emphasis of this lesson should be placed on the meaning of Isaac in our lives, on why Isaac prospered in the Philistine country more than the Philistines themselves, and on the meaning of the wells and what happened to them. The teacher should be familiar with the interpretation of the incident concerning Rebekah as found in the Senior and Adult notes, and should be prepared to touch upon it if the young people are curious to understand more than is given in their own notes.

---
Abraham represents our spiritual state in infancy and early childhood. It is a beautiful state, and yet we know that we all expect and want little children to grow up. If they are to take their true places in the world, they must learn to think and act for themselves. The period of learning to think and reason is pictured in the Word by the stories of Abraham's sons, Ishmael and Isaac.

Ishmael, you remember, was not Sarah's son. His mother was Sarah's Egyptian bondwoman Hagar. There is a great deal in the Bible about the land of Egypt. Egypt, because of the river Nile, did not depend on rainfall for its fertility, and so there was always grain in Egypt even when other countries were suffering from drought and famine. Egypt represents the plane of memory-knowledge. We can store our minds with facts even when we are not able to understand and use them. Ishmael, born of an Egyptian mother, represents the beginning of our thinking and reasoning power, when we judge by what we see and hear in the natural world without understanding the causes that are within and above what we see.

But after a while we begin to find that things are not always just what they seem to be. Our senses sometimes deceive us. Our plans do not turn out as we expected. There are spiritual laws which must be learned and obeyed. When we see this, Isaac is born. In our lesson for today there is a famine in the land of Canaan, just as there had been in the time of Abraham; but the Lord tells Isaac not to go down into Egypt as his father had done. Our higher reason must not depend on the kind of knowledge which concerns this world only. We must learn doctrine concerning the Lord and spiritual life. This kind of knowledge is represented by the land of the Philistines.

Now notice in our story the difference between the Philistines and Isaac. Isaac prospered so greatly in the Philistine country that the Philistines envied him and wanted him to leave their land. The Philistines picture the kind of people who like to know what the Bible teaches and to talk and reason about it but do not try to live according to its teachings. Isaac pictures those who try to learn and understand the same things, but for the sake of living as the Lord wants them to live. So Isaac prospered and became rich in the Philistine country.

Another thing in our lesson which shows the difference between the Philistines and Abraham and Isaac is the statement that the Philistines filled up with earth the wells which Abraham's servants had dug. Water, you know, represents truth. In the Word, a well represents the truth as we find it in the Bible. The wells which Abraham and Isaac dug picture the Bible when it is studied as the Word of the Lord for the sake of life. To fill these wells up with earth is to stop the truth from appearing in the Word by preferring our own opinions to the Lord's guidance. And you notice that the Philistines claimed two of the wells as their own. When people think that the Word was made up by men instead of inspired by the Lord, they cannot find its truth. All they see is their own ideas. We all have this tendency, which comes from our natural self-love. You know that when you start to argue with someone, you seldom really listen to what he is saying: you think only about making him agree with you.

Isaac's apparent deceit in telling Abimelech that Rebekah was his sister is something you will understand better when you are older. But you should know that this is the third time such a thing has happened in the Bible story. Abraham earlier told Abimelech that Sarah was his sister, and still earlier in Egypt he told Pharoah the same thing. We find these two stories in Genesis 20:2-7 and 12:11-20. Swedenborg points out that the fact that this incident is repeated three times in the Word shows that it has a very deep and important meaning. You will see that this is an illustration of what we were saying just now — that things are not always what they seem.

This is also the second time that an agreement has been made at Beersheba. Read Genesis 21:22-31. Beer means "well," and Sheba means "oath," and so Beersheba means "the well of the oath." It was the southernmost city in the Holy Land.

Those who think that the Word is the product of men sometimes argue that these repetitions are mistakes — something put in by the scribes who copied the Scriptures. This is one of the ways in which the well of truth is stopped up with earth. The Lord makes no mistakes.

