
=== Junior

The general story of Isaac up to the beginning of our lesson should be reviewed briefly. If the children ask why Isaac lied about his wife, call their attention to the two similar stories about Abraham (Genesis 12:10-20; 20:1-11) and tell them that the explanation is in the spiritual sense, which they will study when they are older. The story of the wells is the important part of the lesson for the Juniors, and an attempt should be made to fix Beersheba in their minds.

Abraham had been recognized by all the people of the land as a great man. He had made agreements with the kings among whom he lived and had found plenty of pasture and water for his flocks and herds. Isaac was now head of the family, but the people of the land did not know him as they had known Abraham and they thought that they might safely take advantage of him. You remember that when Abraham first came into the land there was a famine and he had to go down into Egypt for a time. Now there is another famine, but the Lord tells Isaac not to go to Egypt.

Where did Isaac go?

What was the king of the Philistines called? 

What did Isaac tell the people about Rebekah?

How did Abimelech find out that she was Isaac's wife? 

Did Isaac prosper in the Philistine country?

What had happened to the wells which Abraham had dug there? 

Why did Abimelech want to send Isaac away?

Why could Isaac not use the first two wells which his servants dug?

What happened when they found the third?

What agreement did Isaac and Abimelech make?

What did Isaac call the place where it was made?

Now read Genesis 21:22-32. It is thought that the word Abimelech, which means "father of a king," was not the name of one person but of a whole line of kings of the Philistines. Abraham had made an agreement with the Abimelech of his day just as Isaac did now. Shebah or Sheba means "oath" and Beer means "well"; so Beersheba means "the well of the oath." Look on a map and find the Philistine country along the shore of the Mediterranean Sea. We shall hear a great deal about the Philistines. Now find Beersheba. We may think of it as the southernmost city of the Holy Land. The northernmost city was Dan. So the expression "from Dan to Beersheba," which we find several times in the Bible, means the whole length of the land. Isaac's agreement with Abimelech at Beersheba established him with the people of the land as a great man, just as his father had been.

