
=== Notes for Parents

The son born to Abraham and Sarah was Isaac, and we remember that Ishmael, who was fourteen years old when Isaac was born, mocked at the baby and as a consequence was sent away with his mother Hagar into the wilderness. This may at first seem to us a harsh punishment for a thoughtless act, but we can understand it if we realize the lesson it is given to teach us. We all have an "Ishmael" in us in our natural disposition to judge according to appearances and to discount the deep spiritual causes and principles. Our teenagers do this when they are so sure that they know better than their parents. We can see the folly of it in them, but do we always realize that it is exactly the same folly in us which makes us imagine that we know better than the Lord what is good for us?

Isaac, who was to be Abraham's heir, represents our maturer judgment, which develops late and grows up slowly under the Lord's guidance, and is steady and obedient. Our story today is a picture of how this higher judgment can direct our lives wisely even after the simple trust and obedience of childhood, represented by Abraham, is gone.

If you will read the Lord's words to the woman of Samaria in John 4:5-14, you will see that the Lord's truth in the Bible is the well to which we must go for spiritual cleansing and refreshment, the only water with which our thirst can be permanently satisfied. The stories of the Bible which we learned in early childhood are the wells dug by Abraham. We, like the Philistines, often fill these wells up with earth when, as we grow older, we let worldly ideas and desires discourage and destroy our belief in the Bible. Isaac, our more mature judgment, has to re-dig these wells. As he did this, the Lord could prosper him until even the king of the Philistines, who had at first tried to drive him out of the country, decided that it was to his interest to make peace with him. The people to whom we go for advice and help in our times of doubt and need are not those whose lives are controlled by selfish and worldly ambition, but those whose judgments are based on the deep and sure foundation of the Lord's precepts.

