
=== Primary

Teach the children the name Isaac and what it means. Tell the story of Isaac and then read the story for the day, explaining the importance of the wells and emphasizing the name Beersheba.

Where was Abraham's first home?

What did the Lord tell him to do?

Where did Abraham finally settle in the land of Canaan?

What was the one thing Abraham and Sarah wanted which they did not have?

Who came to Abraham with a message from the Lord?

What was the message?

Less than a year later Abraham and Sarah did have a son. They named him Isaac, which means "laughter." Abraham and Sarah were old when Isaac was born.

After Isaac grew up, his father sent one of his trusted servants on a long journey to the place called Haran where Abraham's brother Nahor had settled, to bring back a wife for Isaac from among his own relatives, because the people of Canaan did not worship the Lord, and Abraham wanted his son to have a wife who would not lead him away from the true worship. The servant brought back Rebekah, the granddaughter of Nahor, and Isaac loved her very much. Isaac and Rebekah had twin sons, Esau and Jacob. We shall hear more about them in our next lesson.

After Abraham died, Isaac became the head of the family, and the people of Canaan soon had to recognize that he was a great man just as his father had been.

Into whose country did he go in a time of famine?

Abimelech, king of the Philistines, was afraid of him and asked him to leave.

What did Isaac do in order to get water for his flocks and cattle?

Who had dug the wells in the first place?

What had the Philistines done to them?

Over how many wells did the herdsmen of the land quarrel with Isaac's herdsmen?

What did Isaac call the third well? Rehoboth means "room."

You see Isaac chose to let the Philistines have the first two wells rather than quarrel over them.

Then Abimelech came and asked Isaac to make peace with him, and they made a treaty and swore not to do each other any harm.

You see Isaac did not let his herdsmen keep on quarreling with the herdsmen of the land. He went on until he found a well which the others did not want. Then Abimelech realized that Isaac was not his enemy, and came and asked Isaac to make peace with him. You know that if you keep on quarreling with another child, someone always gets hurt in the end, and everyone is unhappy. But if one of you refuses to go on quarreling and just walks away and does something else, the one who is left is likely to want to make up. So when a quarrel begins, try to remember that it is always the one who has the most sense who stops first.

