
=== Senior

The development from Abraham through Ishmael to Isaac should be explained clearly as a preparation for understanding the meaning of Isaac's dealings with the Philistines. The important lesson is the difference between an intellectual interest in the Word and going to the Word and studying it to find out how to live.

---
Our true spiritual progress comes through Isaac, our spiritual rational faculty. If we are developing properly, Abraham gives all that he has to Isaac and dies, as we are told in Genesis 25:5-9, and Ishmael and Isaac bury him. It is after this that Isaac and Rebekah have their twin sons, Esau and Jacob.

Then comes our story for today. There is a famine in the land, just as there had been when Abraham first came there. Abram had gone down into Egypt, and we remember that this pictured our need in early childhood for acquiring all kinds of natural know]edges. But Isaac is told by the Lord not to go to Egypt, and instead he goes to the land of the Philistines. This is because natural knowledges are not the basis of spiritual reasoning. The land of the Philistines represents knowledges of doctrine.

We find that Abraham had in his time made a treaty with Abimelech, king of the Philistines, and had dug wells in the Philistine country; but after the death of Abraham the Philistines had stopped these wells and filled them with earth. The Philistines themselves represent those who like to learn doctrine but make no attempt to live according to it. When we are little children in the Abraham state, we learn — among other natural knowledges — stories from the Word and the lessons drawn from them by our elders. These are Abraham's wells. But often, as we begin to assert our own wills, these wells are stopped up with the earth of our own worldly and selfish ideals. We rebel against going to Sunday school and church. We stop saying our prayers. We think we know enough to take care of ourselves without the Lord.

When Isaac develops in us, we have to go down again into the Philistine country and re-dig the wells. Some of them we cannot reclaim because the Philistine hold on them is too strong, but eventually, if we persist, we find one we can develop, and then Isaac can renew the oath made between his father and Abimelech. Beersheba means "the well of the oath." In the Word, a well is frequently used as a symbol of the Bible, because we draw truth from the Bible just as one draws water from a well. If we are to become regenerate, we must keep on searching until we find a doctrine which enables us to understand the Bible and to see the Lord's truth in it.

One part of our chapter often puzzles people. Isaac in the beginning deceives Abimelech by saying that Rebekah is his sister. Abraham had said the same to Pharaoh about Sarah and repeated it later to Abimelech (Genesis 12:11-20; 20:2-7). Critics of the Bible have sometimes thought that these repetitions were mistakes of the scribes who copied the Scriptures, but this is a case of the Philistines' filling a well with earth. Swedenborg says: "As the same thing occurred three times, and is three times repeated in the Word, it is evident that there is in it an arcanum of the greatest moment, which can never be known to anyone except from the internal sense" (@AC 3386). In the internal sense a sister pictures rational truth, but a wife pictures truth united to good. People in the Philistine state are interested in learning rational truth; but because they have no desire to apply rational truth to their own conduct, they would destroy the same truth if it were presented to them as something they ought to do. This meaning is not so hard to understand as you might think. We all enjoy learning new things, but do we always welcome good advice?

