
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of this story should make a clear and helpful lesson. The teacher may draw on the Adult notes for further points if he finds them of use.

---
Among the regulations for their worship given to the children of Israel at Sinai was the setting apart of the Levites — the descendants of Jacob's third son Levi — to have charge of the care and service of the tabernacle, whether in camp or on the march. At the same time it was commanded that Aaron should be the high priest and that no one but a descendant of Aaron might be a priest. The children of Israel had had abundant evidence of the fact that Moses, who was also a Levite of course, was the one appointed by the Lord to be their leader and governor — that the Lord spoke to them through Moses. The rebellion against Moses and Aaron of which our chapter for today tells was therefore actually a rebellion against the Lord, even though it was led by a Levite who pretended to wish to serve the Lord.

So the first lesson we may draw from this story is that a person may go through all the outward professions and forms of worship and inwardly be in opposition to the Lord. Isaiah said of the people of his time: "This people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their heart far from me" (Isaiah 29:13), and the Lord said of the judgment:

"Many will say unto me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity" (Matthew 7:22-23). This is one of the temptations of all those who are brought up in the habit of church—going — the temptation to let the habit be a substitute for real religion, which is love to the Lord and the neighbor in the heart, and obedience to the commandments in the outward life.

Dathan and Abiram were not Levites. They were descendants of Reuben, Jacob's first son. You remember that the twelve sons of Jacob picture all the different kinds of affections that enter into the development of a good character. Reuben, the firstborn, represents faith. If we do not believe there is a God, we cannot even begin to make spiritual progress. But people may say, "Oh yes, of course I believe in God," and never try to learn anything about Him or about how He wants them to live. They depend for direction on their own ideas and on the general standards of the community in which they live. You notice in the story that Dathan and Abiram would not come to the tabernacle when Moses summoned them, but stood in the door of their tents with all their families. This pictures that unless we are humble and willing to learn of the Lord, we are really looking only to ourselves for wisdom.

And what happened to Dathan and Abiram? "The ground clave asunder that was under them: and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up." This really happened to Dathan and Abiram and their families, but it is in the Word because it pictures something that can happen to us spiritually. You remember the first verse in the Bible and that the heavens and the earth in us are the heavenly and the earthly part of us. If we refuse to learn of the Lord and obey Him and so fail to develop the heavenly part, then the earthly part actually swallows us up. Worldly ideas fill our minds and choke out the possibility of heavenly development. The Hebrew word which is translated pit in verse 33 is Sheol, which means "the place of the dead." When we shut the Lord out of our minds and hearts, the only life we have is selfish life, which is the equivalent of death spiritually.

Korah himself and the two hundred and fifty "princes of the assembly" who supported him did not remain in their tents, but gathered at the command of Moses before the tabernacle, each with his censer full of incense in his hand. Princes in the Word represent primary thoughts or precepts; so these princes picture the precepts which Korah had gathered to support him in his rebellion. One of these precepts we find in verse 3, where Korah says to Moses: "Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them." This was a truth which Korah was using to set himself up as equal to Moses and Aaron (Exodus 19:6). When we are arguing in favor of getting our own way, we particularly try to find truths which can be twisted to support us. This is what Swedenborg calls the "falsification of truth." The censers represent worship; the fire in them, the kind of love which inspires the worship; and the incense, prayer. The censers in the tabernacle were of brass, which as we learned recently represents natural good.

What happened to Korah and the princes? Fire from the Lord came out and consumed them. Fire from the Lord is unselfish love, which goes out to all men constantly. It is the thing from which we all live. But when a selfish person receives this sacred fire, he turns it into self-love which destroys him. You notice, however, that the censers which the princes carried were not destroyed, but were beaten out and used to cover the great altar of sacrifice. For example, if we were to discover that some people who go to church are hypocrites, we should not stop going to church ourselves; instead, we should learn from our discovery that true worship is the recognition that any good we may do is really from the Lord and not from ourselves. Sacrifice, you know, means "to make sacred," and the great altar in the outer court of the tabernacle, on which all the sacrifices were offered, is the symbol of this acknowledgment that we can claim no goodness for ourselves. Only the Lord is good.

Even after these two terrible object lessons had been given, some of the people still murmured and actually blamed Moses and Aaron for causing the death of their leaders. This is the old constant temptation to shift the responsibility for our sins to someone else. It hangs on even after we have to acknowledge that we actually do have the sins. But until we honestly say, "This sin is my own fault and nobody else's," we cannot get rid of the sin. It continues to fester in us and to destroy our spiritual life, just as the plague began to destroy the people who murmured.

Now suppose this time you try to work out the rest of the story for yourselves. Read verses 46 to 50. Think of Moses as representing the Word; of Aaron, the high priest, as representing the Lord as to His divine goodness; and of the correspondence of the censer, the fire, and the incense. You will then have a sure recipe for getting rid of the evils in your own character which are plaguing you. (Following the "Suggested Questions on the Lesson" you will find an outline of the deeper meaning of verses 46-50 against which to check your results.)

