
=== Junior

In addition to the lessons suggested for the Primary class, the Juniors may be given a little of the correspondence of the punishments which followed the rebellion.

After the book of Leviticus comes the book of Numbers. It is so named because it begins with a numbering or census of the people which Moses took at the command of the Lord. Then the pillar of cloud was taken up from the tabernacle and the children of Israel resumed their march through the wilderness.

We have seen how prone the Israelites were to forget all that the Lord had done for them and to be restless and dissatisfied. We must not think of the children of Israel as a mere handful of people who would all be well acquainted with each other and easy to instruct and lead. When they left Egypt, there were six hundred thousand of them who were grown up, besides the children. Among such a large number of people there are always some who find fault with everything and spend their time trying to stir others up to agree with them and make trouble. Even among the leaders there is sometimes jealousy and disagreement. So several times Moses had to deal with rebellion of one sort or another. Our story for today is about one of these rebellions.

Who was the principal leader of the revolt?

To what tribe did he belong?

Who plotted with him against Moses and Aaron?

What did they say about Moses and Aaron?

Who did Moses say would settle the question of leadership? 

What did Moses tell Korah to do?

What happened to Dathan and Abiram and their families?

What happened to Korah and the two hundred and fifty princes who offered incense?

What was Moses told to do with their censers?

So the rebellion was stopped by the Lord Himself. But even such a terrible object lesson was not enough to silence the complaints of the people. Our chapter goes on to tell us that now they actually blamed Moses and Aaron for the death of their friends. And this brought upon them a plague which killed thousands of them and was stopped only by the intercession of Moses and Aaron themselves.

Why do you think the Lord gives us a story like this in the Bible?

It is because the Lord used the history of the Israelites to teach us and other people in all times lessons which we need to learn. The Israelites, as we read often in the Word, were a "stubborn and rebellious" people and could be kept in order only by such startling punishments. And, although men have developed since that time and are better able to learn by reason, we still often need a vivid picture like this to make us stop to think. Korah, Dathan, and Abiram rebelled against Moses and Aaron primarily because they were jealous and wanted to be first themselves. Do we ever have these same feelings? When you see some other boy or girl given the position of honor and trust in school or in your club, are you never tempted to say, "Why should he be picked out instead of me? He's not so wonderful. Why should I have to do what he says?"

Sometimes, of course, it is true that the wrong person is picked for leadership, but not very often, and if we look at things honestly and unselfishly, we can usually see good reasons for the choice. The Israelites had had plenty of proof that Moses and Aaron were really the leaders chosen for them by the Lord.

Today we have the Lord Himself for our leader. When people had become so perverse that no human leaders could bring them back into order, the Lord came into the world Himself to save us and show us the right way to live. And what happens when we rebel against His leadership and want to have our own way instead? One of three things happens to us: Either the "earth" — our lower nature — swallows us up, or the "fire" of self-love destroys us, or we are "carried away" by various evils as the plague struck down the rebellious Israelites. The Lord's way is the only way to peace and happiness.

