
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson for this age should be the pervasive and devastating effect on the life and character of allowing self-seeking and self-intelligence to work in the heart and mind, and especially of allowing them to creep into our worship. Stress the fact that the rebellion began with the murmuring of the people and developed more or less under cover until it found a leader in Korah — that is, until it influenced the attitude toward worship.

---
Our story for today is a striking one in the literal account. We have noted how easily the Israelites in their journey through the wilderness became discouraged and dissatisfied. Even the complete organization of their civil and religious life which took place during their eleven months at Sinai could not prevent this. Is this so surprising? Think of our own country, founded on sound principles of freedom and democracy, more peaceful and prosperous than any other nation in the world, and yet never without its undercurrents of dissatisfaction and rebellion. And think how prone we all are to find fault with any restrictions which interfere with our ability to do as we please. Swedenborg tells us that the Israelites were strongly inclined to think only in terms of their immediate external condition. This was why they could be led by punishments or promises of reward, and why miracles could be wrought among them, without interfering with their freedom of choice. The Lord, when He was in the world, said to the people in some of the cities where He had wrought miracles: "If the mighty works which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes" (Matthew 11:21). It would appear that the Israelites were such that miracles did not force their wills. So the Lord could direct their history in such a way that He could use its course and incidents to represent in the Word by correspondence the lessons He wants to teach us. The incidents of our chapter actually happened as they are recorded, but their value for us is in their internal meaning.

In general the story pictures the consequences of rebellion against the Lord's established order and of setting up our own will against the Lord's and our own wisdom against the truths given us in the Word — that is, of claiming goodness and wisdom for ourselves. This rebellion, in the literal story, had been developing throughout the wilderness journey and gathering strength until it needed only leadership to bring it into the open. In very much the same way, the selfish elements in our own characters fester in our hearts and minds and gain strength until some particular issue brings them out into open rebellion.

Korah was a Levite. The tribe of Levi had been set apart by the Lord for the service of the tabernacle, but only Aaron and his descendants could minister as priests. This was the burden of Korah's complaint. As a Levite he felt himself as good as Aaron. In attacking Aaron's position he had to discredit Moses also, because it was through Moses that the Lord had given Aaron his commission. The Levites in general represent the affections and thoughts in us which lead us to worship the Lord and direct us in our worship. Aaron in his representative character as high priest symbolizes genuine goodness proceeding from the Lord, and Moses stands for genuine truth as we receive it through the Word. Korah represents a selfish motive entering into our worship. When we go to church because it is good policy or carry on our duties in the church with a feeling of self-righteousness or a desire to dominate over others, true worship is profaned and our whole character feels the effects.

In the rebellion there were four elements involved:

(1) Korah himself is the selfish motive which leads all the others.

(2) The two hundred and fifty "princes of the assembly" are the precepts which govern our reasoning. These princes had been appointed by Moses to govern under him. When Korah turns them against Moses, it is a picture of what Swedenborg calls the "falsification of truth." We find an example of it in verse 3 in Korah's statement, "seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them." This is a precept given to the children of Israel by the Lord (Exodus 19:6) but falsified by Korah through his use of it to justify himself in his rebellion.

When we are bent on getting something for ourselves or on proving something we want to believe, we try to find truths which can be used in such a way as to support us. The two hundred and fifty princes with Korah, presenting their censers full of incense before the tabernacle, were destroyed by fire proceeding from the Lord. When we profane our worship by entering into it with selfish motives, we turn the Lord's love — by which we all live — into self-love, which is spiritual death.

Then there were (3) Dathan and Abiram, and On, who is mentioned only at the beginning of the story and must have thought better of his part in the rebellion because he is not said to have shared the punishment of the others. These three were of the tribe of Reuben. Reuben, Jacob's first son, represents "faith in the understanding." This is the first step in the development of our spiritual life. If we do not acknowledge with our minds that there is a God, we cannot even start on the road to a good life. But if we stop with this acknowledgment and do not go on to learn about the Lord and try to obey Him, the acknowledgment has no real force in our lives. Dathan and Abiram would not come to the tabernacle. They stood in the door of their own tents. A man who says, "I believe in God," but refuses to learn about Him or to worship Him, continues to live according to his own ideas and is presently "swallowed up" by worldly considerations and cut off from the light of heaven. Spiritually he goes down into "the pit" (Sheol) and the earth closes over him.

The last element in the rebellion was (4) "the people." The people in the Word represent the multitude of everyday thoughts in which our character expresses itself. When our worship is profaned by self-love and our ideas of right and wrong are self-directed, everything in our life is tainted. The scourge which destroyed so many of the people is a picture of the devastation which self-confidence and self-assertion cause in our minds and hearts. This plague can be stayed only by turning to the Lord with humility and praying for His help. The censer is the symbol of worship, the fire from the altar is unselfish love for the Lord and the neighbor, and the incense is prayer.

We should note that the censers carried by Korah and the princes were not destroyed. We do not abstain from public and private worship just because we find that our motives have not always been pure. Instead, we try to change ourselves and to make our worship a genuine offering of ourselves to the Lord, as the censers were beaten into plates to cover the great altar of sacrifice.

