
=== Intermediate

The history of the ancient Hebrew nation should be rounded out for this class by telling them the reason for the return from exile. The teacher may then give as much of the history and position of the book of Psalms as he thinks will interest the class. But the major portion of the class period should be devoted to the nature and the lesson of Psalm 119.

Our lesson today is from the book of Psalms, which is often also called the book of David, who was called "the sweet psalmist of Israel." The book of Psalms was the hymn—book of the temple and for this reason, probably, the Jews did not include it with the Law and the Prophets as part of their most sacred Scriptures. But David himself attributed his Psalms to inspiration from the Lord, and the Lord later placed them with the Law and the Prophets as part of the Word. Read 2 Samuel 23:1-2 and Luke 24:44.

Psalm 119, the longest of the Psalms, is an "alphabetical" Psalm.

You will see in your Bible that it is divided into twenty-two sections of eight verses each, and that there is a strange word at the head of each section (KJV). These words are the names of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet in their proper order, and in the original Hebrew each verse in a given section begins with the letter which heads that section. Swedenborg tells us that every letter of the Hebrew alphabet "signifies a thing in the spiritual world" and that "therefore David wrote the 119th Psalm, in order, according to the letters of the alphabet." The same thing is done in Psalm 111, but not so evidently, and there are five other Psalms which at least partially carry out this principle.

But there is another characteristic of Psalm 119 which makes it a particularly important one for us to study. It is throughout a Psalm about the Word — its origin, its power, and the place it ought to have in our lives. Every one of its hundred and seventy-six verses contains some word or words expressive of divine truth as it is given us in the Word of God: law, testimonies, ways, precepts, commandments, judgments, statutes, word, faithfulness, ordinances, name. Many of the verses of this Psalm are very familiar to us. We sometimes sing or read selections from it in church. And we should read and study it and give it a chance to make its deep impression upon us.

For the Word, as we know, is not only our instructor in all things concerning the Lord and our souls, but it is our only means of coming into contact with the Lord. All knowledge of the Divine which exists in the world anywhere has come originally from our Word or from the Ancient Word which preceded it. We cannot find out about God for ourselves. He has to reveal Himself to us, and He does so not independently to each one's heart, as some people like to think, but always through the verses of the Word which we have taken into our minds. Remember the covenant of the rainbow in the story of Noah. It is the raindrops of truth from the Word in our memories which reflect the pure white light of truth from God and bring it back to us in beautiful varied colors according to our states and needs.

Our Psalm tells us, "Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path": the Word enlightens our minds and shows us the right way of life. It tells us, "Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me": it shows us how to recognize and fight our temptations. It tells us, "For ever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven": the Word is the expression of the fundamental order of heaven; it does not change with earthly times. It tells us, "Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them" (the original meaning of offend is to cause to stumble, as in RSV): obedience to the Word enables us to live in inner peace and to be undisturbed by any of the adversities which come to us. Every verse of the Psalm gives us something important to think about, which helps us to come into the state of mind and endeavor expressed in verses 33 and 34: "Teach me, O Lord, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it unto the end. Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart."

