
=== Junior

A good many facts concerning the Psalms and their use by the ancient Hebrews have been given in the Junior notes, which should be of interest to the children. The alphabetical character of Psalm 119 should also interest them. But the principal thought to leave with them is that of the vital importance of the Word to our lives.

The Psalms are meant to be sung, and you know that we do at times sing them in church. We have an organ or piano for accompaniment. The ancient Hebrews, of course, did not have pianos. They did have an instrument that was called an "organ," but it was not at all like ours. We know only that it was a wind instrument, probably made of several pipes fastened together. In the Bible the word organ is used to cover all the wind instruments. It is mentioned first in Genesis 4:21. The Jews also had other instruments which were used to accompany the Psalms. If you will look through the headings of the Psalms, you will often find in some Bibles the Hebrew name of the type of instrument which was to be used with the Psalm — Neginoth means stringed instruments, Nehiloth wind instruments like the flute. Some of the words in these headings refer to the particular tune to which the Psalm was sung. For example, the heading of Psalm 22 gives Aijeleth Shahar, which means "the hind of the morning." We learn from the book of Chronicles that four thousand men of the tribe of Levi were set apart to carry on the musical part of the worship. Three men, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan (or Jeduthun) were the original leaders chosen in the time of David, and the same families continued to be brought up to be the singers and players. It was their life work. The women as well as the men took part. Read Psalm 68:25.

Many of the Psalms were certainly inspired through David, and the whole book is often called the book of David. King David, as you may perhaps remember, was a skillful player on the harp (lyre) and was also called "the sweet psalmist of Israel." But read 2 Samuel 23:1-2, and see that David himself knew and declared that the words of his Psalms were from the Lord and not from his own mind.

The Psalm we have for our lesson for today is the longest one of all. You will see that it has twenty-two sections of eight verses each, and that above each section (KJV) a strange word is printed. These words are the names of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet in their order, and in the original Hebrew each of the eight verses of a section begins with the letter which heads the section.

So Psalm 119 is called an "alphabetical" Psalm. There are a few other Psalms of the alphabetical type, but none so clear and complete as this. The Jews felt that there was something holy about their alphabet, and there really was, for the Hebrew language was the one chosen by the Lord as best suited to His purpose in giving the Word of the Old Testament.

But there is another still more striking fact about Psalm 119. It is all about the Word: its origin, its power, and its effect upon our lives. If you read this Psalm attentively, you will find in every single verse some word or words which refer to the Lord's Word in one or another of these aspects: law, testimony, way, precepts, statutes, commandments, judgments, word. Many of the verses of this Psalm are familiar to us. We should repeat them to ourselves often and we should read and reread the whole Psalm, because it is given to impress upon us the importance of recognizing that the Word is the voice of the Lord speaking to us, that no part of it can change or fail, that we cannot have any real understanding of the Lord, of ourselves, or of the meaning of life without studying it, and that we cannot have any lasting happiness without obeying it. We should never forget that all the misery in the world comes and always has come from failure to learn and live the truth as the Lord has given it to us in His Word.

