
=== Notes for Parents

Judah and Israel were overcome and carried away captive because they refused to obey the Lord in spite of all that He had done for them. They rejected or perverted the orderly worship in the temple and worshiped all manner of idols instead. In Christian countries like ours we have no temptation to make figures of wood or metal and worship them as gods, but many of us have our idols just the same. Anything we think of as more important for us than learning and doing the Lord's will is our idol. It may be money or success or pleasure. It may be husband or wife or children. It may be our own ideas. Or it may be simply physical ease and comfort. Think of all the excuses people have for not thinking about the Lord, not trying to obey Him, not reading the Word or going to church, and you are identifying their idols.

Our Psalm for today is in every verse a praise of the Word of the Lord. A psalm is a song of praise. The book of Psalms was the hymn—book of the temple. It is also often called the book of David, because King David wrote many of the Psalms and directed the organizing of certain families of the Levites into trained singers and musicians to sing and accompany the Psalms in the services of the temple. David was himself a skillful player upon the harp or lyre, and was called "the sweet psalmist of Israel." But David knew and declared that the words of the Psalms were not his own but were put into his mouth by inspiration from the Lord.

Psalm 119 points out to us very clearly and positively that it is from the Word of God alone that we get any understanding of God, of our own nature and relation to Him, and of the meaning and purpose of life. Without knowledge of the Word we stumble through life in darkness. Without obedience to the laws of the Lord as given us in the Word — which are the fundamental laws by which the whole universe is governed — we can have no lasting security, peace, or happiness.

Psalm 119 is an "alphabetical" Psalm. The Hebrew words which you find in some Bibles printed at the top of the sections are the names of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet in their order. In the original Hebrew each one of the eight verses of any given section begins with the letter which heads the section.

