
=== Primary

The children should know what a Psalm is, through whom many of the Psalms were written, and that they were used in the temple worship. The children should be helped to pick out the key words in each verse as the teacher reads the lesson from the Word.

From the very earliest times in the world people have liked to sing. It is usually when you are happy that you feel like singing, but sometimes, too, people express their sad feelings in song. Singing and playing on different kinds of instruments have always been ways in which people naturally expressed their gratitude to the Lord for all the wonderful things He gives us to keep us safe and happy.

Perhaps you remember that when Moses and the children of Israel were delivered by the Lord from their slavery in Egypt, after He had helped them to cross the Red Sea in such a wonderful way, Moses led them in a song of rejoicing and thanks. And then Miriam, the prophetess, who was the sister of Moses and Aaron, "took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances." A timbrel is a musical instrument, one which continued to be a favorite with the Hebrew women all through the history of the Jews in the Old Testament.

In the Bible there is a whole book of songs. It is called "The Psalms." Many of the Psalms were given us by the Lord through King David, who was himself an expert player upon the harp or lyre, and was also called "the sweet psalmist of Israel."

The book of Psalms is a collection of the songs of worship which were sung in the temple.

There are altogether one hundred and fifty Psalms in the book. The one we have for today is the longest of them.

There are two special things you should remember about this Psalm. 

One is that it is an alphabetical Psalm.

That means that in the original Hebrew each of its twenty-two sections begins with a different letter of the alphabet, each verse in the section with the same letter.

The letters are in the correct order of the Hebrew alphabet.

The second thing is that every verse in the whole Psalm contains some word which refers to the Lord's truth as we find it in the Bible.

This word may be law, or statutes, or way, or testimony, or commandments, or judgments, or some other similar word.

Let us read part of this Psalm and see if you can pick out such a word in each verse. [Read Psalm 119:9-16.]

