
=== Senior

The vital importance of reading the Word regularly and guiding our thinking as well as our conduct according to its precepts is the important lesson for the Seniors. The skepticism and materialism which they will meet in the world needs this sane approach to life to balance it.

In Luke 24:44-45 we read that the Lord after His resurrection, in talking to the assembled Apostles, said: "These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me. Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures." This places the book of Psalms on an equal basis with the Law and the Prophets as part of the Old Testament Scriptures. David himself, to whom many of the Psalms are attributed — so that it is often called the book of David — declared that he received them by inspiration (2 Samuel 23:1-2). The Jews class the book of Psalms among the "Writings" which they do not hold to be equal in inspiration with the Law and the Prophets. This is probably because the Psalms were the hymn—book of the temple and were not kept with the Law and the Prophets.

The 119th Psalm is one of seven "alphabetical" Psalms in the book, the others being 25, 34, 37, 111, 112, and 145. The form is carried out more obviously and completely in Psalm 119 than in any of the others, and is an interesting study in itself. The Hebrew words printed above the sections of the Psalm (KJV) are the names of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet in their proper order, and in the original Hebrew each of the eight verses in any given section begins with the letter which heads the section. This very old device of alphabetical form has a sound foundation, as you will see from the quotation from the Apocalypse Revealed at the end of this lesson.

But the spiritual meaning of the letters of the alphabet is beyond our present reach, and we are more immediately concerned with another phase of the Psalm. If you will read it carefully, you will find in every verse some word or words which refer to the Word of the Lord as the law or way of life. You will also find that many of its sections and many of its verses are very familiar to you. This is partly because in the New Church we sometimes sing or read selections from this Psalm, and partly because in it the Word is presented to us in such a variety of brief striking statements that its verses are often memorized and widely quoted. We find in it verses which adequately express our praise of the Lord, our consciousness of our own weakness and failures, our desire to be guided by the Lord, and our sense of rest and peace on coming into the order of the Word. It is a Psalm to which we can go with assurance when we are looking for a strong statement from the Word to help us in meeting some particular temptation. With this in mind read the first section of the Psalm and see how it sets forth the importance of the Word to our well—being and happiness, our constant need of it, and the happy result of learning and keeping its precepts.

In our modern world, into which you are going shortly to make your own way, you will find many who know almost nothing about the Bible and who have no sense of loss from their ignorance. They may seem successful and happy, but a longer acquaintance with them will reveal that their happiness is entirely dependent upon external conditions. Loss of dear ones, loss of money or position, illness, any untoward event may in a moment destroy their security and peace. Often they have no inner steadiness or vision.

This is because strength and peace come from the Lord alone, and our contact with the Lord is in the Word. The Lord is the Word in its inmost. Unless we know the Lord and our relation to Him, our lives are necessarily limited to the material plane, whose pleasures, while very real, are uncertain and fleeting. If we do read the Word and come to know the nature of God, His order, and the meaning and purpose of life, we can enjoy the pleasures of the natural world even more keenly because of our gratitude to Him for them, and we can accept our bereavements and adversities with equal serenity as opportunities to learn and to grow spiritually.

In the ninth verse of our Psalm we read: "Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to thy word," and in the ninety-eighth verse: "Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me." These are verses which every young person just starting out in the world should memorize and repeat to himself often, and there are many others in the Psalm which should be stored away in our memory for the Lord to call forth for us in time of need. Everyone of us should so live and learn from the Word that we can say from experience: "Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way."

