
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What is a psalm? a song

Primary: How did the Jews use the book of Psalms? hymnal

Primary: Through whom were many of the Psalms written? David

Junior: What did David say about the Psalms? inspired by God

Intermediate: What did the Lord say about them? prophesied about Him

Primary: Which one is the longest of the Psalms? 119th

Junior: What is peculiar about its structure? "alphabetical"

Junior: What is its general subject? the Word

Junior: How is this subject impressed upon us? in every verse

Intermediate: Why should we study the Word? to learn how to live

Junior: Why should we obey its precepts? to find eternal happiness

Senior: Why are some of the Psalms written in alphabetical order? to show they contain a complete summary of a subject

Senior: Where in the Word does its power rest? letter or literal sense

== THE MAJOR PROPHETS — Isaiah 6

What follows is some factual information concerning the four Major Prophets taken from an earlier New Church publication, Our Heavenly Father's Book by William B. Hayden.

Isaiah was the son of Amoz, and lived at Jerusalem, where he had his visions and wrote his prophecies, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. He is supposed to have been born about the thirtieth year of King Uzziah's reign, or about seven hundred and eighty years B.C., and to have survived until the early part of the reign of Manasseh, or to about B.C. six hundred and ninety-five ... His ministry as a prophet extends over a period of about sixty years. At different portions of his career he was contemporary with the prophets (minor) Amos, Hosea, Joel, and Micah ... The book is usually regarded in three grand divisions. 1, The prophecies contained in the first thirty-five chapters. 2, The historical account of King Hezekiah, in chapters xxxvi to xxxix. 3, The series of prophecies beginning with chapter xl and occupying the remainder of the book ... On account of certain allusions in it [this third part] to historical events which happened later than the lifetime of Isaiah, some critics conjecture that this part must have been written and added afterwards by some other author, called by them the "unknown prophet." This however is contrary to the uniform testimony of ancient tradition. It is alleged that these allusions to events then future, were by prophetic prediction. All the references also to it in the New Testament speak of Isaiah as the author of this portion. But to know who the human writer was, is not very important for us.

Jeremiah was the son of Hilkiah, a priest, and was born at Anathoth, in the land of Benjamin, about four miles north of Jerusalem, where his family had landed possessions ... Unlike most of the other prophets, he gives us many particulars of his personal history. His youth was passed in his native town, where, while still quite a young man, he was called to the prophetical office, and where, apparently on account of his Divine call, he was subjected to bitter persecutions ... His first appearance was about one hundred and thirty years after that of Isaiah, and some seventy or more after the latest of Isaiah's prophecies. He exercised his office for a period of about forty-one years in his native land, under five successive kings of Judah — Josiah, Jehoahaz, Jehoiakim, Jehoiachin, and Zedekiah - and after that, late in life, he prophesied in Egypt.

Ezekiel was carried into captivity with Jehoiachin and the chief of the people, in the eleventh year before the destruction of Jerusalem, B.C. 599, into Mesopotamia, where the captives formed a colony by the River Chaboras (Chebar), a branch of the Euphrates. He had a house at Tel—abib, and was married. In the fifth year of his exile he began to prophesy, B.C. 593, and continued in that office till at least the sixteenth year after the destruction of Jerusalem, or upwards of twenty-two years. He was highly esteemed by his companions in exile, and the elders of the people applied to him for counsel. How long he survived, is uncertain. There is reason to believe that he did not continue all his life at the original place of exile, but removed, towards the close of it, to his fellow countrymen in the Province of Babylon, where he probably died a natural death. In the middle ages his tomb was still shown at Kefel, some distance from Baghdad, and visited by numbers of Jews and Christians ... He was in part contemporary with Daniel.

Daniel belonged to the royal family of Judah, being one "of the king's seed and of the princes" whom Nebuchadnezzar carried captive to Babylon the third year of King Jehoiachim, 604 B.C. ... He was the only Hebrew prophet who attained great worldly prosperity. His great powers, spotless life, and peculiar gifts, won him the royal favor, which he retained under successive monarchs.

