
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The outline of the general content of the book of Revelation will be helpful to the Adults. It is hard to see the outline for oneself amid the multiplicity of details. The opening vision should be discussed as teaching the primary doctrine on which the New Church is founded.

---
Under divine providence the apostle John was permitted to live out a long life, and in his old age the wonderful vision recorded in the book of Revelation was given through him to the world. It was given on the island of Patmos, to which John had been exiled — possibly during the persecution of the Christians under Emperor Domitian in A.D. 95, John being about ninety years old at that time. We are told plainly in the first chapter that it is a vision seen in the spiritual world - "I was in the spirit on the Lord's day" — and that it is a vision of the state of the church and of what was to come in the future. Swedenborg says (@AE 5) that it treats of the state of the church "in the last times" just before the Last Judgment rather than of the history of the church from its beginning.

Although theologians and others throughout the history of the Christian Church have attempted to interpret and to explain and to apply these visions, the law of correspondence revealed through Swedenborg is the only key to a consistent interpretation. Reverent readers of the Word have always felt their power, and young children love to hear them read, but no one before the Second Coming was able to make any intelligent use of them. We should clearly recognize and be thankful for the fact that "now it is permitted to enter intellectually into the mysteries of faith." We may think of these visions of John, as of those of the Old Testament prophets, as dramas, vast symbolic living pictures enacted in the spiritual world for the instruction and enlightenment of angels and men. The particular prophet is a chosen witness by means of whom the essential features of the drama may be recorded and transmitted to men on earth and preserved in the ultimates of earthly language. The literal details of these visions are powerful and striking, and when we attempt to visualize them for ourselves, they deeply affect the mind. But their ultimate value is in their symbolic meaning. And the Lord in these latter days has made it possible for us to know surely that meaning.

The book of Revelation is a picture of the spiritual forces which were at work even from the beginning of the Christian Church, of the conflict between good and evil, truth and falsity, angels and devils, of the Lord's permission of the evil until its consequences should be plainly seen — as the tares in the parable were allowed to grow along with the wheat until the harvest — and of the final triumph of good and truth and the descent of the holy city New Jerusalem upon the earth. After the opening vision we have the messages to the seven churches in Asia Minor, of which John was doubtless the recognized head. Under the names of these churches all types of acceptance and rejection of the Lord's truth are described, the specific rewards of each type of acceptance shown, and the specific dangers of each type of rejection. Then under the symbols of the throne, the sealed book, and the Lamb, we are shown how the Lord's providence directs the spiritual course of the world through the Word, at first closed and then gradually opened. Then we see how the opening of the Word searches the hearts and minds of men, revealing deeper and deeper evils, how the forces of falsity and evil — under the representation of the dragon and the beast — war against the Lord and the angels for the possession of men's souls, how they are permitted to appear to triumph, but how the good, who in the Lord's strength fight against and overcome their temptations, are preserved, and the New Church, which is born in the midst of the conflict, is saved, and the Lord's kingdom finally prevails throughout the earth.

The book of Revelation has been called "the charter of the New Church" because it prophesies its establishment. Coming to it, as we do, at the close of our study of the whole course of the Word, we should be able to recognize it as the crown of the Word, the culmination of human history, the final act in the great drama of man's spiritual development both as a race and as an individual. Very little can be done with it in the time allotted to it in our course. We can study it for ourselves with the help of Swedenborg's Apocalypse Revealed and Apocalypse Explained and draw more and more illumination and inspiration from it.

This first chapter gives us the wonderful picture of the Lord Jesus Christ reigning. John recognizes Him as the "Son of man," the master he knew in the world, and the Lord declares Himself to be "he that liveth and was dead," but also says plainly, "I am the first and the last." Thus the book opens with the identification of the Lord Jesus Christ as the eternal God of heaven and earth.

Many before John had had visions of the Lord beginning, we recall, with Moses and the seventy elders (Exodus 24:9-10). All these visions are characterized by the appearance of brightness or fire and usually by the specific mention of the human form of the Lord (Ezekiel 1:26-28). The fire and the brightness are symbols of divine love and wisdom. The Lord has always made it clear that we are to think of Him as a divine man. Swedenborg says He is actually the only man, that He is "Very Man" [ipse homo]. But it was not until after the Lord's life on earth that, because He had ultimated His divine human, a vision could be granted whose details could be recorded more specifically. This is the picture of the Lord which He wishes us to hold in our minds. We should study and think about this picture instead of any of the imaginary and strictly finite representations which the artists of various periods have conceived. People often say, "How shall I think of the Lord? What picture of Him shall I have in my mind when I pray to Him?" John's vision is the Lord's answer to this question. If we have any less definite picture, He will not seem to us a real person; if we have any more ordinary picture we shall have no feeling of His glory and power.

The very fact that there are some details in the picture which we find it difficult to imagine and which would be impossible to put on canvas helps to lift our thought of the Lord above His finite humanity to the glorified divine humanity. To understand the meaning of the vision each of us must study it for himself, recalling correspondences already familiar: garments symbolize truth, gold love, the head the directing intelligence which extends to the hairs, its outmost applications; white signifies purity, the eyes understanding, fire love, the feet the outward conduct, brass or bronze natural good, the voice like the sound of many waters "the Divine truth in ultimates" or divine truth as it comes to us, the stars knowledges of spiritual things, the two—edged sword divine truth attacking evil and falsity and defending goodness, the countenance the expression of the interior character, the sun divine love and wisdom, the lampstands the church on earth, whose office it is to receive and transmit divine truth to mankind. Swedenborg in both the Apocalypse Explained and the Apocalypse Revealed gives pages to the interpretation of these few verses. Yet the vision itself may be read in a minute and memorized in a short time, and one will then have in his mind a true concept of the Lord, given by the Lord Himself, which will direct and enlighten all His thought about the Lord and fill his everyday life with meaning and purpose.

