
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Tell this class more about how the apostles, after the Lord left them, obeyed His command and went out into the world to found the Christian church. Tell them something about the persecution of the early Christians and how much John needed the encouragement of this vision. Remind them of the correspondence of light, and tell them that every detail of the vision has a beautiful correspondence which they will study when they are a little older. Impress upon them also that this vision is for us, too, and that we should think of the Lord in this way.

---
What three disciples had seen the Lord transfigured?

Many years later John had another wonderful vision of the Lord.

It was nearly sixty years after the Lord's crucifixion, resurrection, and ascension. John was the only one of the twelve apostles still living, and he was a very old man. Jerusalem and the temple had been destroyed by the Romans some years before and the Christians had been scattered through Asia Minor and even farther away. The first Christian churches had been organized in Asia Minor. John was the leader of the church at Ephesus, and probably had supervision over the other churches in that area.

But now the Christians were being persecuted, and John had been banished to the little island of Patmos out in the Aegean Sea twenty-four miles west of the coast of Asia Minor. One Bible dictionary tells us that the island is divided into two parts and says:

"On the hill to the south, crowning a commanding height is the celebrated monastery which bears the name of 'John the Divine.' Halfway up the ascent is the cave or grotto where tradition says that St. John received the Revelation."

On what day of the week was the vision given to John?

John was "in the spirit." That is, his spiritual eyes and ears were opened to see and hear things in the spiritual world. He was prepared for the vision by hearing a great voice "as of a trumpet," which seemed to come from behind him so that he had to turn toward the voice. We have to turn toward the Lord with our minds before He can instruct us.

What was the first thing the voice said to John?

Alpha and omega are the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. We often see these letters on chancel furniture in churches.

The vision showed John immediately that the person he had known as Jesus Christ was really God Himself. Swedenborg tells us that no one can enter the heavens who does not recognize Jesus Christ as the only God of heaven and earth, but that good people who have not learned this before they die can be instructed in the other world. It is much better for us, of course, to know it now, because so we can base our lives on the real truth about God.

What was John told to do with the vision?

What did he see around the Lord?

How was the Lord dressed?

What was His voice like?

What did He hold in His right hand?

What went out of His mouth?

What did the seven lampstands picture?

What did the seven stars picture?

Every true church is like a lampstand upholding the truth which gives light to the world. You remember the word angel means "messenger." John was given messages for the seven churches in Asia Minor. He had already been the Lord's messenger in bringing to the people there the good news — or Gospel — of the Lord's coming as their savior. Each one of us can be a messenger of the Lord, if we try to learn all we can from Him and live as He wants us to live. If we are His messengers here, we shall be angels when we go into the other world.

