
=== Senior

The special lesson for the Seniors is the importance of the book of Revelation for the New Church, and of this opening vision of the Lord for our concept of Him. Use the details of the vision, in their spiritual sense, to clarify this concept and to stimulate thought about the Lord.

---
The book of Revelation has been called "the charter of the New Church." It is the strictly prophetic part of the New Testament and treats in all its details of the final dispensation of the Lord's truth which accomplishes the Last Judgment and establishes the Lord's true church, symbolized by the holy city New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven.

The book of Revelation could not be understood in the light given to the first Christian Church era. All sorts of strange and conflicting interpretations of it were given. Only the opening of the Word in the Second Coming of the Lord has made it intelligible. In the light of the doctrine of correspondence it becomes a marvelous study.

It begins with John's vision of the Lord, and the picture given in our lesson for today is as near as we can come to a true picture of the Lord which we may hold before our minds when we worship. He is, as John saw Him to be, in the human form, the Christ of the Gospels, and yet so resplendent in glory that there can be no lingering thought of Him as a mere historic name, a finite man like ourselves. We see Him as God, the alpha and omega, the I AM.

The foundation of every church is its doctrine of the Lord. All its other doctrines grow out of this and the quality of life depends upon it. In the New Church the Lord means to us Jesus Christ always. Swedenborg tells us that "throughout all heaven no other than the Lord alone is acknowledged as the God of heaven" (@HH 2). The Old Testament prophesied that Jehovah Himself would come into the world, and the Lord, when He was in the world, said: "He that hath seen me hath seen the Father." Now He declared it to John in the words, "I am the first and the last." While the Lord was in the world it was necessary, in order that He might meet and overcome temptations, for Him much of the time to feel Himself to be a man like other men, and thus to look to the Divine as above Him, as His Father rather than as His own indwelling soul, for had He always felt Himself to be God, temptation could not have touched Him. The language of the trinity — Father, Son, and Holy Spirit — was necessitated by this fact. It has confused the men of the church, although even the letter of the Gospel should have shown them that the separation was only an apparent and temporary one, and that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are but three aspects of one and the same person. Every New Churchman should think this problem through for himself and be sure he understands it, for only in this way can he present his belief to others clearly.

Jesus Christ is God in the flesh, Jehovah come into the world to show us how this life of ours should and can be lived, and to disclose Himself to us as our friend and companion as well as our Father and our God. It is as if a king, finding himself misrepresented by his ministers and misjudged by his people, should put on the clothes of a workman and live for a time incognito among his subjects so that they might really come to know and understand him. This is not by any means all the purpose and work of the incarnation, but it is perhaps its simplest aspect. We can really know God only if we know Him as Jesus Christ. John's vision assures us that His return to the Father meant simply returning to His own eternal glory by putting off the finite clothing which had been necessary to His work on earth. In the vision John saw Him reigning in the heavens, but recognized Him as the master and friend whom he had known on earth.

The correspondence of the details of the vision as recorded in the Word shows us the various aspects of divine love and wisdom. We can go far, with the help of the writings, in studying each detail. Yet we need frequently to imagine for ourselves the vision as a whole, to think of ourselves as falling at the Lord's feet with John, and hearing the Lord's voice "as the sound of many waters" saying to us: "Fear not; I am the first and the last." We need to realize that we are of His church, with a golden lampstand to uphold which draws its light from one of the stars in His right hand. His messages to the seven churches are spoken to us. The sealed book of which we read in the fifth chapter is the very Word which He has given us, and the judgment which, in the rest of the book of Revelation, follows the opening of the seals goes on in us as we accept or reject its inner truths. It is for us to say whether we shall be cast into the lake of fire or lifted up to enter the gates of the Holy City.

This vision is not just something which one man saw centuries ago. It is something eternally real and present, to be seen by our spiritual eyes today so that we may examine ourselves in its light and take our stand on the side of the angels in the affairs of our everyday life. The great voice "as of a trumpet" is calling us to turn and listen.

