
=== Adult

The effort has been made in the Adult notes to give a constructive basis for the discussion of the first parable, which bothers many people. There are three current falsities which the chapter exposes clearly: (1) that man is inherently good and can shift the responsibility for his misdeeds to his environment and to other people; (2) that, since man can claim no merit for anything he does, all he can do is acknowledge the Lord as his savior, and therefore that he can throw himself on the divine mercy without living a good life; (3) that the Lord will somehow be able to save everyone eventually no matter how he has used his life in the world.

---
There are two well—known parables in our chapter for today.

The first is spoken to the disciples and the second to the Pharisees, but both teach the same lesson: "Ye cannot serve God and mammon." The emphasis in the two is different. In the first it is on what we may do while we are still in this world when we find that we have been serving mammon. In the other it is a stern warning that we must make our choice of master here, for the results are eternal. We might note that verse 13 - as well as Matthew 6:24 - should read "two lords" instead of "two masters." The Greek word is the same as that translated "lord" in John 13:13, where both master and lord are used, and Swedenborg tells us (@AC 9167[2]) that master is predicated of truth and lord of good. So the verse really means not "Ye cannot serve truth and falsity" but "Ye cannot serve good and evil."

Good people have often been puzzled and troubled by the parable of the unjust steward. The master in the parable commends what seems to be rank dishonesty, and the Lord advises the "children of light" to take a lesson in this instance from the "children of this world," and to make themselves friends of the "mammon of unrighteousness." Mammon is from an Aramaic word meaning "riches." It is used in the Bible to cover all forms of possessions — money, learning, social position — which men may acquire and which so commonly lead them into self-satisfaction and contempt for others.

In giving this parable the Lord was speaking to all of us who claim to be His disciples. For every one of us is His steward. All our possessions, all our abilities, our knowledge, our responsibilities and opportunities are given us by the Lord to use in His service. And we know that everyone of us is in some degree an unfaithful steward who has wasted his Lord's goods, using them selfishly instead of for the advancement of the Lord's kingdom on earth. From time to time, like the steward in the parable, we are brought up short and faced with our own unworthiness. The steward's words to himself in verse 3 are an interesting condemnation of the two "ways out" — both wrong — upon which Christian people have sometimes relied for salvation. "I cannot dig" — the idea that man is inherently good is false. "To beg I am ashamed" — it is unworthy of our human endowment to fall back on the Lord's mercy and think there is nothing we need do toward repaying our debt to Him. The steward's decision is — under the circumstances of the misuse we have already made of our Lord's goods — the only wise one. His lord's debtors, whom he called in, represent all our abilities which should serve the Lord. The hundred measures of oil and wheat which they owe represent the full amount of love and goodness which in the beginning might have been produced by their means. The fifty and fourscore (eighty) measures represent all that we now find ourselves able to procure with them. In other words, our duty is to recognize and acknowledge that we owe everything we have to the Lord. and to determine from this time forth to do all we can to correct our past shortcomings and serve the Lord wholly. We cannot go on trying to serve God and mammon.

This is not an easy decision to make, but the second parable teaches us that it is a decision which must not be put off. We have seen that there are various kinds of riches — worldly possessions, natural learning, knowledges of spiritual things. All these may be used in the Lord's service or in the service of self. The Pharisees and scribes had all three kinds and used them all for the service of self. They thought of themselves as rich and better than others because of their knowledge of the Scriptures as well as because of their worldly riches. It was of them and of all like them that the Lord said: "How hard it is for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God" (Mark 10:24). To these are opposed the "poor in spirit," those who recognize their own lack of knowledge and goodness and look to the Lord for help. In the second parable the rich man represents the Pharisees and all who, like them, feel that they do not need to be forgiven and taught by the Lord. The beggar Lazarus, whose name means "whom God helps," represents all those who feel themselves spiritually poor and weak and who "hunger and thirst after righteousness." The purple and fine linen in which the rich man was clothed picture the knowledges of good and truth which he possessed. The sores of Lazarus are the external evils into which we fall for lack of knowledge of what is right, the dogs which licked his sores the efforts of the merely natural good impulses to correct our outward conduct. There are many passages in the writings which explain these details. See @AC 9231[3], 9467[5]; @HH 365; @TCR 215; @DSS 40.

The rich man did not go to hell because of his material riches, but because his whole enjoyment was in worldly and selfish satisfactions. Lazarus did not go to heaven because of his material poverty, but because he longed for even a little knowledge of how to be good — the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table. The great gulf that was fixed between the two in the other world was a spiritual gulf. In @AC 10187 we are told that those in evils cannot stand the sphere of good. The Lord does not fix the great gulf. We fix it ourselves by the kind of life we have cultivated in this world. If we so live here that our whole delight comes to be in the satisfactions which we can get for ourselves, we shall find no more delight in heaven than we found in unselfish goodness here. If we have ever tried to speak of the Lord and the Word or even to give a little friendly advice to one bent upon having his own selfish way in some matter, we know how impossible it would have been for Lazarus to carry even a drop of pure water across the gulf to the rich man in hell. When we tell someone that in the other life people can go where they want to go, the immediate response is, "But then, of course, everyone will go to heaven." But the evil will not want to go to heaven any more there than they do here. They would not enjoy the company of angels any more than they enjoy the company of heavenly people in this world. The gulf is fixed in them. They have formed in themselves no capacity for enjoying the things of heaven. The only delights they enjoy are those they find in hell.

Many people think, as did the rich man in the parable, that we could be shown by miracles the realities of the other life, and that the Lord should so convince us. Swedenborg tells us very plainly in @AC 7290, as well as in other places, both the reason why miracles were performed in the Lord's time and the reason why they are not orderly today. The Lord has given us the Word. Anyone who goes to it with the sincere desire to be instructed will learn from it the way to heaven. If we do not learn from the Word, it is because we do not choose to have our selfish desires crossed by the Lord's laws, because we want to go our own way. And if this selfish desire is in our hearts, we shall reject everything which opposes it.

