
=== Intermediate

The general meaning of the two parables offers enough material for the teacher this time without too much attention to the particular correspondences, although some of these have been given.

The two parables of our lesson today both teach the truth of the Lord's words, "No man can serve two masters ... Ye cannot serve God and mammon." Mammon means "riches" and is used to cover all the things we want selfishly.

The parable of the unjust steward has puzzled many people because in it the master commends the steward for doing what seems to us dishonest. But we see it in a different light when we realize that each one of us in the Lord's sight is an unjust steward who has wasted his Lord's goods, for everything we have comes from the Lord and is really His, given us to use in His service, and many times we have tried to serve self as well as the Lord, and we owe the Lord more than we can ever pay. What shall we do? We cannot live without what the Lord gives us, and we should be ashamed merely to beg the Lord to forgive us without trying to do anything ourselves about our debt. The Lord tells us in the parable that we act wisely if we do the best we can, once we recognize and acknowledge our shortcomings. The hundred measures of oil and of wheat mean all we owe the Lord of love and good deeds. The fifty and the fourscore (eighty) measures picture the fullest possible payment that we can actually make. The lesson is that when we have done wrong, we should admit it, undo as much of the wrong as possible, and go on from there, determined to do better in the future.

In the second parable the rich man — often referred to as Dives, from a Latin word meaning "rich" — represents those who have plenty of knowledge of goodness and truth but are satisfied with themselves and make no good use of their riches. The beggar Lazarus represents those who have little true knowledge and who may consequently live outwardly unlovely lives, but who are open-minded and eagerly receive even crumbs of truth from the Lord's table, making use of every bit they do receive. Dogs usually have a bad correspondence in the Word, because they represent our natural desires, which are usually selfish. Here, however, they are used in a good sense, and picture such natural tendencies to kindness and helpfulness as we may have, which can go some way toward making up for the evils we commit through ignorance.

In the other world, where we live inside out, the self-satisfaction and worldliness of the rich man led him to his place in the hells, where his selfishness appeared as a consuming fire - this is hell-fire. But the humility and desire for truth of the beggar led him to find his happiness in heaven. The great gulf is a very real one. It is fixed not by the Lord but by the great difference in the quality of the life each has learned to enjoy.

The essential qualities of a good life are humility and willingness to believe and obey the Lord. We cannot serve ourselves first and serve the Lord at the same time. If we want to think of ourselves first, no miracle or heavenly vision will cause us to change, because we will merely explain it away.

