
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Take up both parables with this class, emphasizing the importance of choosing early in life to serve the Lord instead of self and of sticking to this choice from day to day.

---
Today we have two parables. The first is called the parable of the unjust steward. A steward is a man who takes care of another's property for him.

What did the master learn about his steward?

What did he threaten to do?

What did the steward say he could not do?

What was he ashamed to do?

What did he decide to do to save himself?

Would we consider this a good action?

What did his lord say of his action?

Notice that his lord did not say that he had been a good man, but only that he had acted wisely in collecting as much as he could of his master's debts. We must see that this is not a case of a man who has always done right, but of one who suddenly realizes that he has done wrong. We are all like this steward very often in our lives. We get into careless habits, and suddenly realize that we are in trouble. What is the best thing to do? We can never wholly undo the wrong we have done. Shall we merely say, "I know that I have done wrong and I am sorry, but there is nothing I can do about it"? Or shall we look around and see how much we can do to make up for our misdeeds?

Why do we not always do this? It is because we do not like to admit to others that we have been wrong. We care more about what other people think of us than we do about what the Lord thinks of us. This is what the Lord means when He says, "No servant can serve two masters ... Ye cannot serve God and mammon." Mammon is from an Aramaic word meaning "riches," but it is used in the Bible to mean any of the things we want selfishly.

In the other parable "Abraham's bosom" means heaven, because the people venerated Abraham as the founder of their nation and looked forward to seeing him when they died. The rich man in the parable is sometimes referred to as Dives, which is from a Latin word meaning "rich." There is nothing in the first part of the story which tells us that Dives was a bad man and Lazarus a good one, but we know that the Lord does not mean that one went to hell because he was rich and the other to heaven because he was poor, although people have sometimes thought it meant that. By the poor the Lord always means the "poor in spirit," the humble; and by the rich He means those who are rich in their own self-esteem, as the Pharisees were. Our outward condition in this world does not determine our state in the other life. We are told that the Lord "looketh upon the heart." The rich man in the parable went to hell because he had cared only for his worldly possessions and had not learned to love heavenly things. Lazarus evidently had been a good man even though he had been a beggar. The great gulf that was fixed between them was fixed by the lives they had chosen in the world.

What did the rich man first ask of Abraham?

What did he ask next?

What did Abraham tell him?

The Lord tells us in the Word how we should live, and He wants us to read the Word and see its truth and choose freely to obey Him. This is the only way in which we can learn to love goodness, which is what everyone in heaven does. If a selfish person, who did not want to believe in the Lord and the future life, should see a vision, do you think he would believe it was true? No, he would explain it away as a dream or a hallucination.

Both the parables in our chapter teach us plainly that just as early in life as possible we must make the choice between selfishness and love to the Lord and the neighbor, because we cannot serve self and the Lord at the same time, and our eternal happiness depends upon our choosing to love the Lord and the neighbor.

