
=== Notes for Parents

There are two important parables in our chapter for today, both bringing out the lesson of verse 13: "Ye cannot serve God and mammon." We should know that mammon is from an Aramaic word meaning "riches." It is used in the Bible to mean all the things of the world — money, learning, social position, power — which men and women are likely to want for their own sake.

The Lord gives us all our gifts — our abilities, our material possessions, our place in the family, the community, and the world. All these things are entrusted to us to use for the benefit of everyone, for the advancement of the Lord's kingdom on earth. Every one of us is the Lord's steward, and our various possessions and abilities are the "servants" who owe the Lord their full measure of love and good deeds — the hundred measures of oil and wheat. If we are honest with ourselves, we know that we have not always been faithful stewards. We have often used our means and abilities to serve self instead of the Lord. We can never correct all our shortcomings of the past, never pay our full debt. The steward in the parable, when he was found out, saw three possible courses: to dig, to beg, or to collect as much as was still possible from his lord's servants. To dig is a picture of trying to find some goodness deep within himself on which he could live. Some people like to think they are just naturally good. To beg pictures asking the Lord to forgive us without making any real effort to change our lives. The steward chose the third course, and his master commended him and said he had acted wisely. On the face of it what he did looks dishonest, but it pictures making up as far as we can for the selfish and wrong things we have done and determining to try to hold our position as the Lord's stewards by being more faithful in the future. We make friends of the mammon of unrighteousness when we use all our worldly gifts unselfishly in the service of the Lord and the neighbor. The Lord gave this story of a steward in the world who made a wise choice as an example for the "children of light," who mean all who are really trying to live in the light of truth from the Lord.

And then the Lord gave the Pharisees another parable, because the Pharisees were not willing to admit that they had ever done anything wrong. They considered themselves wiser and better than others, whereas inwardly they were cold and uncharitable and domineering. You recall that the first of the blessings is: "Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven." In the Bible the rich are often condemned and the poor exalted, and we should see that by the rich are meant those who think themselves great, and by the poor are meant the humble—minded.

The parable of the rich man and the beggar Lazarus was given by the Lord to teach us that we must make our choice between God and mammon while we are in this world. This world is our "seed-time," when by our own free choice we give our souls the form according to which they will develop to eternity. We cannot change our ruling love after death. The great gulf between the rich man and Lazarus in the other world was not put there by the Lord but by the two men themselves. The Lord has given us in the Word all the truth we need in order to make our choice. People think sometimes that they would believe in God and heaven if they could see a miracle or a vision, but this is not true. If they did not want to believe, they would scoff at the miracle and the vision and explain them away. "If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead."

