
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The thought of our life as a kingdom which the Lord has given us to manage for Him is a good one to put in little children's minds, as well as the thought that we can never fully make up afterward for wrong things that we do.

---
What is a parable?

Can you tell why the Lord used so many parables?

Can you remember some of the parables we have had in the Gospel of Luke?

Today we have another parable which the Lord told His disciples about a man who had done wrong. The man was a steward. A steward was a trusted servant who managed his master's affairs for him.

In this parable what did the lord learn about his steward?

How did he say he would punish him?

Why could not the steward afford to lose his position?

What did he decide to do?

What did he do for the first of his lord's debtors? What did he do for the second?

He knew that in this way at least part of his debt would be paid. What did his lord think of it?

We see clearly that the steward was not a faithful or an honest man.

Do you know that you are a steward too? The Lord has given each one of us a little kingdom to manage. This kingdom is our own heart and mind and life. The Lord wants us to manage our little kingdom in such a way that the world will be a better and happier place because we live in it. This is the service we owe to Him in return for all that we receive from Him.

The Lord gives us all our abilities and everything we have.

We are supposed to use them faithfully in His service.

Do we ever waste our Lord's goods?

Whenever we do what we know is wrong, we are like the unjust steward.

And the sad part is that we can never fully right the wrong.

But if we will do our best to make up for it, the Lord will forgive us. This is what the parable teaches.

One of the sad things about doing wrong is indeed that we can never fully make up for it afterward. But our story teaches us that we should do the best we can to make up. If we do this, our parents will forgive us, and the Lord will forgive us, too. Only we must try to become more faithful stewards every day, because we cannot serve the Lord truly and be selfish at the same time.

Now read verse 13 of our chapter.

Mammon is from a Chaldee or Aramaic word for "riches."

It is used in the Bible to mean all the things we want selfishly.

So this verse teaches that we cannot serve the Lord and be selfish at the same time.

Let us read another parable which the Lord gave His hearers after this one.

