
=== Senior

The idea of stewardship is important for young people of this age, as is the necessity of making the choice between serving God and serving self. Also discuss the reason why the selfish will not choose to go to heaven when they come into the other world.

On the face of it there seems little relation between the two parables of our chapter; yet the Lord expresses the principal lesson of both in verse 13: "Ye cannot serve God and mammon." Mammon is from an Aramaic word meaning riches, and it sums up all forms of self-aggrandizement.

All we have of goodness and truth, as well as all we have of natural ability and worldly opportunity comes from the Lord. We are His stewards. If we recognize this and use our talents in His service, we are good stewards. If we think of our talents as our own and use them primarily to advance ourselves in the world, we serve mammon. There is no middle course.

In the first parable the steward had used his master's goods for his own ends. But like the prodigal son he finally came to himself and realized the danger of his position. We are all, in one degree or another, guilty of this same sin. We often serve self rather than the Lord. When we realize it, what shall we do? We have nothing in ourselves which will enable us to pay our debt to the Lord — we cannot purchase salvation by our own merit. And we should be ashamed merely to throw ourselves on the Lord's mercy without making some effort of our own. The steward's solution was to call together his master's debtors — who represent our various faculties - and collect from each one as much as he could. We see in the debts of oil and wheat the full measure of love and obedience which we owe to the Lord, and in the fifty and fourscore (eighty) the measure of our limited ability to pay. We do wisely when we pay to the extent of our ability.

In the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, the rich man represents those who have the truth but use it to serve themselves. Lazarus represents those who are lacking in truth but who receive eagerly every crumb of it which comes their way. In other words the rich man served mammon and the beggar served God.

The vivid picture of the eternal results of these two opposite states is also presented. The fires of hell are the burning lusts of self-love, no longer checked by the considerations of outward expediency which were felt in the world. While we are in this world there is always the possibility that we may "come to ourselves." We may do right for the sake of appearance and so come to see that we are happier in doing right and learn to love it. But when the body is laid aside, the ultimates of action which influence our decisions here are gone. Our souls stand forth in the form we have chosen to give them. The great gulf between heaven and hell is fixed by our own life's choice.

The last few verses of the chapter are especially interesting.

People who are unwilling to believe in anything but themselves and what they see around them in the world will sometimes say that they would believe if someone from the other world showed himself to them. But this is not so. Once the vision was over, their only thought would be to explain it away. We believe what we want to believe.

