
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Older Children: To whom did the Lord speak the parable of the unjust steward? His disciples

Younger Children: What had the steward done? wasted his master's goods

Older Children: With what was he threatened? loss of his job

Younger Children: What did he say he could not do? dig

Younger Children: What was he ashamed to do? beg

Older Children: What did he decide to do? take less than what debtors owed

Older Children: What did his lord think of the course he chose? commended him

Younger Teens: What does this parable teach us? recognize our shortcomings, do our best

Younger Children: What does the Lord say about serving two masters? cannot do it

Older Children: What is meant by mammon? riches, things wanted selfishly

Older Children: What did the Pharisees think of this parable? laughed at it

Older Children: What other parable did the Lord give them? rich man and Lazarus

Younger Children: Where did the beggar go when he died? Abraham's bosom (heaven)

Younger Children: Where did the rich man go? hell

Older Children: What did the rich man first ask Abraham to do? send Lazarus with water

Older Children: Why could not Abraham do it? great gulf between

Older Children: What did the rich man then ask? warn my brothers

Older Children: What did Abraham tell him? they have Moses and the prophets

Older Children: What did the rich man think would convince his brothers? if one went from the dead

Older Children: What did Abraham say to this? this would not persuade them

Younger Teens: What does this parable teach us? we decide here what we will be to eternity

Older Teens: How can a course of action which in the letter seems dishonest be called "wise"? wrong to feel oneself inherently good, unworthy to ask for "pure" mercy, thus the only course left is to serve the Lord as best we can

Older Teens: In the second parable who are meant by (1) the rich man, and (2) the beggar?
(1) those who think they are spiritually rich
(2) those who recognize their spiritual poverty and long for righteousness


