
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are several good discussion topics here: the disastrous results of self-confidence, particularly upon our worship; the Lord's preservation in us of our good childhood states; the harm we do to others as well as to ourselves when we neglect or misuse our worship; the meaning of the Lord's words about becoming as a little child; and the difference between the innocence of ignorance and the innocence of wisdom.

---
With the first book of Samuel we come to a new stage in the history of the church or of the person who is trying to live the regenerate life. The wars in the book of Judges picture the various temptations which assail those who have found their home in the Holy Land — that is, who have become settled in the desire and practice of living according to divine laws — but who have allowed themselves to become overconfident and careless and to slip back somewhat into the ways of the world about them. These temptations are both external and internal and they take many forms. We yield to them almost unconsciously at first; they grow upon us until we find ourselves subject to them and find we must take active measures against them. In the book of Judges the state of the people becomes worse and worse until, in the last chapters, the tribe of Benjamin — which represents spiritual or interior truth - becomes perverted and is almost destroyed. So sometimes we allow ourselves to "backslide" through constant yielding to small or subtle temptations until we find ourselves in a bad spiritual state and almost robbed of the sense of the internal meaning of life which makes conjunction with the Lord possible. A new beginning must be made if we are to be saved. We must return for a time to a condition of simple trust and obedience and allow this to lead us to a new peak of spiritual living.

The story of the child Samuel has always been one of the best loved of the Bible stories. The Sower beautifully points out its lesson for parents and children of all time. Parents should realize that all children are loaned to them by the Lord to prepare for His service, and should dedicate them to that service as Hannah dedicated Samuel. Children should see in Samuel a beautiful picture of simple trust and obedience and willing service. There are many similarities also between the early life of Samuel and that of the Lord, even to the expression (1 Samuel 2:26), "And the child Samuel grew on, and was in favor both with the Lord, and also with men." Compare this with Luke 2:52.

But the story has a wider application than that to physical childhood. Our childhood states of innocence, trust, and obedience are covered up as we grow older, but they are not lost. No matter how far we have wandered from them, if we realize the barrenness of our state and look to the Lord as Hannah did for a new birth, promising new consecration, the childhood states can be revived in us and lead us to new developments of spiritual living. This is very plainly told to us by the Lord when He says, "Verily, I say unto you, except ye be converted and become as little children, ye shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven." (Matthew 18:3-4) Samuel's early ministry in the tabernacle is a picture of our return to a humble state of mind, in which we read the Word in simplicity, enter into the services of worship with genuine sincerity, and look to the church for guidance, as Samuel looked to Eli. Then we put ourselves in a state in which the Lord can speak to us and prepare the way for new growth. "And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him" (1 Samuel 3:19).

The picture of the little Samuel is so striking and so touching that the dark background against which it stands out is often overlooked. Eli, the high priest and descendant of Aaron, is an old man and his sight is dim. He has turned over the conduct of the tabernacle worship to his sons, Hophni and Phinehas, who are "sons of Belial" who "knew not the Lord." They profaned the sacrifices of the people by taking more than their due portion of the offerings and by taking it even before sacrifice was made to the Lord. "Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord: for men abhorred the offering of the Lord." (1 Samuel 2:17) Eli is warned by a "man of God" that the priesthood will be taken from his house. He has remonstrated with his sons, but has not exerted his authority to put a stop to their evil practices. He is judged "because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not." This is a picture of a state in which worship is degraded by being used for self-interest and self-exaltation, and when the high priest in us — that inner dictate which relates us to the Lord - does not take steps to correct the evil, although it sees it.* It has become dim of sight and is no longer able to receive directly the voice of the Lord. In 1 Samuel 2:17, quoted above, there is the suggestion of the harm which such a state does to others as well as to ourselves. Many people are turned against the church by the self-seeking and hypocrisy they see in some of its members. Our duty to keep our worship sincere and to live according to the teachings of the church is not for our own salvation alone. The Lord's service requires of us constant watchfulness and ever-renewed devotion. We must be on our guard against the thought that we are "saved" and cannot go astray as others may.

[*This was also clearly the condition of the church when the Lord came into the world, and it is interesting to note that one of the two members of the Sanhedrin who accepted the Lord came from Samuel's birthplace. These two — Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, who like Eli did not "for fear of the Jews" oppose their worldly associates — were simple in heart and able to recognize and cherish the Messiah (John 19:38-42). Arimathea is a later form of Ramathaimzophim. The word means "twin watchtowers," suggesting an ability to lift the thought above the level of the world because goodness is united to truth.]

The Lord, in the letter of the Word, had promised the priesthood to Aaron, and his seed forever. Now He takes it from them. "I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever; but now the Lord saith, Be it far from me; for them that honor me I will honor, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed." (1 Samuel 2:30) This degenerate state of worship is contrasted directly with the simple obedient service of Samuel, to whom the Lord can speak. Samuel's parents, like Mary and Joseph, were among those who made the prescribed pilgrimages to the tabernacle regardless of the corruption of the priesthood. They represent in us the remains of the sincere desire to serve the Lord from which a new beginning must come. In comparison with our more sophisticated worldly attitudes toward the church they are ignorant; but they have the fundamentals of true religion, humility and obedience. In @AC 9325[8] there is an interesting statement of this thought in reference to the church in connection with Hannah's prophecy (1 Samuel 2:5): "By 'the barren' are also signified those who are not in good because not in truths, and yet long for truths that they may be in good; as is the case with the upright nations outside the church; as in [Isaiah 54:1, Psalm 113:7-9, 1 Samuel 2:5]. In the above passages by 'the barren' are meant the Gentiles who are summoned to the church, and to whom the church is transferred when the old church ceases, that is, when those who before had been of the church are no longer in faith, because in no charity ... 'To bear seven' denotes to be regenerated to the full."

All the beautiful stories of children throughout the Bible teach this same lesson. Humility and obedience are the only means of conjunction with the Lord. "And the Lord appeared again in Shiloh: for the Lord revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the Lord."

