
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The necessity of going to the tabernacle should be stressed with this class, along with the fact that the disorganized state pictured by the book of Judges results in neglect and perversion of worship. Call attention to our reason for passing over the book of Ruth. This is our first opportunity to point out that some books of the Bible, while interesting and valuable, have no continuous internal meaning.

---
The book of Judges appears as a series of almost unrelated stories. This is not hard to understand when we see it as a picture of the time in our lives when we are trying to go our own way without looking to the Lord for direction. Our lives then are just a series of incidents with no apparent pattern or orderly development.

We have passed by the short book which follows the book of Judges in our Bible — the book of Ruth, which is a picture of everyday life in the time of the Judges. It is a beautiful story and worth reading for itself, but our teachings tell us that it has no internal meaning.

With the book of 1 Samuel we suddenly return to the tabernacle.

Joshua 18:1 tells us that the tabernacle was set up at Shiloh in the center of the Holy Land immediately after the completion of the conquest, but in the book of Judges the tabernacle is not once mentioned. In much the same way, people often forget about the church when they are absorbed in their own ideas and activities.

But the Lord, as we have often learned, always preserves deep within us the "remains" of good and truth which have been stored up in our childhood and youth. So in our lesson today we find that the tabernacle is still there at Shiloh in the center of the land. Eli, a descendant of Aaron, is high priest, and a few faithful people, like Elkanah and Hannah, still bring their offerings regularly.

The story of Samuel is a familiar one. It is in itself a beautiful picture of the orderly beginning and development of life. Every child should, like Samuel, be devoted to the Lord even before he is born and be brought early to the church and dedicated to the service of the church. He should be taught to perform willingly the little services of which he is capable. Then he is prepared to hear the voice of the Lord when it speaks to him, and to obey it. There are many things in the story of the little Samuel which remind us of the childhood of the Lord Himself. The Lord was taken to the temple when He was eight days old, "his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover," and when at the age of twelve He went with them, He tarried behind in the temple and talked with the learned men there. Of course the whole story of Samuel, like the rest of the inspired Word, in its inmost sense speaks of the life of the Lord.

Hannah's vow (1 Samuel 1:11) points to the fact that Samuel's life was grounded in obedience to the commandments in their letter, for the hair corresponds to the outmost and, in a prophet, to the letter of the Word. Samson's strength was in his hair and Samson was also a Nazarite. For the law of the Nazarite see Numbers 6:1-21. Because Samuel's use was in the tabernacle, his strength was spiritual strength and was constant, and produced results more important and far-reaching than did Samson's physical victories.

We may perhaps think of Samuel as the Lord speaking to us out of our childhood faith when as adults we finally come to acknowledge our own weakness and need of the Lord's direction. After the confused and disorganized period represented by the time of the Judges, it is this alone which can begin to unify our lives and bring them into order. Samuel was to be the last of the Judges, for he would anoint the first king and later the second, establishing the kingdom. It is the recognition of our need to obey the Lord in simple faith which leads us to adopt higher and higher principles for the guidance of our lives.

Samuel alone of the Judges was recognized by the whole people as the one who spoke for the Lord. The fact that he was devoted to the Lord's service even before his birth and that his call by the Lord came to him when he was very young also clearly indicates that he represents the Lord's voice speaking to us out of our early religious training. The Lord tells us, "Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein." (Luke 18:17)

