
=== Junior

Remind the class of the construction and purpose of the tabernacle and have them look up and read Joshua 18:1. Review the general characteristics of the period of the Judges, and introduce Samuel as the last of the Judges. The class will remember the story of an earlier Judge, Samson, who was also a Nazarite, and should read first Hannah's vow (verse 11) and then the laws for the Nazarite in Numbers 6:1-5. Emphasize Samuel's later greatness.

What book follows the book of Joshua in the Bible?

Who were the Judges?

How was this period different from the earlier ones?

You will notice that we have passed over the book of Ruth. It is a beautiful story of something which happened in the time of the Judges, and you should read it some time, for it tells of the birth of the grandfather of David. But it has no continuous internal meaning to the Lord and to our spiritual development; so we do not study it in Sunday school.

The characteristic of the period of the Judges was that "every man did that which was right in his own eyes" (Judges 17:6). This shows us the reason why the ark and the tabernacle are not once mentioned in the book of Judges. The people were looking to themselves for direction instead of to the Lord. When we think we are wise enough to decide for ourselves what is right and wrong, the Lord and the church seem to drop out of our minds. But they are there all the time hidden deep within our minds and hearts. So we find now that the ark and the tabernacle are still there in the center of the land. Look up Joshua 18:1.

Where had Joshua set up the tabernacle?

Who was the high priest at the time of Samuel's birth? Who had been the first high priest?

Even though most of the people had turned to idol worship and forgotten the Lord, there were still some faithful ones who tried to keep the laws of Moses and who went regularly to the tabernacle to worship. Samuel's parents were such people.

What were their names?

What did Hannah ask of the Lord?

What did Eli think when he saw her praying?

What did Hannah promise to do if her prayer was granted?

How did she keep her promise?

We may well imagine that it was not easy for Hannah to give up the child for whom she had waited so long. Read 1 Samuel 2:1-11, 18-21 to see how she kept in touch with him and how the Lord rewarded her for her faithfulness.

In the book On Holy Ground, William L. Worcester helps to make the story of Samuel very real to us. He says in part:

We must imagine ourselves in Shiloh, "the place of rest," in the tribe of Ephraim, on a little hill with a meadow about it, shut in by higher hills, a little off the line of travel. There are ruins on the hill. At the time of our story a town was here, and in a place by itself stood the tabernacle, the sacred tent which was made at Mount Sinai, according to the pattern shown to Moses in the mount, and was set up at Shiloh by Joshua when the land was conquered.

We remember the tabernacle: its open court with the altar of burnt offering and the laver; its walls of upright planks and its coverings of curtains making the holy place for the table and lamp and altar of incense, and the most holy place for the ark of the commandments. The old priest Eli had care of the tabernacle. He was more than ninety years old and his eyes were dim. Some of the people still came each year to worship, perhaps especially in the spring, at the season of the Passover. But Eli's sons who were priests were not good men and robbed the people of their offerings.

And a little boy helped the old priest at the tabernacle; his hair was long and he wore a linen ephod or vest like a priest. He helped at the altar, and went within the tabernacle to arrange the bread on the table, or to trim the lamp in the morning, or to light it in the evening, so that it would burn bright in the Lord's house all night. While the lamp was burning, Eli and Samuel slept near by, perhaps under the overhanging curtains of the tent. And in the morning Samuel opened the doors or the curtains of the tabernacle to the sunshine.

Samuel was to be a Nazarite. Read Numbers 6:1-5 to see what some of the laws for a Nazarite were. The hair, which is the outmost thing in the human body, pictures the letter of the Bible, which is the outmost of the Word of God. The Nazarites were commanded not to cut their hair or beards as a picture of the fact that anyone who is really devoted to the Lord's service will try to keep every bit of the Law as given in the commandments. Samuel grew up to be completely obedient to the Lord. He was the last and greatest of the Judges: not a warrior like the others, but a priest and a prophet.

