
=== Notes for Parents

The story of the child Samuel is one of the most loved stories in the Old Testament. The longing of his mother for a son and her vow to devote him to the Lord can be understood by every woman, and the obedient, trustful nature of the child appeals to us all. It is a touching and beautiful story.

But often we fail to appreciate it fully because we do not so well know the dark background against which it stands out in the Bible. In our studies of the period of the Judges we saw how quickly the Israelites forgot their God, who had done so much for them, once they had gained the position in the world for which they had longed. The ark and the tabernacle are not once mentioned in the book of Judges. Before Joshua died, he had set up the tabernacle at Shiloh in the center of the land and the people had promised always to serve the Lord. In our chapter for today we find that the tabernacle is still at Shiloh, that there is still a high priest of the line of Aaron, and that at least some of the people still bring sacrifices to the tabernacle regularly. But most of the people have fallen away into the worship of the idols of the land, and even Eli's sons, the assistant priests, have become corrupt.

Can we not see in this a common experience? We are brought up to go to Sunday school and church, but when we leave the control of our parents and establish ourselves in homes of our own, we become absorbed in our daily tasks and responsibilities and drift away from the worship of the Lord from whom all that is good in our lives has come. We think we know enough to live good lives, and it is not until some serious trouble strikes that we realize our actual weakness and need of our Heavenly Father.

What shall we do? Our immediate resort is to the things we were taught and believed in our childhood and to an effort to recapture our simple faith. Samuel appears on the scene. He is not a warrior. He is first an obedient child and later a priest and a prophet. He is the last of the Judges and the only one recognized by the whole people as their appointed leader. It is obvious from the first that the Lord is with him and speaks through him.

So it must be with us. We must turn from our reliance on our own judgment and strength and acknowledge that our only salvation lies in simple trust in the Lord and obedience to His commandments. Hundreds of years after the time of Samuel, the Lord said to His disciples: "Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven."

Samuel was to live to old age and to anoint the first two kings of Israel.

