
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a simple story and easy to tell. The story of Hannah's prayer and vow should be told as an introduction. Then attention should be centered on the tabernacle at Shiloh — the fact that it was still there and that a descendant of Aaron (Eli) was high priest. The children will be interested in the two wives and their differences, and in Hannah's promise.

---
You remember the ark, don't you? It was the gold—covered chest made to hold the two tablets of stone on which the Lord had written the ten commandments with his own finger. And do you remember the tabernacle, or tent, which was made at Mount Sinai to hold the ark and to be the church of the children of Israel?

It is a long time since we have heard of the tabernacle.

At the time of our story today, the tabernacle is set up at Shiloh near the center of the Holy Land.

From the time the people left Mount Sinai, where the commandments were given, the ark and the tabernacle were always in the center of their camp or in the center of their line of march when they were traveling. After they conquered the Holy Land, and before they settled in their homes, Joshua set up the tabernacle at Shiloh, and there it stood for many years. The priests carried on the worship there, and the high priest was always a descendant of Aaron. You remember that Aaron, the brother of Moses, was the first high priest. At the time of our story for today the high priest was an old man named Eli.

The last and greatest of the Judges was Samuel.

He was the only one who was Judge over the whole land. He was also the only one who was a prophet.

Who was Samuel's mother?

How did she happen to come to the tabernacle at Shiloh?

What did she ask the Lord to give her?

What did she promise if her prayer was granted?

Did she keep her promise?

After that, every year when they came to Shiloh to worship, Hannah brought Samuel a new little coat which she had made for him.

Because she kept her promise, the Lord gave her three more sons and two daughters.

Samuel grew up helping Eli in the tabernacle. When he was grown up, he became Judge over all the land; the Lord spoke to the people through him, so he was also a prophet. You should remember him as the last of the Judges.

