
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Emphasis here should be on the transition from the period of the Judges to the period of Kings, with Samuel — our childhood state of innocence and obedience — as the connecting link. Draw the parallel between Samuel's early life and that of the Lord, as suggested in the Adult notes.

---
Samuel was the last of the Judges. His life and work began a new period of unification and development, and it is significant that in the story of his birth we suddenly return to the tabernacle. The ark and the tabernacle are not mentioned once in the book of Judges, but we now find that they are still at Shiloh in the center of the land, where Joshua had set them up, that there is still a high priest of the line of Aaron, that the tabernacle rites are still being carried out, and that there are still some people in the land who come faithfully to the tabernacle to offer sacrifices and to worship the true God. This is true in our lives. So long as we are permitted by the Lord to remain in this world, the possibility of spiritual life is still not entirely dead in us; there are some remains through which we may be reached if we choose. As the Lord said to Elijah many years later, when he was in despair at Horeb (1 Kings 19:18), "Yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him."

But the general face of the situation was that of neglect of the Lord. And even in the priesthood there was corruption. Eli, the high priest, was a good man but weak. His sons, Hophni and Phinehas, who assisted him and would supposedly succeed him, were evil men, robbing the Lord of the offerings brought by the people and committing other evils. The whole situation reminds us of the condition of the church hundreds of years later at the time of the Lord's birth, and there are many things in the story of the little Samuel which clearly image the Lord's childhood.

The two wives of Elkanah, Hannah and Peninnah, recall to us the story of Leah and Rachel, and the still earlier story of Sarah and Hagar. In each case the beloved wife is late in bearing children and the less beloved looks upon her with contempt. We have learned to see in this our own slowness in developing spiritual fruits, and the arrogance of the material part of us with its obvious productivity. But in each case the late fruit of the beloved wife becomes greater than the children who have preceded him in time.

We think of Samuel as representing the beginning of our mature consciousness of our own weakness and need of the Lord. The whole of the ancient Hebrew nation is present in our lives when we come to maturity — all the tendencies to materialism, to the worship of idols of one sort or another, to self-esteem and self-will, to profanation of holy things, to weak acquiescence in the sins of our times and companions. But Samuel is in us, too: the voice of the Lord speaking through our stored—up states of childhood trust and faith and obedience, through the Word planted in our memories in childhood. This is what we have to build on to begin the process of regeneration which is the work of our adult lives. Without this "Samuel state" the lamp of God would indeed go out in all of us (1 Samuel 3:3).

