
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Although the class should be given the correspondence of the specific story concerning Hezekiah, the meaning of Assyria and Babylon and the separate captivities is of more general importance for their understanding of the Bible story as a whole. This can be pointed up by reference to chapter 18 and to Hezekiah's mistake in admitting into his confidence the emissaries from Babylon.

---
Even Elisha was not able to stem the tide of evil in Israel. There were twelve kings after Ahab — all evil kings. When we remember that a king represents a ruling principle, we see that this pictures the fact that Israel — the intellectual part of the man — came to be governed by principles more and more false. Finally Israel was completely overcome by Assyria. In the Bible we read much about three countries: the lands of Israel, Assyria, and Egypt. The Holy Land represents the heavenly character, the religious life of a man; Judah, this life in the heart; and Israel, this life in the mind. We have learned that Egypt represents external memory-knowledges. Assyria represents the rational plane of the mind, the plane where memory-knowledges are thought about and made to serve either the Lord or self. These three "countries" in us should work together in the service of the Lord and the neighbor. They are meant to help each other. In Isaiah 19:23 we read concerning the ideal state of man: "In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians." And the next verses say: "In that day shall Israel be a third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land: Whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance." But during most of the Israelites' history Assyria was one of their two most threatening enemies. It tried to conquer them, just as people today who reason entirely from the things they know of the natural world argue against the Bible and religion. When the mind turns away from worship of the Lord and comes more and more to accept principles developed by men as its rulers, it is false reasoning which finally carries it away completely, as Assyria did Israel.

With Israel gone, Judah was unprotected on the north. That is, when the mind becomes subject to worldly ideas, the good intentions of the heart cannot long stand. But Judah had several good kings who tried to restore worship of the Lord. Hezekiah was one of the best of these. He even destroyed the "high places," which represent self-satisfaction and self-praise, and the brazen serpent made by Moses in the wilderness (Numbers 21:4-9) which, when it had come to be worshiped as an idol, pictures the belief that the sensual (natural affections) can be separated from the spiritual life and allowed to dominate.

Hezekiah also smote the Philistines. We remember that they picture the temptation to be satisfied with knowing what is right without doing it. It is some time since the Philistines have been mentioned in the Bible story, but we now see that they had never been fully conquered. This is an ever-present temptation.

Hezekiah also tried to rebel against the control of Assyria. In other words, the good intent of the heart tries not to be reasoned out of its attachment to the Lord. But it is soon forced to compromise. Chapter 18 tells us how Hezekiah tried to buy off the king of Assyria by giving him the gold and silver of the temple, even to the gold which covered its doors and pillars.

Sometimes a good man, who at heart loves the religion in which he was brought up, is forced little by little to compromise with the principles of the world in which he moves. At least it seems to him that he is forced to do so in order to save anything of goodness in himself. Actually the compromise accomplishes nothing. The attacks of the enemy increase until the issue becomes clear—cut and the man is forced to make a choice between serving God and serving the world. The account of how the prophet Isaiah was sent to advise Hezekiah and of how, because Hezekiah obeyed his advice, the Lord miraculously saved Judah from the Assyrians is told in chapter 19. The Lord can save us from false reasonings if we obey the commandments of His Word.

But Hezekiah fell sick. Everyone, no matter how good, has deep inherited tendencies to evil. Hezekiah's "boil" pictures the breaking out of such a deep-seated evil. The prophet told him, as the Word says, that the disease was fatal. Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall — the protection given him by the Lord — and his humility enabled the Lord to prolong his life. Figs picture the doing of useful works of an external kind which helps us to counteract the poison of internal evils. The turning back of the shadow on the dial pictures the prolonging of our daytimes, our good states, when we are humble (Exodus 20:12).

Then a new country, Babylon, appeared in the story and Hezekiah did not recognize it as an enemy because it came with messages which seemed to be friendly. Babylon represents "the love of dominion from the love of self," that is, the feeling that everyone should do as we tell them to do because we think we are better and wiser than anyone else. When our minds have lost their confidence in the truth which the Lord has revealed, this feeling creeps into our hearts, and we do not see clearly the distinction between good and evil. Then we are likely to accept as "friends" many things which are deeply dangerous.

The beginning of the end had come for Judah. The new enemy gained more and more power and eventually conquered Judah and carried into captivity all of its important people. Only "the poor of the land" were left. The poor always represent the humble in heart who do not set themselves up. Do you know the first of the Blessings (Matthew 5:3)?

