
=== Junior

Use a map to show how, with Israel gone, Judah was open to attack by Assyria and later by Babylon. Stress the meaning of the sign given to Hezekiah. In taking up the last incident in the lesson, point out to them how important it is that we recognize our spiritual enemies and shut them out of our hearts, and that Babylon pictures self-love, particularly the desire to have our own way, a very powerful enemy which we all sometimes fail to recognize as such.

---
Even Elisha could not reform Israel. Conditions there grew steadily worse, and finally the Assyrians were permitted to conquer it. They carried away all the people into the countries to the east, and these people never came back. Many theories have been formed as to what became of their descendants, but nothing is really known. They were probably absorbed gradually into the populations of the lands where they were settled. You may sometimes see them referred to as the "lost tribes." The Assyrians brought people from the eastern lands in their place to settle the Holy Land. Read the account in 2 Kings 17:24-33, 41. The descendants of these strangers were the Samaritans of the New Testament.

The rest of the Old Testament story is about Judah. Several of the kings of Judah were good kings who tried to restore the worship of the Lord. Hezekiah was one of the best of them. We want to notice particularly two of the things he did which are mentioned in chapter 18. Of all the previous good kings it is said, "Nevertheless the high places were not taken away." From earliest times people had been in the habit of worshiping on mountains and hills, or of building up mounds or other high structures for this purpose. The idols were set up on such "high places." But in Deuteronomy 12:10-14 we read the command to the Jews not to set up such places of worship of their own choosing after they should be settled in the Holy Land. This command had been disobeyed. Hezekiah destroyed even these high places. Now read Numbers 21:4-9. This serpent of brass had been carefully preserved for hundreds of years, and the people had come to use it as an idol. Hezekiah destroyed this also. It takes great courage to destroy something which people worship. You remember the story of how the people were ready to kill Gideon when he destroyed their altar to Baal (Judges 6:25-32).

With Israel gone, the kingdom of Judah was unprotected on the north. Assyria, which had captured Israel, threatened Judah also. Hezekiah tried to buy them off with presents, even giving them the silver and gold from the temple, but they were not satisfied. Chapter 19 tells how the Lord sent the prophet Isaiah — the same prophet who gave his name to the book of Isaiah — to tell Hezekiah what he should do, and because Hezekiah obeyed Isaiah, the Lord saved Judah by destroying the army of the Assyrians overnight.

Then Hezekiah fell sick, and Isaiah came to him again.

What did he tell Hezekiah?

What did Hezekiah do about it?

What new message did the Lord give Isaiah for him?

What remedy did he order for Hezekiah?

What sign did Hezekiah ask for?

The dial — more accurately translated "degrees" — of Ahaz is thought to have been a column set up beside a flight of steps so that, as the sun moved, the shadow darkened one step after another. There were no clocks or watches in those days, and people told the time by various types of sundial. Of course the Lord did not make the sun turn back in its course. That would have upset the world completely. But He did make it seem that the shadow had gone back, and this was a sign that Hezekiah's goodness had put off the time when Judah would fall. The Lord does not change. But when we turn from evil to good — which is like our part of the earth turning back toward the sun — the Lord can do things for us which He could not have done otherwise. It seems to us as if the Lord had changed toward us, but it is really we who have changed toward Him.

How many more years of life were granted to Hezekiah?

Hezekiah's prayer opened Hezekiah's mind so that the Lord could help him.

What new country appears in our lesson today?

What did Hezekiah do for the messengers from Babylon?

What did Isaiah tell him?

Judah was finally taken captive by Babylon. Many of its people were carried away as the people of Israel had been, but some were allowed to remain in the Holy Land, and after seventy years all of the captives who wished to return were allowed to do so. They rebuilt the temple at Jerusalem, which had been destroyed by the Babylonians, and their descendants were the Jews of the New Testament and are the Jews of today. But we must note one important thing: the ark had disappeared. It was never brought back.

