
=== Notes for Parents

Our lesson today is about Hezekiah, one of the good kings in Judah, the southern part of the divided kingdom. Hezekiah had tried hard to bring his people back to the worship of the Lord. He had gone further in his reforms than any king before him, but he had a greater handicap than they had had.

We know that Israel, the northern part of the land, had rebelled against the line of Solomon. After that, Judah and Israel were never on good terms with each other, but at least they were people of the same ancestry and tradition. In the early years of Hezekiah's reign in Judah, Israel was conquered by the king of Assyria, and all its people were carried away to lands in the east. They never came back. The king of Assyria sent in people from the east to take their places. Their descendants were the Samaritans of the Gospel story, still despised as foreigners by the Jews even after five hundred years. So with Assyria in possession of Israel, Hezekiah had no protection on the north.

Assyria did try to conquer Judah also, but the Lord saved Judah by a miracle. This story is told in 2 Kings 18.* Then Hezekiah fell sick and was about to die. The story of his prayer to the Lord and of the Lord's answer through the great prophet Isaiah is a simple one. Hezekiah was permitted fifteen more years of life. The life of each of the good kings in Judah prolonged the life of the kingdom of Judah. Every time we acknowledge our evils and try to reform, our spiritual days are lengthened: that is, we have new opportunities for spiritual progress. The sign of the shadow going back on the dial of Ahaz is a picture of this, too. We must not imagine that the Lord turned back the course of the earth with relation to the sun. A spiritual light was given which for a time did away with the shadow. Many of the shadows that seem to hover over our earthly lives disappear when we turn to the Lord for light and help.

[*This story is also told, almost verbatim, in Isaiah 36 ff., and also in substance in 2 Chronicles 32. -Editor]

