
=== Primary

Hezekiah's sickness, Isaiah's first prophecy to him, his prayer, and his healing, make a simple story to tell. If you have time, take up the sign given to Hezekiah. Call the children's attention to the way in which shadows move as the sun crosses the sky. If it is a sunny day, this will be easy to demonstrate by setting something up on a piece of paper in a window at the beginning of the lesson period and marking the shadow it casts, and then showing the children where the shadow is at the end of the period. They can then understand how surprising it would be if the shadow moved back. This will help to fix the story in their minds. Describe the dial (or degrees) of Ahaz and point out why Hezekiah asked that the shadow go back.

What great prophet was sent to Israel?

What prophet succeeded him?

In spite of all Elisha could do, Israel went from bad to worse. Finally the Lord permitted the Assyrians to conquer it.

All the people were carried away captive, and they never came back.

The Assyrians brought in people from the eastern countries to take their place. The Samaritans of the New Testament were the descendants of these foreigners. When Israel was taken captive, Hezekiah was king of Judah.

Hezekiah was one of the good kings of Judah. He tried very hard to bring his people back to the worship of the Lord. He destroyed the idols the people had set up, and he did something which no king before him had done: he "removed the high places." These were mounds on which the people had set their idols. Without the mounds it would be much harder for the people to go back to idol worship.

But Hezekiah became sick. He had a boil, and he was so sick that he was about to die. He wanted to live longer. So he prayed to the Lord.

What did Hezekiah do?

What was Isaiah's second message? What sign did Hezekiah ask?

How was Hezekiah cured?

Did you ever eat figs? The ones we usually have are dried, and so they are quite different from the fruit as it grows on the tree. There are a great many fig trees in the Holy Land, and we often read about them in the Bible. The fig has a great many seeds in it, but we can eat the seeds.

What sign did Hezekiah ask for?

The dial of Ahaz was a sundial, but not like the ones people sometimes have out in their gardens today. It was probably a series of steps with a pole set up near them. As the sun moved, the shadow of the pole moved over the steps, darkening one step after another. This was the king's way of telling the time, for in those days they had no clocks or watches. The shadow always moved in the same direction, of course; so if it were to move backwards, Hezekiah would be sure the Lord was performing a miracle for him. This miracle was a sign that Hezekiah was to have more time to live than he had expected.

Who came to him later pretending to be friends? 

What foolish thing did Hezekiah do?

What did Isaiah tell him?

