
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The same holds true for the Older Teens as for the Intermediates with special emphasis on the last incident named. Young people need to be warned against the subtle beginnings of the love of rule which comes from self-love in the heart.

---
Israel had gone too far astray to be reclaimed. Its kings were all concerned only with their own glory and none of them attempted reforms. Some hundred and fifty years after the time of Elijah, Israel was conquered by Assyria and all its people were carried away captive, never to return. This is a picture of the mind wholly captivated by worldly and naturalistic reasoning. The land was settled by foreigners from the eastern countries whom the Assyrians brought in. Their descendants were the Samaritans of the New Testament story.

With Israel gone, Judah was unprotected. With the mind wholly given over to belief in the supremacy of natural reasoning and no longer accepting revealed truth, the heart becomes a prey to every evil, although "good intentions" persist. Indeed, at the very time when Israel was taken captive, Judah was under the rule of Hezekiah, the best king since Solomon. Even when the mind has ceased to defend revealed truth, there persists stubbornly in the heart a belief in God and a longing for His blessing and protection.

Hezekiah is the first king who is recorded as having removed the "high places," which represent thoughts of self-praise. He also destroyed the brazen serpent, which Moses at the command of the Lord had set up in the wilderness (Numbers 21:4-9) and which had been preserved and come to be worshiped as an idol. The brazen serpent, when it was first set up, pictured the divine sensuous of the Lord, through which power can be given us to overcome our sense temptations. When, however, we misunderstand and abuse the sensuous by making it an object of worship, we have allowed sense pleasures to dominate our lives. This is pictured by burning incense to the serpent. Hezekiah's breaking it in pieces signifies the decision no longer to allow the sensuous to have such a controlling influence.

Because Hezekiah wished to obey the Lord, his people could be saved from the attack of Assyria. Chapter 19 tells this story. The Lord's power is as great today as it ever was. No matter how overwhelming the odds seem, if we will trust in the Lord and look to His Word for direction, the enemy, like the Assyrians, will melt away in the night.

Our chapter for today is a very wonderful chapter picturing the steps by which the good heart, unprotected by an understanding of the truth, must waver between good and evil and gradually degenerate. Humility and simple obedience like Hezekiah's can prolong spiritual health, but with "Israel" gone, "Judah" is open not only to direct attack, which one is able to recognize and resist in the Lord's strength, but to what has been called "infiltration." Without truth in the mind one cannot recognize evil for what it is. This is pictured in the latter part of the chapter.

Babylon represents "the love of dominion from the love of self."

This creeps up on us, often in friendly guise. For example, our friends may praise us. We do not really mean to take credit for our good deeds and various abilities, but the praise is pleasant to our natural self and we open our hearts to it, just as Hezekiah showed the messengers from Babylon all his treasures. The hells know our times of weakness, as the king of Babylon "heard that Hezekiah was sick." The object of the "messengers" is to spy out our treasures with a view to robbing us of them, and often we let them into our hearts without inquiring into their source and intent. We are told in 2 Chronicles 32:25 that after Hezekiah was cured of his illness, "Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done unto him: for his heart was lifted up." This statement is not included in the story as given in the Word, but it gives us another instance of the imperviousness of the people of Bible times which made it possible for the Lord to work miracles among them without affecting their freedom of choice. We need always to remember that without the Lord we are subject to temptation by every sort of evil and cannot always see the temptation involved. We do not fully know our own motives. Only the Lord sees us through and through. We may think we are humble and unselfish, but that very thought is one of self-praise. Babylon, once admitted into Judah, gained in power until it carried Judah away captive.

