
=== Adult

Even with this class it may be necessary to review briefly the story of Jacob's sojourn in Haran and return to the Holy Land. Then speak of the correspondence of the twelve sons and of the meaning of Joseph's being sold into Egypt. Finally ask for comments and questions from the class, and let these determine the further discussion.

---
As Jacob represents the attempt to work out the Lord's teachings on the plane of daily life, his twelve sons represent all the good affections which are developed in the course of this task. We know that our lives are complex. We are constantly reading of psychologists' efforts to analyze our mental and volitional processes. Here in the story of Jacob's twelve sons we can, with the help of Swedenborg, find a complete outline of psychology given us by the Lord Himself. We can distinguish between higher and lower affections in our external life. We know, for instance, that love for friends is a higher affection than love for food, although the latter is a necessary and good affection. We are able to see that affection for the Lord and for heavenly knowledge is the highest of all our affections. The sons of Jacob may be grouped according to their importance, the two sons of Rachel being these highest affections, the sons of Leah the more external affections which lead up to them, and the sons of the handmaids the most external affections which minister to the others. All twelve sons except Benjamin were born in Haran, but Benjamin was born in Canaan.

Our lesson introduces the story of Joseph, one of the most—loved stories in the Bible. Joseph was Jacob's eleventh son — his first by Rachel, the wife he loved best — and consequently he was Jacob's favorite. Jacob made him a coat of many colors. [The Anchor Bible renders this "ornamental tunic" noting that "the traditional 'coat of many colors' and the variant 'coat with sleeves' are sheer guesses from the context." Swedenborg renders it "tunic of various colors" [tunicam variorum colorum] and the editor of the Standard edition notes that "the 'tunic' was the undergarment."] Colors picture the variety of ways in which spiritual truth is made attractive to different people by the Lord. But this singling out of Joseph aroused the jealousy of his brothers, and their ill feeling was increased to the point of hatred by the fact that he told his father of their wrongdoings — as our spiritual perceptions reveal the evils we try to hide — and later they resented the two dreams which likewise set him above them. When Jacob sent Joseph to Shechem to find his brothers and report to him concerning them, the first thing we read is, "And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh." We are all able to recognize that it is the man who dreams who leads others; but in practice many of us are inclined to belittle "idealists" and to try, like Joseph's brothers, to put them aside where they will not interfere with our worldly ambitions. The scribes and Pharisees treated the Lord this way when He came among them and rebuked their evils. We can all see how many points in the story of Joseph foreshadow the life of the Lord. Swedenborg tells us (@AC 4669) that Joseph "signifies the Lord's Divine spiritual Human," and more clearly, "the Divine spiritual which proceeds from His Divine Human" or "the Divine truth which is from Him in heaven and in the church." We should remember that it was as the Divine truth that the Lord came into the world to save the human race.

The story of Joseph is a true story. His brothers really did plot to kill him and finally sold him into slavery in Egypt. But the Lord uses this story to teach us a beautiful, practical lesson. He was with Joseph and turned his very troubles into a means of advancing him and eventually of saving his whole family. Egypt, we recall, represents the plane of memory-knowledge. We need memory-knowledge not only for our life in the world but for our spiritual development as well. And there is a time in our lives when it is especially orderly and appropriate that our attention should be centered upon acquiring it. The instances in the Bible story of "going down into Egypt" for food and for protection are symbolic of this fact. The Lord takes special care of children until they have learned to take care of themselves. He gives us a long childhood because we need so much knowledge in order to face the problems of adult life. When He came into the world, He Himself went down into Egypt to show us that this is an orderly part of our lives, and also as a symbol of what He in His assumed human was learning: the letter of Scripture. We remember how constantly He used quotations from the Scriptures during His ministry. It was all stored in His external memory during His childhood. Swedenborg tells us that truth from the Lord does not flow into our minds and remain there for our use except as we have the vessels for receiving and holding it, which are knowledges of the Word learned in an external way. And the Lord constantly reminds us that if we wish to progress spiritually, we must continue to learn more from the letter of the Word throughout our lives. "Search the Scriptures." We should note that we are not obeying this command when we go to the Word merely to find passages to support our own ideas, or when we read only the passages which we enjoy.

All the stories of the Word relate inmostly to the Lord's life and in their internal sense to the life of each one of us. The twelve sons of Jacob all represent necessary affections, good when properly used; but any of these may be perverted — turned to selfish purposes — just as Joseph's brothers turned against him. When this happens, the Lord makes use of the best things in us to try to save us. Joseph in us is our affection for truth from the Lord, our love of thinking about the Lord and His care over us. This is one of the "remains" stored up in us by the Lord from our innocent childhood states. As Joseph dreamed dreams and later was given the power to interpret them, so when we are thinking about the Lord from genuine affection, worldly things fall into their proper subordinate place; we see above and beyond them, and can understand the reasons for our various experiences.

But very often our more external affections get the better of our Joseph and put him away in the realm of memory-knowledge, where he is at first imprisoned. Even then the Lord works within us to preserve and strengthen Joseph against our time of need. When some experience comes which our worldly principles are unable to explain and in the face of which our worldly affections fail us completely, we are led to the rediscovery of Joseph and find him no longer a weak child, but a mighty ruler under whose protection we may willingly place ourselves.

