
=== Junior

Shechem, the place of Abraham's first altar, appears again here and should be located on a map and impressed on the minds of the class. It is an important place throughout the Bible story. It may also be helpful to turn to Genesis 35, verses 23 to 26, and read the names of the twelve sons of Jacob as a preparation for later lessons. The children will note that Reuben, who persuaded his brothers not to kill Joseph, was Jacob's eldest son. They should learn his name and that of Benjamin the youngest in addition to Joseph. Tell them also that in those days the Lord often taught people through dreams, and that Joseph's two dreams have an inner meaning which they will study when they are older. Stress the Lord's providence in saving Joseph and tell them that we often find, as we grow older, that experiences which at the time we thought very hard were really blessings in disguise.

---
Jacob lived in Haran for twenty years and became rich there. He married the two daughters of his uncle Laban, Leah and Rachel, and had eleven sons and a daughter before he left Haran. The oldest was Reuben and the youngest, Joseph. Then he brought his family back to the land of Canaan, was reconciled to Esau and reunited with his father Isaac. His twelfth son, Benjamin, was born near Bethlehem. Jacob loved Joseph and Benjamin best of his sons because they were the children of Rachel, his favorite wife, who died when Benjamin was born.

At the time of our story for today, Joseph was seventeen.

What did Jacob make for him?

Jacob's preference for Joseph was one reason why his brothers hated him, and there were two other reasons.

What do we learn in verse 2?

What two dreams did Joseph have?

What did both dreams mean?

Where did Jacob send Joseph?

What do you remember about Shechem?

Where did Joseph find his brothers?

Dothan is a little plain not far north of Shechem.

What did the brothers say when they saw Joseph coming?

Does it seem strange that they should have been willing to kill their brother? Aren't we all likely to dislike people who are so different from ourselves that we cannot understand them? Read Matthew 5:21-22 and 1 John 3:15. Every willful murder has its beginning in feelings of jealousy, anger, and hatred in the heart. If we realized how dangerous such feelings are, we should all try harder to put them out of our hearts when they first appear there.

Which brother persuaded the others not to kill Joseph?

What did the others finally do with him?

Whose son was Ishmael, the father of the Ishmaelites?

Ishmael had become a wanderer and a dweller in the wilderness. His descendants became merchantmen, carrying goods in caravans from one part of the world to another.

How much did the Ishmaelites pay for Joseph?

What did they do with him?

To whom was he finally sold?

How did Joseph's brothers conceal their crime?

