
=== Notes for Parents

The story of Joseph is one of the best—known stories in the Bible, and people have always recognized that there are several similarities between it and the story of the Lord's life on earth, for both Joseph and the Lord were carried into Egypt, both were betrayed by those who should have loved them, both were sold for a few pieces of silver, both were always faithful and always forgiving, and both were saviors of their people.

Joseph was Jacob's eleventh son, the first child born to Rachel, Jacob's favorite wife, and the last one born in Haran, where Jacob had been sent to escape the wrath of his brother Esau. Rachel's second child, Benjamin, was born after Jacob had brought his family back to Canaan and been reconciled to Esau. Rachel died when Benjamin was born, and was buried near Bethlehem.

Joseph was different from his older brothers. As the later story shows, they were concerned only with worldly success, but Joseph cared about the things of the spirit and was unselfish. They called him "this dreamer." Often today people who think about the heavenly life are scoffed at by the worldly as dreamers or idealists. But it is the people with ideals who have been the really great men and women of history.

One of the reasons why Joseph's brothers hated him was that he was his father's favorite. Another was that his dreams indicated that he would be greater than they. In the series of patriarchs — Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob — Jacob pictures our state when we are beginning our independent life in the world. His twelve sons stand for all the faculties which we develop that enable us to act as individuals: the ten older sons our practical, worldly abilities, and the two youngest the higher spiritual impulses and thoughts which are our inheritance from our Heavenly Father.

For a long time these higher things in us are put aside, as we busy ourselves with making our way in the world. We sometimes even imagine that they have been killed, as Jacob thought Joseph had been, but the Lord preserves them deep within us, until the experiences of life bring us to a sense of need which only spiritual truth and good can satisfy. Joseph by the abilities he received from the Lord rose out of prison to the place of ruler of Egypt. Later his brothers came to him there for help in time of need.

