
=== Primary

The children should be reminded of the number of sons Jacob had altogether and the name of Joseph, whom Jacob loved best. The gift of the coat and the jealousy of the brothers will be easy for them to understand. Later in the story tell them that it was the Lord who put it into Reuben's heart to save Joseph from death, and that the Lord was preparing Joseph to become a great man and to save his whole family. The moral lesson of the way in which envy of another person grows until it wants to do him real harm is a good one for young children, and not too far from their experience with brothers and sisters and playmates.

---
Jacob stayed in Haran for twenty years, working for his uncle Laban. He married two of Laban's daughters, Leah and Rachel, and became very rich in herds and flocks. Eleven sons were born to him in Haran and another after he came back to the land of Canaan, twelve in all. When he came back, he was still very much afraid of Esau, but he found that Esau, who had also become very rich, had long since forgiven him and was happy to see him again.

Someday you will want to learn the names of Jacob's twelve sons. These were their names, in the order of their birth: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, Asher, Issachar, Zebulun, Joseph, and Benjamin. They also had a sister named Dinah. Perhaps you can remember that the oldest was Reuben and the two youngest Joseph and Benjamin. These two youngest sons were the children of Rachel, who was Jacob's favorite wife. That was one reason why Jacob loved them best, and he especially loved Joseph.

What did Jacob make for Joseph?

Why did the older brothers hate Joseph?

His dreams showed that he was to be greater than they. What did the brothers decide to do?

Who persuaded them not to kill Joseph?

What did they finally do with him?

Who was Ishmael, the father of the Ishmaelites? Where did they take Joseph?

To whom was he sold?

The brothers thought they would never see Joseph again, but the Lord took care of him in Egypt and he became a great man there, and several years later he was able to save his whole family from starving to death. Joseph always obeyed the Lord, and he came to realize that the Lord had permitted the hardships of his boyhood for a good purpose.

