
=== Senior

The most important thought to bring out for the Seniors is the necessity of recognizing that there are relative values in life, and that one of the objectives of our thinking should be to learn to put first things first. Read them Matthew 6:24-34. Joseph and Benjamin represent our desire for "the kingdom of God and his righteousness" and our thought about it, the other sons our desires and thoughts concerning all other needful things. It is natural that these other desires should develop first, while we are learning the necessary worldly knowledge and finding our places in the workaday world. But the Lord in our earliest years has given us a "Joseph," and He preserves this quality deep within us until we feel our spiritual need and can be led to find it again. Show the young people that when they pretend to be sophisticated and are ashamed of being thought religious, they are "selling Joseph into bondage in Egypt."

---
In studying the internal meaning of the Word, one is sometimes puzzled by the apparently endless repetition of the cycle of temptation, transgression, repentance, restoration, and peace. Today we have Jacob reconciled to Esau and once more peacefully settled in Hebron; yet the very next incident is the jealousy among his sons and the selling of Joseph, his favorite, into slavery in Egypt. And the cycle starts all over again.

But is not this exactly our experience throughout life? We recognize an evil in ourselves; with the Lord's help we fight and overcome it; we experience the peace of victory — only to discover a new and deeper temptation waiting to attack. You will sometimes hear older people say, "I seem to myself to grow worse instead of better as the years go on." This is really just as it should be. As one grows in physical strength, harder and harder tasks are entrusted to him; as he grows in spiritual strength, deeper and deeper inner evils are revealed for him to overcome. We cannot overcome all our evils at once. But as we put one behind us, the Lord can show us another, so that our whole life may be a forward progress step by step up the heavenly way.

Jacob represents the natural plane of our life, especially the period when we are finding our independent place in the world and adjusting ourselves to the demands of earning a living and establishing a new home and family in society. Jacob's settlement in the Holy Land with the new name of Israel (Genesis 32:38) represents our determination that our life and our home shall be godly and not merely worldly.

Still our desire to do right may have many motives within it, and these motives — represented by the twelve sons of Jacob — are not always harmonious. Joseph and Benjamin, our love for and understanding of spiritual things, we recognize as our highest and most mature qualities. "Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age." But our lower interests are opposed to what is spiritual in us even to the point of trying to destroy it.

Joseph had dreams and visions. Our spiritual nature centers about internal rather than worldly values, and the worldly part of us makes fun of anything which cannot be perceived through the physical senses. If we think of Joseph as the deep-seated religious impulse which every one of us has from the Lord, we can see in our own experience and in that of our acquaintances how worldly desires seek first to destroy it, then to bury it, and finally dispose of it by relegating it to the realm of childhood experience, part of our necessary knowledge but no longer essential to our life. You will even hear people say, "It is a good thing for children to go to Sunday school; it helps them to form good habits; but of course they will outgrow a lot of the things they are taught." This is Joseph sold into Egypt for twenty pieces of silver.

But it was fortunate for the worldly brothers that Joseph was not really dead. As we all know, the time came when their very life depended on him. As the Lord preserved Joseph and endowed him with abilities which brought him into a place of authority in Egypt, so He preserves the "remains" of our early spiritual states deep within us against the time when the worldly principles which we have adopted prove to be wholly inadequate in the face of some bereavement or failure or other deep loss.

Swedenborg in the Arcana Coelestia develops the meaning of this story of Joseph principally in its inmost sense, in which it treats of the Lord Himself. The quotation at the end of this lesson gives us the key to this sense in the meaning of Joseph.

