
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
While the correspondence of the details of the miracle should be taken up, because some of the class may not know the meaning of even this very familiar story, the most fruitful topic for discussion may well be the reason for the sequence of events as arranged by the Lord in this chapter, because the introduction of the Herod story seems in the letter almost entirely unrelated to the rest of the chapter. The context in which any Bible story appears is always extremely interesting and important.

---
The miracle about which our lesson today centers — the feeding of the five thousand — is the only one of the Lord's miracles which is narrated in all four Gospels. In addition, a similar miracle, the feeding of the four thousand, is described in Matthew 15:32-39 and in Mark 8:1-9. Some commentators have considered the second miracle an interpolation on the ground of its similarity to the first, but there is no warrant for this, especially in view of the Lord's own reference to the two as separate miracles in Matthew 16:9-10. Every one of the Lord's acts which is recorded in the Word has its own special significance. In this case the difference in numbers gives an immediate clue to the difference in meaning, and a comparison of the details of the miracles makes a rewarding study.

But our thought today may be concerned with the basic meaning of this miracle and the reason for the particular sequence in which it appears in the Gospel of Mark. We recognize readily that the Lord's feeding of the multitude by the multiplication of a small supply of food pictures the Lord's power to increase whatever small store of goodness and truth each of us possesses as we look to Him for spiritual understanding and strength. The number five, which is the striking number in this miracle, signifies "a little" but also, considered as a factor in ten, a hundred, a thousand, etc., it signifies "much." That is, it expresses something, in itself small, which is capable of great development. So we have here the five loaves made to feed five thousand people. The loaves, made of ground grain, represent goodness in the life. John speaks of them as "barley loaves," which suggests that the goodness is of a natural rather than of a spiritual quality. The fishes represent affection for natural knowledges and the fact that there were two means that the knowledges are desired for the sake of use. The fact that twelve baskets of fragments were gathered up after the meal suggests that when we use in our lives the goodness and truth which we receive from the Lord in response to our prayer, "Give us this day our daily bread," we always see that there is much more there than we can immediately understand and apply to life — enough more to meet every need we can ever have, twelve meaning all. The seating of the multitude "by companies upon the green grass ... in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties" pictures our need of taking time for orderly consideration of what the Lord has to give us, with the basic thought of our everyday problems — the green grass — but recognizing that spiritual states are involved so far as we are capable of responding to His influx — the hundreds and fifties. The multitude represent all the complex and heterogeneous collection of thoughts and feelings of which each of us is conscious in himself. The disciples who brought the loaves and fishes to the Lord and passed them out as He multiplied them, are our higher faculties which have become capable of recognizing and specifically serving the Lord.

With this thought in mind of the meaning of the miracle, let us look for a moment at the background against which it appears in our chapter, and at its immediate results, for these are present in us, also.

First there is the Lord's visit to His "own country," to Nazareth, and His rejection there because of the inability of the people to believe that He could be different from themselves. In our personal experience this is perhaps best illustrated by our tendency to cling to childish concepts of the Lord: the babe in Bethlehem, the child in the carpenter shop in Nazareth, the man hanging on the cross, trying to visualize the Lord's earthly life and react to what our own imagination creates in this way. We must learn to think of the glorified Christ instead of the historical figure. The angel at the tomb said, "Why seek ye the living among the dead?" Also, we remember that when Mary Magdalene finally recognized Him, His immediate command was (John 20:17), "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father." He had to rise in her thought as well as in fact.

Resuming now our consideration of the narrative: Then the disciples were sent out by the Lord by twos to preach and heal in His name, and were told not to take money, or food, or extra clothing, but to trust for their maintenance to those who would receive them willingly. This teaches us that even those higher faculties in us which acknowledge the Lord and serve Him are to take no credit to themselves and to put no reliance on their own powers, but to trust in the Lord for knowledge and power, and not to try to buy or force reception where it is not freely offered. Here is a lesson, too, in the manner of our missionary efforts. To go by twos is to use both love and wisdom in our approach, and we must always keep in mind that the message we bear is the Lord's, not to be tampered with by our own intelligence, and that there will be those who will welcome it and those who will reject it. This applies equally to certain areas in our own lives. We all receive the Lord's truth gladly in some fields of our thought and action, and reject it in others.

So it is not by accident that the story of the death of John the Baptist is introduced at this point, for the spiritual counterparts of Herod and Herodias are the two greatest obstacles in the way of our spiritual development. This Herod was the son of the Herod who was on the throne when the Lord was born. The Herods were Idumaeans, descendants of Esau. The Idumaeans had adopted the Jewish religion for the purpose of gaining control of the nation. Herod therefore represents the principle of self-interest at work in the mind, making use of the things of religion for selfish ends; and Herodias is the self-love in the heart which is the consort and the moving spirit behind that principle. Herod could recognize John as a prophet and hear him gladly and obey him in many things (verse 20), but when John pointed out the evil of self-love, Herod put him in prison. Self-interest recognizes the value of an orderly life and an appearance of religion, but will not listen to any deeper prompting. And self-love itself hates all restraints and is constantly trying to remove them. Herod and Herodias are in each one of us. We know how, when we are facing any decision, considerations of self-interest inevitably come into our minds, and we all struggle constantly with our natural selfish impulses. Self-interest recognizes the power of religion and fears it. Self-love merely seeks to destroy it.

Our chapter shows us how slow we are to learn even by experience. After the feeding of the five thousand, the Lord went into a mountain to pray after sending the disciples in a ship across the Sea of Galilee. We have to go back into the world of everyday affairs. The Lord seems to withdraw and leave us alone. Our minds, like the Sea of Galilee, are subject to contrary winds and we seem to be getting nowhere. Like the disciples we are prone to forget even recent experiences of the Lord's power (verse 52). The Lord has to manifest it to us all over again, walking to us across the troubled sea of our memories and entering again to calm the winds and bring us safely to shore (cf. @AE 514[22]). The order of regeneration is by means of one temptation after another, and it is helpful to remember that "in temptations apparently man is left to himself alone, although he is not; for God is then most nearly present in man's inmosts and sustains him; therefore when man conquers in temptation he is inmostly conjoined with God." (@TCR 126)

