
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The principal lesson for this class is in the correspondence of the miracle itself, but it will also be helpful to children of this age to point out to them how the various forms of rejection or acceptance of the Lord repeat themselves in our own attitudes toward instruction. Stress also the "hardness of heart" which made even the apostles continually forget the miracles they had witnessed.

---
Before we take up the meaning of the miracle which is our special lesson for today, we should notice some important facts which are given us in the first part of our chapter. Did you ever have the temptation to scoff at some success which came to one of your brothers and sisters or to one of your schoolmates? You couldn't quite believe that he was really smarter or better than you. We all can see that this is not a right attitude to take, but it is a very natural one to our self-conceit. The people of Nazareth had this feeling about the Lord and we are told that "he could do no mighty work there." The Lord's power was there, but the people's minds were closed against it; so they could not be helped by it.

Then we have the story of the death of John the Baptist. You remember that John was accepted by everyone as a prophet. Even king Herod (a son of the Herod who was in power when the Lord was born) believed in him. But Herod had broken the religious law by taking his brother's wife away from him and marrying her himself. Herod was not a big enough person spiritually to accept correction for himself even from a prophet, and when John pointed out his sin, he had John put in prison. He did not hate John, but he did not want to listen to him anymore. Herodias, however, the wife Herod had taken, did hate John, and tricked Herod into a careless promise which resulted in John's death. One of the lessons we learn from this story is that it is very foolish to make a general promise without knowing to what we are binding ourselves. And we should not ask anyone else to make such a promise either. Herod was not only sorry afterward; he was afraid, and even imagined that the Lord was John the Baptist come back to punish him. Herod pictures the principle of self-interest ruling in our minds, the self-esteem which leads us to do some good things because people will respect us for it, but does not give us the strength to do right when doing right is hard. Herodias pictures the love of self in our hearts which wants only its own way always.

Now we come to our special lesson. The Lord had sent the twelve apostles out by twos to go through the villages and preach and heal in His name. In order that they might understand that their power did not in any way come from themselves, He told them to take no money with them and no food and no extra clothing. They did go out, and everywhere they found some people who were eager to hear them and to give them lodging and food, and they found that they could heal people as the Lord had promised them. But the Lord knew how hard it is for any of us to acknowledge in our hearts that we are not good and wise ourselves but that all our true thoughts and good desires and deeds really come from Him. We may know that this is so, but our first impulse is always to think we are a little better than other people.

So when the apostles came back to report their success, they needed more teaching and more evidence. Notice that when the multitude who had been listening to the Lord's teaching all day needed food, the first thought of the apostles was that they should be sent away to buy it for themselves. The Lord was testing the apostles when He said, "Give ye them to eat"; and they did not pass the test. They forgot that the Lord had never asked them to do anything without giving them the power to do it. How often we think the tasks which the Lord sets before us in our everyday life are too hard for us! We say, "I can't," without even trying. So the Lord gave the apostles another lesson.

As we go through the story, remember that the Lord is teaching us as well as the apostles. The twelve apostles picture all the faculties in us that make it possible for us to serve the Lord. The five thousand people stand for all our everyday thoughts and feelings. The hunger they felt represents the need we feel for enough knowledge and strength to do right from day to day. You remember that one of the Blessings is, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled." The food our souls are looking for is goodness and truth from the Lord.

First the Lord asked the apostles what food they had on hand and they said five loaves and two fishes. Bread pictures goodness and fish the desire for knowledge. We must ask ourselves first how much of these we already have. If we do, we shall find that it is very little. In the Word every number has a meaning. It is not by accident that there were five loaves and two fishes. Five always means a little, but a little that is capable of becoming much; and two means that our hearts as well as our minds are in the matter. Two fish, therefore, mean a desire for knowledge because we want to use it in our lives. If we have even this little amount of real goodness and desire to learn, and come to the Lord with it by recognizing that it belongs to Him and not really just to ourselves, He can bless it and multiply it until it more than satisfies all our needs. And you notice that He gave it to the disciples to give to the people. We have to do something ourselves — we have to set our best faculties to work to bring into every part of our lives the truth and goodness we receive from the Lord. The simple lesson is that the Lord has given each one of us all we need to start with, and that if we will look to Him for blessing and help and make the effort to use what we have as it should be used, our little will grow as we use it, and we shall have enough wisdom and strength to do whatever the Lord asks us to do.

Did the apostles learn their lesson? Read verses 45 to 52. The trouble is that each new problem we face seems different from any we have had before and we forget so easily. It takes us a long time, as it did the apostles, to become really convinced that we have no wisdom of our own and no strength of our own, but that the Lord is always at hand to give us power and to calm the storms which beset our path if only we will believe in Him and trust Him and let Him go with us every day.

