
=== Junior

Make the connection with previous lessons through the sending out of the apostles. Review the children's knowledge of John the Baptist and tell the story of his death, stressing the lesson of Herod's weakness and its counterpart in our own experience. Then take up the miracle and its general meaning, and finally the last incident in the chapter.

What does the word disciple mean?

How many did the Lord choose to be apostles?

What does the word apostle mean?

In our lesson for today we learn that the Lord sent the apostles out by twos.

What did He tell them to take with them?

How were they to live?

What were they to do if the people of a city would not listen to them?

What did king Herod think when he heard of the wonderful things the Lord did?

The story of the death of John the Baptist is one we should know and think about. You remember that all the people believed John to be a prophet. Now we learn that king Herod believed it too. This Herod was the son of the Herod who tried to destroy the Lord in His infancy. Verse 20 says that he heard John gladly and did many things as a result of hearing him. But when John rebuked him for a particular sin of his own, he did not want to hear and so he put John in prison. Then he made a careless promise and because many of his court had heard him make it, he was afraid to break it and he put John to death. That is, he cared more for what people would say about him than he did for doing right. We are apt to wonder how anyone could do such a thing as putting an innocent man to death, but sometimes we do similar things. We are willing to be good up to a point, but when someone points out a pet fault of ours and tells us of it, we turn against him even though we know he is right; and we are also, like Herod, apt to get ourselves into difficulties by making careless promises, not stopping to think to what they may lead.

When the apostles came back to the Lord to report on the success of the journey on which He had sent them, He took them aside into a desert place to rest. But the people saw and followed them. This time evidently they came to listen to Him and not just to be healed; so He taught them all day.

When evening came, what did the disciples want Him to do with the people?

What did He say to the disciples?

What food did they have on hand?

What did He have the people do?

What did He do with the loaves and fishes?

What happened when the disciples passed them out?

How many people were fed?

How many baskets of fragments did they take up afterward?

Since the Lord creates everything in nature, we can see how, when He was living in the world, He could multiply the loaves and fishes. We should always recognize that our daily food really comes to us from the Lord, and we should not forget to thank Him for it. But there is another kind of food which is more important to us than food for our bodies. This is spiritual food, goodness and truth to nourish and develop our minds and souls. In the sermon on the mount the Lord said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled." And He said of Himself, "I am the bread of life." Sometimes people feed their bodies and starve their souls, and this is very foolish because when we die, we leave our bodies behind us but our souls go on forever and they are just what we have made them by our life in this world. So when we repeat the Lord's Prayer and say, "Give us this day our daily bread," we should think not only of the food our bodies need but also of the knowledge and strength we need to receive from the Lord in order to live that day as we ought to live.

Our chapter tells us of another way in which the Lord showed His disciples that He controls the things in nature.

How did He come to them when they were in the boat?

What did they think?

What happened when He got into the boat with them?

Then we are told that the disciples were amazed, "for they considered not the miracle of the loaves: for their heart was hardened." That is, even the disciples closest to the Lord, who had seen Him perform miracle after miracle, still did not recognize that His power was the power of God Himself. Often our hearts are hardened in the same way. We have learned in Sunday school that the Lord is the creator of everything, that He sees and knows everything, and that everything is under His control, and yet when we are in any trouble or having a hard time — as the disciples were in the boat, trying to row against contrary winds — we forget that the Lord is near and in control of things, and that all we need in order to smooth out our lives is His presence in our hearts. When we take the Lord into our boat, the troubled sea becomes calm.

