
=== Notes for Parents

When the Lord was in the world, He showed His divine power in many ways: He healed the sick, restored sight to the blind, cast out devils, raised the dead, stilled the storm. These were all pictures or parables of what He can do for our souls: He can give us power to overcome our weaknesses and sins, to see the truth, to drive out the evil thoughts and feelings which sometimes seem to "possess" us, to rise out of the dead level of earthly things into heavenly states, to find peace from all our worries, fears, and rebellious strugglings. People in all times have sought the Lord in their troubles and bereavements and found healing and comfort, as the multitudes sought Him long ago in Palestine and were satisfied.

But in our story for today the multitude did not come for physical healing. They came to learn from Him how to keep whole and sane and happy. Our chapter tells us that Jesus "was moved with compassion toward them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd: and he began to teach them many things." Then at the end of the day, instead of sending the people away to buy food for themselves, He showed His power in a new way. He had them all sit down on the green grass and He took what little food they had on hand — five loaves and two fishes — and blessing it divided it among them, and it was multiplied so that the whole five thousand persons had enough to eat, and there were twelve baskets of fragments left over.

This miracle was a parable, too. The Lord does have power over all things in nature — He created them in the beginning. But natural food is not the only food we need. Our minds and souls have to be nourished, and the Lord gives us this kind of food too, if we look to Him for it. He said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled." We pray every day, "Give us this day our daily bread." Each day we have to have food for our bodies, but each day we need still more the understanding and strength to meet the tasks and problems of the day in the right way. This is our spiritual daily bread. We find this "bread" in the Word of God. Perhaps we think at first that we get very little out of our reading of the Bible — only five loaves and two small fishes, but if we look to the Lord to bless it, He can make our understanding grow so that it will be enough for all the needs of our souls.

