
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
You will perhaps help the young people in this age group most if you can lead them to study this chapter as a picture of their own mental states and reactions and of how the Lord provides that they shall have all the help they are willing to receive all along the way. If they can be led to look to the Lord in the Word for guidance rather than to the theories of secular psychologists, a real spiritual defense will be given them.

---
Do you ever take time out to study your own thoughts and feelings? When you go to college, you will probably study psychology, and if you do not go to college, the chances are that in any occupation you enter you will find it necessary to learn something about your own and other people's mental processes. You will need to think about these things if you are to be successful in your business relations and in your social relations, but especially if you are to have a happy home and family life. We all make a great many mistakes in life because we do not sufficiently understand ourselves and other people.

The Lord never made mistakes because He knew the heart and mind of everyone, and He was infinitely kind and patient. If we can read the lessons which lie within the letter of the Word, we shall find it the most perfect textbook of psychology ever written. All the people in the Word are in every one of us. What they do, we do; and what the Lord says to them, He says to us.

The principal figures in our chapter for today are the people of Nazareth, the apostles, Herod, Herodias, John the Baptist, and the multitude. The multitude are all our everyday feelings and thoughts and the twelve apostles the particular faculties of thought and affection which are devoted to the service of the Lord. The people of Nazareth are the mental and emotional habits which we have developed in childhood as the result of our natural heredity. John the Baptist is the prompting to self-examination and correction which the Lord provides in each one of us. Herod is the principle of self-interest ruling in the mind, and Herodias is self-love ruling in the heart.

Our chapter begins with the Lord's rejection by the people of Nazareth because they were unwilling to believe that anyone who had lived among them as one of themselves could really be divine. Many people today, in spite of all the testimony of the Gospels and of Christian history, refuse to believe that Jesus was more than an unusually good man. Our natural inclination is to be skeptical of any power to which we ourselves cannot aspire. Then the Lord sends out the twelve by twos — will and thought must always work together — to teach and to heal in His name. We are taught from the Word in Sunday school and church, and our higher faculties respond and begin the work of bringing our lives under the Lord's direction. John the Baptist has already been at work in our lives. Our parents and school teachers have taught us to control our conduct so that we may be acceptable members of our social group. Even Herod — self-interest — recognized the value of orderly conduct; the "Herod" in us knows, for example, that "honesty is the best policy." But self-interest stops short of willingness to give up self-love. When the idea is presented to us that we should really stop thinking about ourselves and what we want, we "put John in prison" - you remember the meaning of Joseph's being put in prison. And our self-love itself is not satisfied until John has been beheaded. The study of this part of the chapter could be a whole lesson in itself. For today we can think of it only in general as describing a condition which exists in the mind and heart of every one of us when we start out in life. We are conscious of Herod as the tendency to accept as valid such statements as, "If you don't look out for yourself, who will?" and, "If you don't take what you want while you can get it, you'll lose out." And we are conscious of Herodias in our love of pleasure and flattery and our resentment against anyone who fails to admire us. These are the states which are ruling in our mental country when our apostles begin to preach. You, who are on the brink of your independent adult life, need to recognize these tendencies in yourselves, tendencies which are present largely as the result of heredity and environment. For the most part they are not your fault, but they are very real and they have to be reckoned with.

The Lord, however, is also present and active and He has provided faculties in us which respond to His presence. You know that often you do see the truth of what you learn about the Lord and spiritual things and you feel an immediate response to it in your heart. But doubts and temptations constantly interfere, and the way is not all easy and successful.

The story of the feeding of the five thousand is a picture of how spiritual nourishment comes to our lives from the Lord. We pray, "Give us this day our daily bread." This is the "multitude" in us - all our complex thoughts and feelings — asking the Lord for wisdom and strength to meet our daily problems and tasks. The multitude listens to the Lord's teaching all day but does not "take it in," at least in any practical sense. The disciples — our higher faculties - would send the multitude out into the villages round about to buy food. People today sometimes look everywhere for guidance except to the Lord in the Word. But the Lord says to the disciples, "Give ye them to eat." The Lord has seen to it that each of us has enough real knowledge from the Word to form the basis of right conduct. We all have our five loaves and two fishes, enough goodness and enough knowledge of the truth to make a start if we will only use it, recognizing that it comes from the Lord and can be increased only by His divine power. If we will make our "multitude" sit down by companies on the "green grass," that is, take time to put our scattered thoughts and desires into some kind of order according to reason, and look to the Lord for the knowledge and strength for which we hunger, we shall find enough and to spare.

The last part of the chapter reminds us that the problems we have to face in life are of many different kinds. Often when we have been spiritually fed, we go out and meet contrary winds. Then we need the assurance of the Lord's power in a new way. We need to see His power to master temptations and to still the unruly things in us that make the going hard. We have seen before, in our study of the Old Testament, how victory is always followed by a new and deeper temptation. But that is the way in which our souls gain strength, just as our muscles develop by doing always harder and harder things.

