
=== Notes for Parents

With the story of Abram we enter historic times. Abram and his family were real people who actually did the things recorded in the Bible. But the Lord chose them and so directed their lives that the record, just like the great symbol stories in the first few chapters, could contain within it deep spiritual lessons for all men in all times.

The second great church, pictured by Noah and his descendants, declined just as the first had through the increasing selfishness and pride of its members. The Old Testament story is a long series of beginnings, declines, and new beginnings. Isn't this true also of the history of the world and of the lives of individuals? Whenever a nation becomes so corrupt that there is no longer anything in it to which the Lord can appeal, the Lord steps in and draws out of it whatever individuals He can find who are still willing to obey Him, and forms of them a new beginning. And when an individual becomes corrupt and forsakes all that he has been taught of the right way of life, he is lost unless the Lord can find within him something to which He can appeal as the basis for a new upward trend.

Abram and his family were called to leave their native place and go to the land of Canaan. Life is a journey, and all who wish to obey the Lord are called to make this journey of Abram. We all recognize the land of Canaan — the Holy Land — as a symbol of heaven or a heavenly character. The land of our nativity is our selfish natural state. The journey is long, but the Lord promises us as He promised Abram that if we will take the way He points out to us, He will be with us and bless us and protect us and bring us at last into possession of our heavenly home.

Everyone — even among those who mean to obey the Lord — does not go all the way. Abram's old father and his brother Nahor and his family stopped at Haran, a place to the northeast of Canaan. They prospered there and kept their contact with Abram and his descendants. In fact, Abram's son Isaac and grandson Jacob married wives from Haran. All people who believe in God and try to be good are the Lord's "sheep," cared for by Him; but all do not attain the same spiritual stature.

We should not be satisfied with doing less than our best in the Lord's service. We should want to go all the way, as Abram did. And this will bring us to a state of wanting to know more and more about the Lord and what He wants us to do — as Abram experienced a famine and went down to Egypt, the great storehouse of the ancient world, and brought back to the Holy Land the riches he acquired there. The happiness which the Lord can give us is necessarily measured by the degree to which we are willing to apply ourselves to learning the truth which He has revealed to us in His Word and the effort we make to live according to it.

