
=== Senior

The two points to be most carefully developed for the Seniors are the call to turn our backs on our natural selfish desires and thoughts, and our recurring need of new knowledge from the Word as we go through life, which is pictured in the Bible story by the frequent going down into Egypt. This ties in with our earlier lesson on the nature of the spiritual church. The young people know that in order to progress in any worldly occupation they need constantly to learn new things about it. They should be able to recognize that this must be equally true of spiritual progress.

The story of Noah is the story of the rise and decline of a second great church — the Ancient Church — and its final dispersion is described in the story of the Tower of Babel. Then we have a long genealogy. You will understand that this tells of the passing of many generations and covers probably many centuries. But now we are coming down in the Bible story to historic times. Swedenborg tells us that the first real person whose name appears in the Bible is Eber (Genesis 11:14), or Heber, as it should be written, from whom the Jews were called Hebrews. So the story of the third church, the Jewish Church, is for the most part true in the letter as well as having an inner meaning. Although the inner meaning is the truth which the Lord wishes us to learn, we must first fix in our minds the literal story, for it is only through the letter that the inner meaning can be reached. The names and incidents in these early chapters are mentioned again and again as we proceed in our reading.

The people of the earth had now gone far from the Lord, and the Jewish Church, instead of being either spiritual or celestial, was to be wholly natural, a mere representative of a church, for there can be no true church without a spiritual interior. Yet the Lord could still be present in the world through the correspondence of the rituals which the Jews were commanded to observe (Hebrews 8:5).

Again a remnant of the old church was called to begin the new.

Abram and his family were this remnant. Abram was called to leave his home and go to the Holy Land, which was promised him for himself and his descendants as a possession forever. Naturally the Jews take this promise literally and so do many Christians. The history of this land since the Second World War has been deeply influenced by this belief. But it is the spiritual descendants of Abram — those who obey the Lord, as Abram did — to whom the promise is really made, and the land promised is not the earthly Canaan but what it represents — a heavenly state of lasting peace and happiness. Abram obeyed the Lord's call, and his obedience began a new history.

There is a beautiful lesson for us as individuals in the inner meaning of this story. Each one of us is called by the Lord to leave our own country — our natural selfish state — and journey to the Holy Land of heavenly living. It is a long, slow journey, with many stops on the way. Everyone who begins this journey does not attain the same state. Abram's father Terah died in Haran before they actually reached the Holy Land, and Abram's brother Nahor and his family settled in Haran. Haran represents a state of natural goodness, a state in which many people stop, people who want to obey the Lord and to be good, but are content with obedience of an external type and are not interested in learning and understanding the deeper spiritual lessons the Lord has to give us.

Abram and Lot and their families went on and reached Canaan, journeying steadily southward. As the east represents a state near to the Lord in heart, so the south pictures a state of spiritual intelligence, a progression into clearer light. Wherever he stopped Abram built an altar to the Lord. So we ought to do. We should recognize the Lord's providence in every attainment of our lives and thank him at each step for bringing us to another stage of our journey.

But before Abram could settle in the land permanently, a famine came upon him. The famine pictures a sense of need for more knowledge, which always comes periodically if we are really making progress (Amos 8:11). When we reach a point at which we think we know enough about the Lord and what he wants of us, we may be very sure we have stopped advancing spiritually. Throughout the Word Egypt pictures the store of natural knowledges — in its best sense knowledge of the letter of the Word. Abram went down into Egypt. Later Jacob, Joseph, and finally the Lord Himself went down into Egypt. All our learning periods are sojourns in Egypt.

Abram, as founder of the Jewish Church, pictures our first child-like response to the Lord's call to lead a good life. We are to leave our country (the low state of spiritual life into which we are born), our kindred (our general selfish affections and thoughts), and our father's house (our own particular inherited weaknesses and evils), and go to the land which the Lord will show us — a heavenly state of life which will open to us gradually if we accept the Lord's guidance (Matthew 19:29). When we see that the purpose of life is to do the Lord's will and not our own, we are hearing the Lord's call, and our obedience to this call is the beginning of our heavenward journey.

