
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The teacher should cover the whole lesson briefly and then invite discussion and develop further the points in which the class is most interested.

---
It is very important for us to understand that the New Church has teaching concerning the early chapters of Genesis which can be found nowhere else. For even if we hear no direct attacks upon the validity of this portion of the Word, we can scarcely escape hearing slighting references to it, and jokes and songs based upon the stories of Creation, Adam and Eve and the serpent, and Noah and the Ark. The prevailing skepticism concerning these early chapters is like an atmosphere which is breathed unconsciously. Children who are beginning to pass from complete reliance upon their parents can be protected against it only by being forewarned of its existence and by understanding its cause. This is the method the Lord followed with the race. It is interesting to note that the first volume of the Arcana, which points out the impossibility of a literal interpretation of these chapters and gives their internal sense, appeared several years before the work of Jean Astruc (1684-1766), the father of modern skepticism. [The work here referred to was published in 1753 and titled, "Conjectures sur les Memoires Originaux dont il Parait que Moise s'est Servi pour Composer le livre de la Genèse" (Conjectures on the manuscripts of which it appears that Moses made use in order to compose the book of Genesis). Biblical textual scholars generally regard this work as the beginning of modern textual investigation of the sources of the Pentateuch. -Editor]

Thus before doubt was permitted to attack the Word openly, the truth which could meet and overcome the doubt was published.

The New Church teaches that the early chapters of Genesis were copied by Moses from the Ancient Word, which existed before our Word and which was written entirely in correspondences; that is, the things of nature were used as symbols to express spiritual truths, just as the Lord taught His disciples through the various parables so familiar to us all. The people of the Most Ancient Church, having open communication with the heavens, understood the true relation between the two worlds and saw everything in nature as a mere ultimation of something spiritual. So the earliest language, both spoken and written, was a beautiful symbol language, the expression of spiritual thought in natural forms. This language was preserved, in the Ancient Word, and still is preserved in the first eleven chapters of our Bible. As men turned from the Lord, however, and became absorbed in themselves and in their life in the world, they lost communication with the spiritual world and with it the understanding of the spiritual realities behind things in nature. In time they lost even the knowledge that the early stories of Genesis had a spiritual meaning.

Yet for a time men continued to recognize that these stories came from God and to believe them to be true. So they could be helped by them, for even in their letter they teach the great truths that the Lord is Creator of all things, that man is happy so long as he obeys the Lord, and that all evil and unhappiness come from disobedience. But finally men began to doubt the truth of the stories and with it their Divine origin. Then in order to save mankind the Lord restored the knowledge of their inner meaning. This is what was done through Swedenborg. To the New Churchman the early chapters of Genesis, instead of being strange and puzzling, and stumbling blocks in the way of belief in the Bible, become wonderful volumes of instruction in the spiritual history of the race and of our own souls. Our children should be armed with the knowledge that those who doubt these chapters are simply ignorant of their true meaning, because they either have not found or have refused to use the key which the Lord has given us.

Swedenborg tells us that the object of creation was "a heaven from the human race." The first verse of the Word tells us: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." Heaven symbolizes the spiritual nature in man, the earth his lower nature. The whole story of creation is the account of the development of man's consciousness of his higher nature, of his understanding of the proper relation and use of the higher and lower, and finally of his enjoyment of the full measure of his heavenly possibilities; that is, of the development of the truly human soul. This is a long process, and the history of the individual parallels the history of the race because the race is composed of individuals, and because each individual is a new creation.

The great heritage of the New Church is the key to the inner meaning of the Word: the knowledge of correspondences. Yet many New Church people never acquire the ability to use this key for themselves. They know perhaps that water corresponds to truth, fire to love, a lamb to innocence, bread and wine to good and truth, and other correspondences here and there, but their information is too scattered to be of any use to them as they read the Word. The story of creation provides a practical working outline for the study of correspondences because it contains the great generals. Heaven in the first verse of Genesis signifies the internal part of man, and earth the external part of man (@AC 16). The external part of man does not mean just the body, but all the natural thoughts and feelings which are connected with our everyday life in the world. The internal man is the higher, internal region of the soul, of which we are unconscious much of the time, where are our thoughts and feelings about the Lord and spiritual things. These two are present in every man from the beginning, but the earth — the external man — is without form and void; that is, we have no understanding of the purpose or plan of our earthly life. And darkness is "upon the face of the deep"; that is, we are altogether ignorant even of the existence of an inner and higher nature. This condition exists not only when we are infants, but when we are grown men and women if we have not begun to regenerate; for when a man or woman does not believe that there is any higher life than the natural, not only is his internal man in darkness but everything he knows about this world is empty of any real good and truth because it is not seen in its proper relation to spiritual life. Yet always the "spirit of God" moves upon the face of the waters; the Lord's mercy is always seeking to reach us through the things which He has stored up — without our knowing it — in our internal man.

The first beginning of regeneration — the formation of a heavenly character — is the coming of light. Throughout the Word darkness pictures a state of ignorance and light a state of knowledge. The Lord was born while shepherds watched their flocks by night; when He was crucified there was darkness over the world. And in the creation story each day — that is, each stage of development — proceeds from evening to morning, from darkness to light, from ignorance to knowledge. "And God said, Let there be light; and there was light." Of this Swedenborg says: "The first state is when man begins to know that the good and the true are something higher" (@AC 20). The very first thing necessary to regeneration is to recognize that there is something higher than our mere external life, something more important than what we can get for ourselves out of this world. Thus God, working in our minds, divides the light from the darkness.

Then follows the second day, in which we begin to organize the knowledges which are in our minds, dividing between those which concern merely worldly things and those which concern heavenly and Divine things. This is the beginning of our real awareness of our internal potential — the firmament — and the dividing of the waters above the firmament from those below the firmament. In the story water first appears as a symbol for truth. To the man who does not believe in God and a spiritual world the Bible is like any other book, and ideas about goodness and truth have no meaning other than that which arises out of their effects in this world. But as soon as one recognizes the existence of God and of a higher life, goodness and truth are seen as spiritual realities.

The third day, or stage, brings more definite and permanent accomplishment. The waters under the firmament are gathered together into seas. Seas stand for knowledges gathered together in the memory. Think, for example, of the place the Sea of Galilee holds in the Gospel story. Then the dry land appears; that is, man forms a definite idea of what his external nature is and of what its use should be. And from this time he begins to make his external perform its proper use. It receives seeds of truth from the Lord and produces external good works. Here we have our introduction to the wonderful symbolism of the vegetable kingdom, the basis for the understanding of the meaning of all the plants and trees in the Bible story. We are familiar with the parable of the Sower and with the Lord's explanation of it: the Sower is the Lord, the seed truths from the Word, the ground the minds of men, and the fruit the good and useful things done by a man when the seed of truth has taken root in his heart and grown up in his life. The many different plants and trees represent different truths. Every plant and tree is a principle grown from a particular truth, and its fruit is the conduct which results from the application of that principle. And as every fruit has seeds of its own kind within itself, so right conduct in one individual suggests to other people the truth of the principle behind it, which they may adopt and develop into right conduct of their own. Notice that there is a progression in the appearance of vegetable life: first the grass — or more properly the "tender herb" — then the herb yielding seed and finally the tree yielding fruit. That is, we first develop minor truths whose results are perishable, and later more and more important and fruitful truths.

Now we are ready for another great step forward. The good we have done so far has been the result of the mere recognition of the existence of God and spiritual things. But when we have had some experience in trying to live according to spiritual principles, we begin to feel the need of more definite knowledge of God and of His purposes. On the fourth day the sun, moon, and stars appear. The sun is the symbol of love to the Lord, the moon of faith in Him, and the stars of knowledges of heavenly things. There are a great many people who believe that there is a God but think we cannot know anything about Him. These people try to do right, but they have only their own judgment to guide them or the judgment of other men and women. They have light but they do not know where it comes from. They do right from a sense of duty, or from fear of the consequences of evil, or from a desire to be respected and to respect themselves. These are all motives in which there is much of self. Such people are often troubled by the command to "love the Lord." They say, "What does it mean to love the Lord? How can we love someone we do not know?" But it is not true that we cannot know the Lord. He has revealed Himself to us in His Word and in the person of Jesus Christ, the "Word made flesh." If we love the divine characteristics so manifested, we love the Lord. If, instead of clinging to our natural tastes and desires, we seek to make our characters conform to the divine standard, then we are acting from love to the Lord and not from love of self. Then the sun appears in our heavens. But we all know that even after we have seen this sun, there are times when our natural desires rise up and darken our sky. Then we must continue to obey the commandments because we know that they are the Lord's way. This is faith, which like the moon shines by reflected light and shows us the way through our temporary darkness until the sun rises again — until the temptation is past. And we are helped at such times also by all that we have learned from the Word about the Lord and His ways — the stars guide us. This change from self-guidance to the Lord's guidance is a distinct step in our progress and is necessary to our doing any real good; for, as Swedenborg tells us many times and as the Lord Himself tells us in Matthew 19:17, there is no genuine good except from the Lord's unselfish love in the heart. This is why the creation of the sun, moon, and stars comes in between the creation of the vegetable kingdom and that of the animal kingdom, for animals are warm-blooded, living things and represent genuine good affections.

At the beginning of his explanation of verse 20 Swedenborg says: "After the great luminaries have been kindled and placed in the internal man, and the external receives light from them, then the man first begins to live. Heretofore he can scarcely be said to have lived, inasmuch as the good which he did he supposed that he did of himself, and the truth which he spoke that he spoke of himself; and since man of himself is dead, and there is in him nothing but what is evil and false, therefore whatsoever he produces from himself is not alive" (@AC 39). But as soon as one recognizes that all goodness comes from the Lord and not from himself, everything in him begins to live. The knowledges of external things which he has stored in his memory — the seas — come to life, as it were, because they become related to the Lord and His service; these are the "moving creatures that hath life" which the waters brought forth. And the higher things of his reason are the birds which fly in the air. The great whales are the general principles of external knowledge. That is, fishes and birds picture things of the mind made alive by being related to the Lord as the source of all wisdom.

On the sixth day the earth brings forth living creatures. These are no longer things of the mind alone, but things of the will — good affections. Before we reach this stage we may know what is right and not do it, or we may even do it against our real desire. But when we love to do it, then the earth has brought forth the good animals. Fish and birds always picture things of the mind, lower and higher, and animals always picture things of the heart or will. When these good affections are brought forth, when a man has come to love to do the Lord's will, then he has become truly a man created in the image and likeness of God both as to his intellect and as to his will: "Male and female created he them." Here is another fundamental correspondence which we should know: in general throughout the Word men picture the intellect and women the affections. The regenerate man has dominion or control over all his thoughts and affections; for when anyone loves to do the Lord's will, the Lord's power can act in and through him. The Lord has given each of us a kingdom within himself, which he must learn to govern wisely. We must try to see that everything in us serves the Lord and so is really alive, and then we must keep all the fish and birds and animals of our minds and hearts in order so that the Lord's power can make us true men and women.

The seventh day — the day of rest — pictures the happy state of one who is fully established in heavenly character. We have a taste of this state whenever we have fully conquered a particular temptation so that we no longer want to do the wrong thing against which we have been struggling, when the Lord's love is in our hearts instead of the selfish desire which has troubled us. As long as we are in this world new temptations will soon come upon us. But when we reach our heavenly home, the time of struggle and trial will be past and we shall always enjoy the happy state of willing service. For rest is not inactivity: it is "rest in the Lord” living consciously from Him so that nothing which is given us to do can worry or tire us. For this reason the seventh day was blessed and sanctified, and the number seven throughout the Word represents what is holy.

