
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There should be persistent effort to make clear to the pupils that the Bible has an intimate personal application and that it describes their own spiritual life. This group should begin to realize that in its spiritual as well as in its literal sense the Bible is one continuous story written by the Lord according to definite patterns and plans. In this lesson the New Church teaching concerning the early chapters of Genesis can be given briefly, and the effect should be to make the young people feel sorry for those who know so little of the meaning of these wonderful stories that they doubt and ridicule them. Most of the class time should be given to the correspondence of the six days as it relates to their own development from infancy to maturity.

---
Let us be sure we know the first verse of the Bible by heart.

Other verses in the lesson which are good to learn are verses 3, 27, and 28. We should also know what progress was made on each of the six days.

While this seems to be the story of the beginning of the earth, we should know that the Bible is not given to teach us natural science. Men can find out things about the earth by their own efforts, and God would not have to give us a revelation to tell us such things. The Bible is given to teach us spiritual truths — truths about God and our souls — which we could not find out for ourselves. The Lord Himself is the Author of the Word, although He used many different men to write it down. He put the words into their minds, and they knew that they must write them down, and that the words did not come from themselves.

The very first verse tells us that in the beginning man was created with a heavenly as well as an earthly nature. He was not a mere animal. But his earthly nature was rudimentary and his heavenly nature was clouded with the darkness of ignorance (verse 2). This is also true of each one of us when he is born.

The beginning of man's development — and of ours — was the moment when God said, "Let there be light." Truth is for the eye of the mind what light is for the physical eye. When we begin to understand something, we say, "I see." Then and only then can we go ahead. See if you can think of any other common sayings in which light and darkness and sight and blindness are used in this way.

The six days of creation picture six stages in man's development into a true human being, in the image and likeness of God, a spiritual being capable of knowing and worshiping God. Read through the chapter, thinking of each step in this light. Because everything in nature was made by the Lord, everything expresses something in Him. So we say that each thing in nature "corresponds" to something in the world of the spirit, and the Bible is written in this language of correspondence. Here are some correspondences to help you in seeing the spiritual meaning within this first chapter of Genesis:

Waters mean truths.

The firmament — or expanse as it is more accurately translated — pictures the plane of our thinking. The waters above the firmament are symbolic of truths about God and heavenly life, those below the firmament are truths about the world and earthly life.

Dry land means our conscious experience, and seas represent truths gathered together in the memory.

The vegetable kingdom stands for our thoughts, the fruit for our deeds. Seeds, spiritually speaking, are new germs of thought which are capable of producing fruit. We may think of the Lord's words: "By their fruits ye shall know them." And we all remember the parable of the sower, which is found in Matthew 13:1-23. The Lord Himself explained this parable to His disciples, and told them that the seed represented the Word.

The sun is the symbol of love for the Lord, the moon faith in Him, and the stars knowledges of heavenly things. The day is a time when we see clearly, and the night one when everything seems dark, and we must just trust in what we have been taught about the Lord and the good life, as a sailor at night is guided by the stars.

Living creatures represent affections or desires — cold-blooded ones, like fish, affections for earthly knowledges, the birds affections for heavenly knowledges, and warm-blooded animals affections for doing useful things.

Think carefully what verse 27 teaches us about God and our relation to Him.

The Lord gave us the world in which we live and also all the thoughts and affections we have, and He tells us to rule over them wisely. Swedenborg tells us: "The end [purpose] of creation is a heaven from the human race." So our purpose in life should be to become the kind of people who can live in heaven.

Read chapter 2, verse 3, and think from it what type of day Sunday should be for us. It is not intended to be a sad or hard day, but we ought to spend it in such a way that we and all those about us may be happy and peaceful together. Happiness does not come from always "getting our own way," for our own way is often very selfish and hard on other people. Happiness comes from learning to love to do the things the Lord would have us do, and we can do this only by learning what He has told us in the Word and by keeping His commandments. Recall the commandment, "Remember the sabbath day to keep it holy." Going to church and Sunday School is an orderly part of the keeping of the sabbath. A good rule to keep in mind about Sunday is one which the Lord gave the people when He was in the world: "It is lawful to do good on the sabbath day."

