
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
These children should be able to find the lesson in the Bible and to remember most of it. It is at this age that children especially like to learn facts, and it is therefore the age at which the literal sense of the Word should be most thoroughly taught. Be sure that they understand the meaning of any unusual words in the text. Juniors like to learn new words and to stretch their minds. They may also be introduced to the idea that all the stories in the Word are parables, even though most of them are also fact. So the Junior notes will include from time to time some of the simpler and more obvious correspondences. In the case of the Creation story the correspondence of light and darkness is a very easy one to explain because it is so familiar through our everyday speech.

---
What book do we study in Sunday School?

What is the first book in the Bible?

What does Genesis mean?

What does the first verse of the Bible tell us?

Who is the Author of the Bible?

The first chapter in the Bible tells us about the creation of the world. God made both the heavens and the earth in the very beginning, but it took a long time to prepare the earth for man. This preparation was accomplished in six stages, called "days."

Notice that the very first step in the development of the world was light. "And God said, Let there be light; and there was light." Now think whether there is any other kind of light besides physical light. Do we ever say, "I see," when we don't mean seeing with our eyes? When we don't understand a thing, it is like darkness, isn't it? And light comes when we begin to understand. Then we can go ahead. So if our minds are to develop we need the light of truth, or knowledge.

After light came, the world moved steadily forward.

First the heavens and the earth could be clearly distinguished from each other.

Then on the earth the dry land appeared, and grass and grain and fruit trees began to grow.

Then the clouds broke away so that the sun appeared in the daytime and the moon and stars at night.

Then the fish were created in the sea and the birds in the air. Finally, on the sixth day the animals were created and lastly men and women.

Read Genesis 1:27 and see what it tells us about God, and about man. This shows us that man is quite different from the animals.

God gave the whole world to man to use and enjoy and take care of. If we misuse and spoil the good things the Lord gives us, we hurt ourselves more than anyone else. If we take good care of our possessions and use them as they are meant to be used, we can be trusted with more and more and can have more and more happiness.

Read Genesis 2:3. Blessed means made happy, and sanctified or hallowed means made sacred. This tells us what kind of day Sunday should be. It should be a restful and happy day not only for us but for all those about us; so we must try to be especially obedient and helpful at home on that day. And it should be made sacred by taking time and opportunity to learn about the Lord and to worship Him.

The first chapter of Genesis seems to be just a story of how the world and all things in it were created, but it is really a parable. Inside of this story of the beginning of things on the earth is the story of how each one of us is born in the darkness of complete ignorance and develops little by little as his understanding grows until he is able to bring forth the fruits of good deeds and become a true man or woman in the image and likeness of his Heavenly Father, and worships Him in a happy, peaceful heart.

Now, let us see if we can write down the order in which the chapter tells us everything was created, so that we shall remember it, for as you grow older, you will learn a great deal more about what each thing in the story means.

On the first day God created light.

On the second day God created the firmament.

On the third day God created the grass, herbs, and trees.

On the fourth day God created the sun, moon, and stars.

On the fifth day God created the fish and the birds.

On the sixth day God created the animals, and man.

What did God do on the seventh day? He rested.

