
=== Notes for Parents

We send our children to school to learn the things they need to know to find and fill their places in this world. We bring them to Sunday School to learn the deeper things they need to know in order to be useful and happy not only in this world but in that higher world where we shall all live to eternity.

These deeper things can be learned only by studying the Book in which the Lord has revealed them to us — the Bible, the Word of God. So in our Sunday School course each year we cover the Bible story, learning more and more about it from year to year. We hope very much that you will be interested in what your children are learning in Sunday School and will help to lay the basis in their minds for the lesson each week by reading with them the chapters in the Bible suggested in these notes and by teaching them the memory verses. The Lord not only speaks to us in His Word; He is present with us in every verse from the Word which is planted in our memory. So in helping your children to know the Bible you are doing for them something more valuable than anything else you can possibly do.

The Bible begins with the story of creation. Its very first verse tells us the first and most important thing every person should know: "In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth." If we do not believe that we owe our existence to God, we can have no true understanding of the purpose and goal of life.

Many people today question the authority of the Bible because science has proved that the material world was many thousands of years in the making. Yet when an old person says to us, "In my day people didn't do that," we know that the speaker does not mean a day of twenty-four hours. The six days of creation are merely six stages of development. And, while it is true that in general the physical world came into being somewhat as the first chapter of Genesis says, it is not really this physical world about which the Lord is speaking. We can find out about the physical world for ourselves, but of the inner world of our souls only the Lord can tell us.

The first chapter of Genesis really tells us about the creation of a true human soul from its unconscious beginning in infancy, when it has only the potential elements of spiritual and natural development — the heaven and the earth — through the first dawning of the light of understanding by means of which one learns both natural and spiritual truths, to the belief in God and love of Him which enable us to come into His image and likeness and to attain the peace and happiness pictured by the sabbath day.

