
=== Primary

The teacher, after going through the whole story briefly, should try to see that most of the children are able to answer at least the questions, who made the world? What book tells us about the Lord? and who wrote the Bible? and to tell how many days it took the Lord to make the world and what He did on the seventh day. Do not be afraid of repetition; little children like it, and that is the way they learn.

In this lesson on Creation a special point can be made very simply of the origin of the sabbath and how we should use Sunday.

Do you know what book we study in Sunday School? It is the Bible. It is called the Lord's Book because the Lord was its Author. It is also called the Word because it was spoken by the Lord. And finally it is called the Book of Life because it tells us how to live so that we may be the Lord's children and live in heaven when we die.

The Bible is made up of many books, the first of which is called Genesis, which means "the beginning." Let us read the very first verse of the Bible and see if we can learn it, because it teaches us something which we must never forget. The Lord made this world in which we live and everything in it. But He made something else, too. He made heaven, the beautiful world to which we shall all go to live sometime if we are good.

What was the world like when it was first created? 

What was the Lord's first command?

In how many days was everything created? These were not twenty-four hour days but long periods of time. 

What did the Lord make last?

Our chapter for today tells us the order in which the Lord made man. Let us read it from the Bible. [Read Genesis 1.] You see the world had to be prepared for men before men could be created, but everything in the world was made for the use of man. The Lord is called our "Heavenly Father" because He made us all and loves us as His children. He tells us to take good care of everything and to use everything wisely as He made it to be used.

See if you can remember what the Lord did on the seventh day [Read Genesis 2:1-3], and try every Sunday when you wake up to think, "This is the Lord's day; I must keep it holy; I must think about the Lord, and try to make everyone about me happy." Blessed means made happy, and sanctified means made holy.

