
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Follow the same general lines as for the Intermediates but with proportionately more stress upon doctrine and upon the attitude of the world toward the things of religion. Solid grounding in the principles underlying the Lord's operation in the world, given at this age, will do much to prevent the young people from drifting away from the church when the atmosphere of the world begins to press upon them.

---
Probably the first attack on the authenticity of the Bible as the Word of God centered about the creation story. Since science has proved that the world was millions of years in the process of formation, it is obvious that the literal statement in Genesis is contrary to fact. As a result of this, some men say that the Bible cannot be the Word of God because it is not true.

But the Bible was not written to teach men natural science or anything else which they can find out for themselves. It was written to teach us about God and His purposes, and about our souls and their relation to Him.

In the creation story the Lord tells us — in terms of familiar natural objects which we all understand — the story of how He created the human soul in the first place and of how He creates each one of us today. In the New Church view, a human being is not merely a higher animal, although he has a material body as the animals have. "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth." Man from his creation has not only a natural body fitted for life on this earth and mental faculties to direct its use, but he has also a higher spiritual plane capable of knowing God and of living in the spiritual world.

At first both the spiritual and the natural planes were undeveloped, just as our individual minds are at birth. The baby has no knowledge; he is unable to do anything for himself. But he is not a little animal — he is a potential man. Let us follow the story of creation through briefly, as it applies to the development of the individual soul, for we are immediately concerned with the process by which each of us may become the true human being whom the Lord created him to be.

The first step — or day — is the dawn of consciousness, the ability to see, to distinguish objects and form associations of pleasure or pain. The baby begins to "notice," to recognize his parents and friends, to play, to laugh, to seek what pleases him. The second day is the dawning of the realization that some things must be done whether they give pleasure or not, that there is something in life beside the satisfaction of physical desires. This is the rudimentary differentiation between right and wrong, the basis of heavenly life.

The third day brings the thirst for knowledge of the world about us with all the thoughts and activities that spring up from this knowledge. The fourth day brings the first real concept of God and desire to learn about Him and to love and serve Him — the sun, moon, and stars picture love to the Lord, faith in Him, and knowledges of heavenly things. The fifth day brings abundant knowledge and understanding of both earthly and heavenly truths. And finally on the sixth day the strong, warm desires for useful and happy service — the warm-blooded animals — appear, and man becomes a truly human being, ordering his life wisely on the basis of knowledge of the Lord and His purposes. He is then a mature, independent, and useful individual, and can know rest — peace of mind.

This story is developed in detail in the first volume of Swedenborg's @AC , from which you will find a quotation at the end of this lesson. There it is also applied to the development of the Human nature which the Lord manifested by means of His life on earth. For within the letter of the Word of God there are several levels of meaning. The inmost level relates to the Lord and His nature and life, the next to the individual human soul, and the next to the spiritual history of the human race as a whole. So within every verse there are deeper and deeper ideas and knowledges, each one a subject for study and development. It is this inner world which the Lord has opened to men in His Second Coming.

