
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Primary: What book do we study in Sunday School? the Bible

Primary: Who is the Author of the Bible? God

Primary: By what other names do we call the Bible? the Lord's Book, the Word, the Book of Life

Primary: What is the name of the first book of the Bible? Genesis

Primary: Can you repeat the first verse of the Bible? In the beginning ... 

Primary: What is the first chapter about? the Creation

Primary: In how many days was the earth and everything on it created? six

Intermediate: Were these days of twenty-four hours each? no

Intermediate: What happened on the first day? light

Intermediate: What happened on the second day? firmament

Intermediate: What happened to the waters on the third day? sea, dry land

Intermediate: What new things were created on that day? grass, herbs, trees

Intermediate: What appeared on the fourth day? sun, moon, stars

Intermediate: What were created on the fifth day? fish, birds

Intermediate: On what day were the animals created? sixth

Intermediate: What was the final creation? man

Intermediate: In whose image and likeness was man created? God's

Intermediate. What two kinds of people were created? male, female

Intermediate. What did the Lord tell them to do? be fruitful

Primary: What did the Lord do on the seventh day? rested

Intermediate: What is the Lord really telling us about in this first chapter? the beginning of our spiritual growth

Senior: What is meant by the heaven and the earth? spiritual and natural

Senior: What do the sun, moon, and stars correspond to? love to Lord, faith in Him, knowledges of heavenly things

The brief answers to questions supplied in all the lessons are intended only as a general guide to teachers. Fuller and more detailed answers formulated and worked out with the class are generally recommended.

== THE CREATION — THE FIRST FOUR DAYS — Genesis 1:1-19

In teaching the Creation story we need to keep in mind that this is not only the beginning of the Bible but the foundation of all our further teaching. The thought of the Lord as the beginning of everything, our Heavenly Father, the Creator of everything we see and know, is essential to any spiritual understanding and to any genuinely good life. With all the classes we shall need to point out that our primary business in Sunday School is to learn of the Lord and His purposes for us so that we may truly serve Him, and that the only sure source of such knowledge is His Word which He has given us so that we may know these things. We are studying the Word as the Lord has given it to us and as He has opened it for our deeper understanding. Throughout our year's work we should frequently remind ourselves as well as our pupils that what we are studying is the Lord's Book, which is the Book of Life. We are putting special emphasis on the thought of the first four days in the Creation story, but the seven days should first be covered briefly.

