
=== Adult

The meaning of the three kings should be reviewed and the process of the development of wisdom clearly explained. Then discussion should center on the fact that the Lord's request of Solomon in verse 5 is addressed to each one of us also, and on the importance of our choice.

---
Solomon's accession to the throne of Israel pictures the coming of a new state. There are a number of important general points to note in connection with it.
(1) The new king is a son of the preceding one, whereas David was of a different line from Saul.
(2) Solomon is anointed by the express command of David, and almost immediately assumes full power.
(3) He does not have to conquer any of his kingdom nor to defend it, but instead is freely consulted and assisted by other kings.
(4) He is free to build, to adorn his land, and to amass riches.

In @AE 654[29] Swedenborg says that Solomon represents "the Lord in relation to His celestial kingdom and His spiritual kingdom." That is, Solomon, whose name means "peaceful," enters into the fruits of David's reign. He does not have to undo any of David's work. We have seen that this was not true of David's accession, which was marked by difficulty and delay through conflict with Saul. The change from a natural understanding of truth to a spiritual understanding is slow and difficult. But when the spiritual understanding is established and has been exercised and strengthened by years of successful conflict with the evils which oppose our regeneration, there comes a time when we pass from conflict to peace, the celestial state in which we do right because we love to do it. David dies, in the sense that we no longer have to obey truth against our will, for we no longer will anything which is contrary to the truth. This peaceful or "celestial" state is represented by Solomon. Love to the Lord and love to the neighbor are so firmly established in our hearts that the Lord can give us a perception of the truth. This is the highest goal of the Christian life, but it is a state to which few of us attain. "To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God."

We may wonder why, if Solomon represents this highest state, he was permitted to marry so many wives and to worship other gods as well as Jehovah. We shall see that these very things led to the breaking up of Solomon's kingdom, and that they represent temptations which assail us even in this highest state and which must be resisted. But the stream of truth which ultimates itself in the letter of the Word, spoken and acted out so often by evil men, has always inmostly a pure meaning relating to the life of the Lord. When we think of Solomon as a representative of the Lord after His coming into the world, his many marriages and his tolerance of the worship of other gods picture the Lord's love reaching out and seeking to draw to Him the good of all religions and offering salvation to all who seek to live rightly from a religious principle whether they know His true name and character or not.

Solomon asked in his dream, "Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad." This desire involves the very state which Solomon represents, a heart so established in what is good that it has a perception of truth. We should make a distinction between knowledge, intelligence, and wisdom. Knowledge is the accumulation of facts in the memory, facts about spiritual as well as about natural things. Knowledge is the necessary basis for all our thought.

For example, we must know the commandments before we can use them in our lives. Intelligence belongs to the rational faculty and is the power of arranging our knowledges and applying them to the various situations in which Providence places us. Without intelligence we cannot judge our conduct in relation to the commandments. But wisdom is of the heart as well as the mind. When we have learned the commandments and consistently applied them to our conduct, we come to know them by experience as the laws of life. In connection with this development, verse 1 of our chapter is particularly interesting when we remember that Pharaoh's daughter would represent the affection for memory knowledges. Read also 1 Kings 7:8 and 9:24. Millo was one of the ramparts of Jerusalem (cf. 2 Samuel 5:9).

We are wise when, through experience, the commandments are written on our hearts. For what we truly are proceeds out of the heart (Matthew 12:34-35). No matter how much we know or how cleverly we can reason, if we do not love goodness we are not wise, and we cannot attain this wisdom without long practice in keeping the commandments. "Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man ... And everyone that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man ... " (Matthew 7:24-26) The same lesson is strikingly taught in Psalm 14:1: "The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God." If we have acquired an "understanding heart," we can indeed judge the "Israelites" within ourselves and discern between good and bad. The Lord's reply to Solomon makes us think of His words in Luke 12:31: "But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you."

In all languages there are fairy stories based upon the granting of wishes. All children are familiar with this idea. Usually these stories are worked out on the basis of an unwise choice and its disastrous results. There is a general truth underlying all such stories — one wonders if all could perhaps be traced to something in the Ancient Word — and as a rule they lead children to think, however superficially, of what would be a really wise wish. Actually the Lord says to each one of us in our early youth, when we are looking forward to life, "Ask what I shall give thee." And He also says to us, "Ask, and it shall be given thee; seek, and ye shall find: knock, and it shall be opened unto you." We are free to choose our own goal and to work for it, free to mold our lives to the attainment of one objective or another. But the Lord does better for us than the fairies in the story: He tells us beforehand what the wise wish is, and warns us of the disastrous results of foolish wishes. He tells us that life in this world is very brief and that we have eternity before us, and also that we must make our choice here. He tells us that if we choose to wish and struggle for the things of this world, we may indeed attain them, but when our short life here is over, we shall face eternal poverty. But if we choose to wish and to work for eternal goods, we shall have them without fail, whatever our external lot in this world may be.

And the Lord also tells us that the eternal goods may be ours now as well as in the other life. To the man who planned to build ever-larger barns and to take his ease, eat, drink, and be merry, the Lord said: "Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall these things be, which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God." But to His disciples He said: "There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake, who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting." The Lord's promises do not fail. If we make Solomon's choice when the Lord first puts the question to us, and are faithful to that choice ("if thou wilt walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments"), Solomon's peaceful and glorious kingdom will surely be ours.

