
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors need the lesson of Solomon's request very much, for they are nearing the age when judgment is likely to be hard rather than wise and loving. Suggest that they learn and use the lines from the last verse of the League Hymn: "Give us to think as angels think, and feel as angels feel." Go over with them the story in verses 16 to 28 of our chapter, and help them to see that it took an understanding heart to find the truth in the case of the two women. Also have them read the suggested passage in 2 Chronicles. This is a good opportunity to show them the usefulness of the books of Chronicles and to tell them also that, like the book of Ruth, they do not have an inner sense.

---
What book of the Bible is sometimes called "the book of David'?

David did not have a peaceful reign, but he was successful against his enemies and brought the kingdom of Israel to its greatest extent and power. He captured Jerusalem and set up his capital there on Mount Zion, one of the two principal hills in the city, and he brought the ark there and put it in a new tabernacle.

The Lord had told David through Nathan the prophet that Solomon, one of his younger sons, was to be his successor. So David, near the end of his life, had Solomon anointed as the next king, and the people accepted him willingly.

The name Solomon means "peaceful." Solomon had peace throughout his reign, which like David's lasted forty years. Where did Solomon go early in his reign to make offerings to the Lord?

The old tabernacle which was built at Sinai and which, when we heard of it last, was set up at Shiloh, was now at Gibeon, with all its furnishings except the ark. Read 2 Chronicles 1:1-6, which gives us some interesting facts. The two books of Chronicles, like the book of Ruth, do not have an inner sense. But since they are part of the ancient Hebrew records, they contain some of the same stories in slightly different form, and we learn from them additional details which the Lord did not choose to make part of the Word. What did Solomon in his dream ask of the Lord?

What did the Lord promise him?

This request and its fulfillment were the cause of Solomon's greatness. The story of the two mothers in the last part of our chapter gives us an example of the kind of wisdom which comes of an "understanding heart." We are not really wise until we have come to love to do right, and also to understand and sympathize with the good desires of other people.

The Lord had promised David that Solomon should build the temple. David himself had wanted to build it, but the Lord told him he could not because he was a man of war. The building of the temple is a picture of the building of our characters by the Lord as we come into the love of obeying Him. David's battles, like all the battles in the Word, picture our times of temptation, and it is only after we have won the victory over temptation that we really love to obey the Lord.

The temple that Solomon built was not the one of which we read in the Gospels, but it was built on the same site, Mount Moriah, the second hill in Jerusalem. Mount Moriah is thought to be the place where Abraham went intending to sacrifice Isaac. Mount Zion, where David's tabernacle was set up, was a fortified citadel.

The Lord fulfilled His promise to Solomon. Several chapters of 1 Kings tell of Solomon's riches and beautiful belongings, and of his glory. Kings and queens came from afar to see him and ask him questions.

