
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Solomon state can be illustrated for the Seniors from their own experience. Let them think of temptations which they had in early childhood and felt very strongly — such as eating things on the sly — and which they have entirely overcome. In respect to such things they already have come to love to do right instead of wrong, and so are at peace. The implications of "an understanding heart" will furnish ample material for discussion.

---
The three kings, Saul, David, and Solomon, represent stages in our regeneration. Under Saul we keep the commandments from a sense of duty, thinking principally that they will prosper us in the world and get us to heaven. Under David we keep them from an understanding of the Lord's purpose in giving them to us and a desire to correct our inner as well as our outer life. Under Solomon we keep them because we have learned to love to keep them. Then they are written in our hearts and we are no longer in a constant state of struggle against our own selfish desires. The name Solomon means "peaceful." To love to do the Lord's will is peace. And what Solomon asked of the Lord was "an understanding heart."

There is a difference between knowledge, intelligence, and wisdom. One may have a great deal of knowledge, but if he cannot organize it and apply it to his life, he is not intelligent. And he is not wise until he has proved his knowledge and his intelligence by life experience.

The temple was built by Solomon. The materials, stone and wood, basic symbols of truth and goodness, were brought from outside the Holy Land, and each piece was fashioned before it was brought. Our temple is built of the truth and goodness we have made our own by applying it in our daily life. We fashion its stones and timbers by our victories in temptation, but we do not actually build the temple in this way. The stones and timbers must be brought to the Lord. Our temple is a heavenly character, and it is built in us by the Lord. It rises up silently within us — read 1 Kings 6:7 — and at the end of seven years (that is, when the Lord sees that we have reached the full measure of the goodness we are willing to achieve), it stands forth in its final form as we pass into the spiritual world.

The oracle or Holy of Holies of the temple was entirely covered with gold leaf, a symbol of the love which should be in our hearts. When all was complete, the ark was brought into it, and then "the glory of the Lord filled the temple" and Solomon had a solemn dedication service. This is a beautiful picture of a life dedicated to the Lord's service, with the commandments at the center kept willingly from love to the Lord. Such a life is full of the glory of the Lord.

The Lord's promise to Solomon to add to him the riches and glory for which he had not asked was fully kept. The chapters telling of his marvelous possessions picture in the internal sense the spiritual riches of a truly good life. Every detail has its meaning.

We do not reach the Solomon state in its fullest sense until our life in this world is over, but we do have repeated limited experiences of it as we overcome one temptation after another. When we recognize any given evil in ourselves, fight against it with the Lord's help, conquer it, and come to love its opposite, we know something of the peace and beauty and spiritual riches which are in store for the faithful, and which are pictured by the glory of Solomon's kingdom.

The story of the two mothers in the latter part of our chapter is a vivid picture of what is meant by wisdom. We are not wise until we acknowledge from the heart that all truth is from the Lord and not the product of our own intelligence. A son always pictures truth. The two women are different kinds of affection for truth, the one genuine, the other pretended. The true mother would rather give up her own claim to the truth than have it perverted. The pretended mother would rather destroy the truth than acknowledge it to be anything but her own. At the bottom of all the false teaching in the world today concerning the Lord and the Word can be found the unwillingness to acknowledge that there is any higher authority than man's own intelligence. If you will keep this firmly in mind and analyze the reasons given you in the business and professional world and in college for disbelief in the Lord and the Word, you will be able to stand on your own feet spiritually and be saved from swallowing a great many falsities.

