
=== Adult

There are two aspects of the lesson which are especially important for the Adults: the difference between the New Church teaching concerning the cross and the ideas prevailing in some other churches, and what betrayal of the Lord is in our own lives. The teacher should study the Intermediate and Senior notes also.

---
The Holy Supper is the one great feast of the Christian Church.

It takes the place of the Passover and of all the feasts and sacrifices prescribed for the ancient Jewish Church. As the Passover commemorated deliverance from bondage in Egypt, so the Holy Supper commemorates our deliverance from bondage to the hells. The Lord Himself is "the Lamb that was slain" for our salvation, and the bread and wine of the Holy Supper are symbols of His body and blood, which are divine good and divine truth, as He Himself told His apostles. The "bread" which nourishes our souls is divine good, and the "wine" which refreshes us is divine truth. The Lord invites us all to partake of these for the strengthening of our souls against evil and falsity and their nourishment unto eternal life.

The name Gethsemane means "oil press." Oil is a symbol of love. The oil press is a picture of temptation as to love, the deepest temptation of all. The Lord went to the Garden of Gethsemane on the Mount of Olives with His apostles after the last supper, knowing that Judas had agreed to betray Him. The physical suffering which He was to undergo was doubtless not even in His thoughts when He prayed that the cup might pass from Him. He did not have Himself in mind in His prayer — He never had Himself in mind — but those who were to reject the salvation which he had come to give them, as well as those who, having become His followers, were to yield to the weakness of the flesh and desert Him. He longed to save them all from committing these sins and to save them by force of His very divine power in spite of their own perverted wills. The fact that even this deepest temptation came from what remained of His assumed humanity is shown by the change in the form of His prayer. He prayed three times, representing His turning to the Divine with all three planes, but only the first and most external prayer admitted the possibility of any change in the divine order which He was fulfilling. His disciples fell asleep, as we all do. Their sleep is a picture of our inability to keep our minds awake to spiritual realities, of our proneness to fall back into natural ways of thinking even when we have been instructed in the truth, to think in terms of worldly standards and values. This is to be spiritually asleep. So the Lord says to us, as well as to the apostles:

"Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak."

In the Christian world Judas has come to be a symbol of all that is despicable. This has led to the question of why the Lord chose Judas in the first place to be one of His apostles, since the Lord knows the hearts of all. But we must distinguish between Judas the man and Judas the representative. In chapter 27 we learn that Judas recognized his sin and tried to undo it, and finally hanged himself from remorse. And Swedenborg tells us that after True Christian Religion was completed the original twelve apostles were sent throughout the spiritual world to proclaim the Second Coming; so we may well infer that Judas the man found his home in the heavens. From the writings we learn that he represents the church of that time, which was then in the love of the externals of worship. The affection for the externals of worship is a necessary and valuable affection but one which is easily led astray. When we, as did the scribes and Pharisees, put on outward piety as a cloak for inner selfishness and in order that we may have worldly honor and power, we are like Judas betraying the Lord with a kiss, for all outward worship purports to love the Lord.

The Lord made no effort to prevent Judas from betraying Him; neither would He permit His disciples to use force against the enemies who came to seize Him. It was necessary that His enemies be permitted to do their worst in order that His glory might afterward appear. As He said, He could have summoned "more than twelve legions of angels" at His will to restrain His enemies, but this would have been contrary to the divine purpose of leaving men in freedom. We are often tempted to try to force the truth upon others who do not want it, or to fight evil with its own weapons. But this method never succeeds. Truth is steadfast and uninsistent; only falsity is violent and anxious to dominate. The same weakness which prompted Peter to draw his sword led him to forsake the Lord after He was seized and to deny Him while He was being tried, for it was the feeling that material power is greater than spiritual power. It is the same weakness which prompts people in the church today to try to make the church succeed by doing "what everybody else does," and leave the church when it does not appear to be prospering.

The Lord was tried first by the people themselves before Caiaphas the high priest. We recall that the Jews, in comparison with other nations, represent the church in us, our relation to the Lord. This is where the real trial of the Lord in us always takes place. The Lord refused to argue with Caiaphas or even to answer the false witnesses who were brought against Him. He merely asserted His divinity and pointed to the time when He would appear as their judge, and left them free to decide as they chose. So He does with us. We have all the evidence which the people then had. The Gospels stand for all time as authentic records of the Lord's life and claim. If we reject Him, it is not because of lack of evidence: it is simply because we do not wish to accept Him, because we prefer to follow our own guidance, to have our own way. The trial before Pilate represents merely our confirmation by reasonings of the decision of our will.

Many in the first Christian church theoretically and also actually regarded the cross as a punishment. Many today believe that on the cross the Lord suffered the punishment which men deserved, and so paid the price of our salvation. This is the doctrine called "vicarious atonement." Many others — perhaps the majority — nominally reject this doctrine; yet actually many still believe it, for they believe that because they call themselves Christians they will be saved, even if they live and think as they please, ignoring the Lord's teaching and rejecting the Scriptures which are our only source of knowledge of Him. They think of the crucifixion as a defeat and a tragedy, and feel bound to the Lord by pity for His voluntary suffering. This is not the New Church doctrine.

The passion of the cross was the Lord's final victory over all the temptations which beset our finite humanity and to which we so often yield, the final putting off of all the limitations and weaknesses which He had voluntarily assumed in the humanity He took on from Mary, in order to meet and overcome the evil forces which men had created by their misuse of His gifts and with which He could not have come in contact in any other way.

The cross teaches us that evil and falsity have no power against goodness and truth, that if we choose to walk with the Lord, not even death itself can hurt us. The thought of the cross should inspire us to say with the four and twenty elders (Revelation 11:17):

"We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to come: because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned."

