
=== Intermediate

Since the Intermediates are or will soon be of proper age for confirmation, stress the institution and correspondence of the Holy Supper. Then go on to the meaning of the crucifixion and the correspondence of some of its details, letting the interest of the young people determine which you discuss.

---
When the Lord entered Jerusalem on Palm Sunday the people, who really wanted His help, received Him gladly; but the scribes and Pharisees, who feared that He would take away their power, were displeased at His coming. The Lord did not try to please them. During Monday and Tuesday He taught boldly in the temple, and much of His teaching was unhesitating condemnation of the scribes and Pharisees and admonition to the people not to follow their example. At first, for fear of the people, the priests and scribes did not dare molest Him, but gradually they succeeded in turning the people against Him, so that by Tuesday night He left the city not to return until Thursday night, when He came in for the Passover feast. Throughout the week He spent His nights at the home of His friends Mary, Martha, and Lazarus in Bethany.

There is a deep spiritual reason why the Lord was crucified during the celebration of the Passover week. He is called the Paschal Lamb. The crucifixion was the culmination of a long succession of struggles and victories by means of which He overcame the hells, the powers of evil which had grown so strong in the world that no man could resist them in his own strength. As the Passover commemorated deliverance from bondage in Egypt, so the Holy Supper, instituted by the Lord to take its place for all Christians, commemorates our deliverance by Him from bondage to hell. He said that the bread and wine were His body and blood, and this means that they are symbols of the divine love and wisdom which we must receive into our hearts and minds if we are to be His followers.

The Lord could have saved Himself from the cross. Read Matthew 26:53. But if He had stopped short of physical death, He could not have shown us the way through it. He could have saved Himself by so mighty a miracle that all His enemies would have been forced to recognize Him as God. But their hearts would not have been changed. They would have obeyed Him through fear, but they would have been no happier. They would merely have been His slaves instead of the devil's. The Lord does not want slaves.

The rejection of the Lord by the people after He had been received as king marked the end of their church as the means of the Lord's presence among men. Judas, among the Apostles, pictured the ancient Jewish Church. So he betrayed the Lord and then killed himself. When we acknowledge the truth and then reject it because we do not want to live according to it, we kill the truth in our minds and as a result cause our own spiritual death. The end of that church as an intermediary between the Lord and men was also pictured by the rending of the veil of the temple at the time of the crucifixion.

The parting of the Lord's garments among the soldiers and the casting of lots was in fulfillment of a prophecy which we find in Psalm 22:18. John 19:23-24 gives us a little fuller account of this. The Lord's garments stand for the letter of the Word, and His "coat" or inner garment pictures the internal sense. People today "divide the Lord's garments" when they accept from the letter of the Word only what they can use to support what they want to believe. But the internal sense cannot be treated in this way — it is "woven without seam."

Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus (John 19:38-40) were members of the church's high court or Sanhedrin. They had not agreed with the others in condemning the Lord. They were not brave enough to stand alone against the almost overwhelming opinion, but after the crucifixion they had influence enough with Pilate to be given the permission to care for the Lord's body, and they placed it in a new tomb. The request of the chief priest and Pharisees to have the tomb sealed and guarded showed that they were afraid of the Lord even after they had rejected Him. When people today reject the Lord, they sometimes spend a great deal of effort in bolstering up their position with arguments, not realizing that the arguments are merely foolishness in the ears of those who believe in the Lord and have experienced His power in their own lives.

