
=== Junior

Do something in this class with the history of the Passover and the institution of the Holy Supper in its place. Then go on to the story of the trial, crucifixion, and burial, and end with the meaning of the cross in our own lives.

---
How did the Lord enter Jerusalem on Palm Sunday?

What did the multitudes feel about Him?

What did the children shout?

The Lord knew that this feeling would not last. Read Matthew 20:17-19.

The Lord spent Monday and Tuesday of His last week teaching in the temple, but by that time the feeling against Him, stirred up by the scribes and Pharisees and priests, grew so strong that He did not come into the city on Wednesday. For He did not sleep in the city. At night He went out to Bethany, a little village nearby, and stayed at the home of His friends Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. Then on Thursday evening He came into the city again to celebrate the feast of the Passover with His disciples, knowing just what was going to happen to Him.

What did the Passover feast commemorate?

During supper, what new feast did the Lord institute?

The Lord told His disciples that the bread was His body and the wine His blood. He was speaking to them in a parable as He always did. Our real selves are our feelings and thoughts. The real "body and blood" of the Lord are His goodness and truth. So when people partake of the Holy Supper, it is a symbol of their desire to receive the Lord's unselfish love into their hearts and His truth into their minds.

Where did the Lord go to pray after the supper?

What was His prayer?

When we pray to be saved from some physical disaster or to be relieved of some physical affliction, we should always remember to add, "Nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt," for the Lord knows and does what is best for each one of us.

Who betrayed the Lord?

Did the Lord know he was going to do it?

Why did He not stop him?

What tempted Judas to betray his best friend?

We read that when he realized what he had done, he went out and hanged himself. We often do things we know to be wrong, imagining that somehow nothing really bad will come of it, and then we are horrified at the actual results.

Read carefully the story of the Lord's trial and crucifixion.

Judea had its own king in the time of the Lord, as well as its own priesthood, but it was subject to the Roman Empire, and the Roman governor was the only one who had power to condemn a man to death. The Lord's trial was a false trial. If you will read the testimony that was brought against Him and His answers, you will see that no proof was even offered that He was not what He claimed to be — they simply refused to believe Him. The real reason they put Him to death was that if they had accepted His statement that He was the Messiah, they would have been bound in the eyes of the people to accept what He said of the true way of life, and they did not want to change their ways or lessen their selfish control over the people.

What did the disciples do when the Lord was seized?

What did Peter do?

How was the Lord put to death?

What was done with His clothing?

Where was His body placed?

What measures were taken to prevent His resurrection?

These two chapters show us that even the temptation to do wrong in order to save our lives can be overcome in the Lord's strength. The cross is the sign of the Lord's final and complete victory over all the temptations which men can ever feel. Whenever we are tempted, if we think of the Lord and ask His help, we shall be able to stand firm.

