
=== Notes for Parents

Our lesson on Palm Sunday told us how the Lord entered Jerusalem on the first day of the last week of His earthly life and was welcomed as a king.

When we read the rest of the story of that week, we may at first wonder how the people could so easily have been persuaded to turn against the Lord and put Him to death, but if we remember how often we make good resolutions and almost immediately break them, we shall understand. There are three incidents in these two chapters which bring this lesson home to us. One is the act of Judas and his later repentant despair. We are accustomed to think of Judas as the example of everything bad, but Judas often shows himself in us. Whenever we do what we know to be wrong in order to obtain some immediate advantage, "Judas" is acting in us.

The second incident is the desertion of the Lord by all His disciples when He was captured (Matthew 26:56). And the third is the story of Peter's triple denial of the Lord. The fear of what "other people" will think and do undoubtedly sometimes keeps us from doing wrong, but also sometimes it may keep us from doing right. The really strong man or woman is the one who studies the teachings of the Lord in the Word for himself, meditates on them, and carries them out steadily no matter what others may think or do. Remember the first two verses of the first Psalm.

This is what the whole story of the Lord's earthly life teaches us. and especially the story of His death on the cross. He knew the hearts of all men — of the people and of His disciples. He knew just what was going to happen. And He went steadily forward, overcoming each temptation as it came, and fulfilling the Law and the Prophets, until He could say, "It is finished."

For the New Church the cross is the symbol of the Lord's victory, of the final triumph of divine love over all the evils that had accumulated in human nature. It stands forever as a sign to us that if we will only be faithful, nothing that happens to us in this world can harm our souls. "Fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul." The Lord of His own will permitted the people to do their worst to Him in order to prove to them and to all men in all times that "with God all things are possible."

