
=== Primary

If you center the lesson around Peter's denial of the Lord, you can impress upon the children the importance of being faithful to the Lord — that is, of doing right because the Lord says it is right, no matter how strong may be our temptation to do wrong. Use the simple story of the rejection and crucifixion of the Lord as a background for this major lesson. Give as much as possible of the simple story of the Lord's last week on earth. connecting it with the Palm Sunday lesson. Stress the Lord's victory on the cross and what it means for us. Tell the children that there is not a single temptation which they feel that the Lord did not feel and overcome, and that if we keep Him close to us always in our minds and pray to Him when we are tempted, He will give us strength to say "no" to our bad impulses and thoughts.

You remember how the Lord rode into Jerusalem on a donkey on Palm Sunday, and how the people welcomed Him as king. That was the beginning of the last week of the Lord's life on earth. The people would have been glad to have Him rule over them, for they knew how much He could do for them, but their leaders did not want Him because they wanted to go on having their own way and telling everybody else what to do. So they told the people that Jesus was not their king, and they finally persuaded them that He should be put to death.

He spent Monday and Tuesday teaching in the temple.

At night He went out to Bethany to stay with His friends, Mary, Martha, and Lazarus.

Jerusalem was crowded with people who had come to celebrate the Passover. Do you remember what the Passover was?

On Thursday evening the Lord and His disciples ate the feast together in Jerusalem.

The Lord knew all that was going to happen, and He knew that even His twelve closest disciples would not stand by Him. At His last meal with them, He told them that one of them would betray Him. This meant that one of them would tell His enemies how they could capture Him. When the Lord told the disciples this, do you think they began to look at each other and say, "Are you the one?"

What did every one of them ask Him?

[Read Matthew 26:22.] Try to remember this verse. for it teaches us that we should all recognize how easily we ourselves do wrong, and that we should be ready to blame ourselves rather than always trying to put the blame on somebody else.

The Lord showed them how to keep a new feast instead of the Passover.

All Christian people keep this feast in memory of the Lord.

Do you know what it is called?

After supper where did the Lord and His disciples go?

How did Judas betray the Lord?

The Lord was tried before the religious court and then before the Roman governor.

No real fault could be found with Him, so they had the people lie about Him. They put Him to death because they did not want to live as He taught them. What was done with the Lord's body?

See how much you can remember of the Easter story.

