
=== Senior

The difference between the New Church teaching and that of some other churches in regard to the crucifixion is important for this class. The general story will be familiar to most of them. What is pictured by Judas and his betrayal of the Lord should be brought out, as well as the transition from the ancient Hebrew to the Christian dispensation.

---
The triumphal entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday was, as the Lord knew, really the beginning of the end. But the temporary support of the multitude gave the Lord an opportunity to denounce the scribes and Pharisees openly and to cleanse the temple. In much the same way, there are moments in our lives when our sense of the Lord's kingship and power is so strong that we can see our own sins and hypocrisies in clear light and condemn them. Like the crowd we soon lose this fervor amid the temptations of our daily environment, but its effect persists and strengthens in us the small beginnings of regenerate life.

We have in us all the qualities represented by the twelve disciples including Judas, who represents the quality of the Jewish Church of that day, which was in externals of worship without its internal. It was at the close of the Passover feast that Judas betrayed the Lord. The very truth which guides and supports the good merely incites in the evil greater resistance. When at this feast the Lord instituted the Holy Supper, He called the bread and wine His body and blood because they represent His goodness and truth. The reception of these by Judas resulted immediately in His betrayal of the Lord. We should remember this when we come to the Lord's supper, and be sure there is no hypocrisy in our reception of it.

Swedenborg tells us that the Lord's final and supreme temptation was the temptation to save men against their wills. In submitting to death upon the cross instead of saving Himself by a miracle He overcame this temptation. To do what is right "as it is written" in the face of popular scorn, of desertion by one's friends, of inevitable suffering is proof of the highest courage. This is what the cross means both in the Lord's life and in the lives of all of us His followers who are bidden to take up our cross and follow Him.

We should not be led to the Lord by pity for His suffering, but by admiration of His courage and by love of the qualities manifested in His earthly life, which are divine qualities. It is curious that many people today profess to be followers of the Lord while rejecting the Gospel accounts of His life, the only source of men's knowledge of Him. Such people merely use the historical figure of Christ as an effigy on which to hang their own worldly ideas of what is admirable, just as the Roman soldiers clothed the condemned Lord in a purple robe and gave Him mock worship.

All the details of the crucifixion and burial of the Lord in their spiritual sense describe the states of the church at that time. Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus (John 19:38-40) represent the "intellectual" element, the chief priests and scribes the perverted element, and the Roman soldiers the Gentiles, whose minds were at least not closed willfully against the truth. The parting of the Lord's garments among the soldiers pictures the way in which people accept such truths as they see to be useful without taking the whole. The Lord's garments picture the Word in its letter. The "vesture" on which they cast lots was the inner garment, and represents the internal sense of the Word, which cannot be divided as the letter can.

