
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the various dangers mentioned makes a good study for this class. The teacher should think of simple illustrations of these dangers which will fall within the pupils' experience.

---
Psalms are songs, songs which were sung as part of the worship in the temple as well as at other times. The Jews did not consider them a part of the most sacred Scriptures, but the Lord, when He was talking to His disciples after His resurrection, named them with the Law and the Prophets and said they taught of Him (Luke 24:44). And when in His Second Coming He opened for us the inner meaning of the Scriptures, He enabled Swedenborg to see the spiritual sense of the Psalms.

Our lesson for today is Psalm 91. Many people know this Psalm by heart and many more know some verses from it. It is a very useful Psalm to learn because it reminds us that the Lord and the angels are always with us and that if we trust in the Lord and try to do right, nothing that happens to us can really hurt us. We are all often tempted to be afraid of various things and to worry when troubles come to us. If we think we have only ourselves to depend on, these fears and troubles will be too strong for us. But if we can remember that we are not alone at all, but that the Lord and the angels are always near us and ready to help us, we can face any trouble bravely. So if we have this Psalm in our minds and can say it to ourselves when we need help, it will always give us the courage we need.

Let us see what some of the dangers are from which the Lord can deliver us. We know that in the Word the Lord is telling us of spiritual rather than of material things. In verses 5 and 6 the dangers are divided into two classes: those that strike by day and those that come in the night. Day, when it is light, pictures the state when we see things plainly; night, when we cannot see very well, pictures a state of ignorance. We know that the things which are dangerous to our souls are evil and falsity. And if we think a little, we can see that there are some evils which creep into our hearts and some false ideas which we accept as true because we don't know any better. These are the "pestilence that walketh in darkness" and the "terror by night." Then there are other wrong desires which we know very well are wrong and yet we enjoy having them, and there are some falsities which we really know are false but like to believe just the same because they excuse the wrong things we are doing. These are the "destruction that wasteth as noonday" and the "arrow that flieth by day." The Lord can protect us against both these forms of evil and falsity if we try to keep close to Him by learning His truth and obeying it. "His truth shall be thy shield and buckler." Truth from the Word is the armor which can protect us.

Again, in verse 13, the lion and the young lion refer to the power of evil and the adder and the dragon to the power of falsity. We can remember this if we think how hateful feelings can tear us to pieces inside, and how false ideas can poison our minds. The "noisome pestilence" in verse 3 is the same evil which eats into our system, and the "snare of the fowler" the falsity which captures our thoughts.

Now let us think of verses 11 and 12. You have all been taught from childhood that guardian angels are always with us. Sometimes, however, we get hurt without any fault of our own and we may be tempted to ask why our guardian angels didn't take better care of us. Here again we must remember that it is our souls which are important — not our bodies — and that it is our souls which the angels are trying to protect. I wonder if you can see that to take these two verses literally would be a form of "falsification of truth" — see if you can remember what that is — and would turn them into a stone over which we might stumble. Do you remember the Gospel story of how the devil tempted the Lord in the wilderness? In the letter the devil quoted this very passage, but the Lord was not deceived. Read the story in Matthew 4:5-7.

The Lord answered the devil, "Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God." We tempt God when we try to see how far we can go in our selfish ways without getting into trouble, just as we tempt our parents sometimes until their patience with us is worn out. All the promises of our Psalm are made to those who dwell "in the secret place of the most High." We know that this cannot be said concerning our bodies. It is only with our souls that we can approach the Lord. Our bodies live in this material world in houses made with hands. But our real homes are where our souls are living, and each of us chooses where his soul shall live. If we let ourselves be selfish and just try to get our own way and look for excuses to do what we want to do, our souls are at home in hell, because selfishness and false reasonings are the life of the hells. But if we try to forget ourselves and to learn the Lord's ways and make other people happy, our souls are living in heaven even while we are in this world, and the Lord can protect and help us in everything we do.

The Psalm ends with the promise of long life. In the original Hebrew it says "length of days." When we remember what the day represents, we see that this means that our souls will be in the light of truth always.

