
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a good lesson in which to introduce the Older Children to the basic fact that in the Word the Lord is always speaking to us of our souls rather than of our bodies. If the class shows interest in this idea, the teacher may take up one or two of the dangers mentioned in Psalm 91 and show what they mean spiritually. This information will be found in the Younger Teen notes.

---
Our lesson for today is in the book of Psalms. A psalm is a song.

As they are printed in our Bible [KJV] the Psalms look just like all the rest of the Word. They do not look like poetry. But in the Hebrew language they are poetry, and we sometimes sing them as part of our church service. Because the English version of the Psalms is not written in meter like most songs, we have to have a special kind of music, called chanting, to enable us to sing the Psalms.

The Jews sang the Psalms as part of their temple worship. Their singing was a form of chanting, too, and they had choirs trained for just this purpose. In fact, certain families of the Levites handed this duty down from one generation to another. So their singing was famous. One of the Psalms written about the captivity of the people of Judah shows us this. Read Psalm 137. Then read Psalm 126, which tells how they sang when they were allowed to go back to their own land. They sang these songs so much that they felt that the words were their own instead of the Lord's; so to this day the Jews do not consider the book of Psalms as sacred as some of their Scriptures. But we have means of knowing better. You know perhaps that many of the Psalms are attributed to King David, who was a skillful player on the harp (1 Samuel 16:14-23), a musician as well as a warrior. But we read in 2 Samuel 23:1-2: "Now these be the last words of David. David the son of Jesse said, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said, The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue." David knew that the words of his Psalms were not his own, but were spoken through him by the Lord. And then we have another proof that the book of Psalms is part of the Word. When the Lord appeared to His disciples after His Resurrection, "He said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me." (Luke 24:44) The Psalms are songs written for us by the Lord to teach us about Himself and the feelings and thoughts we ought to have about Him, and to help us express those feelings and thoughts.

Our Psalm for today shows us what trust in the Lord can do for us as we go through life. To understand this Psalm we need to remember that it is our souls about which the Lord is talking to us. Our bodies are just a sort of clothing which we wear for a few years while we live in this world. What happens to our bodies is not really very important, although we should try to keep them in good condition so that we can be as useful as possible to our neighbors while we are here. But our souls are our real selves and they go on forever. It is our souls that feel love and hate, trust and fear, happiness and unhappiness. It is our souls that think. And it is our souls that act by means of our bodies. So what happens in our souls is very important. The person who in his soul wants to learn of the Lord and keep close to Him is "he that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High." He really lives with God. He knows that no matter what happens to him in the world — even if he has sickness and poverty and bereavement and disappointment — his soul is safe in the Lord's keeping. So he is not afraid of anything. It isn't what happens to our bodies that counts but the way our souls take what happens. We all admire brave people who can bear pain with a smile and stay friendly and cheerful instead of complaining of their troubles. We can all be like that if we try.

All the bad things that the Lord speaks of in this Psalm are really pictures of wrong thoughts and feelings which try to get into our hearts and minds and hurt us. But if we trust in the Lord — which means to know that He is always wise and right and therefore to do what He tells us to do — His angels will always be with us to help us fight off the ugly and harmful thoughts and feelings as they come. All these bad things come to us from the hells and we need the Lord and the angels to help us meet them. As you grow older, you will learn more and more about these enemies of our souls, but you need not be afraid of them if you begin now to deal with them as the Lord teaches us. One of the first and best ways is to learn as many verses from the Psalms as possible and use them when you are tempted. This is what is meant in verse 4 of Psalm 91 by the words, "His truth shall be thy shield and buckler." Each one of us is like a soldier fighting for the kingdom of God, and our armor is the Word, the Lord's truth.

