
=== Notes for Parents

Everyone loves the Psalms. This is because they are songs and songs touch our hearts, and because in the Psalms the Lord gives us beautiful words to express our hopes and our fears, our joyful states and our griefs, and above all our sense of our own weakness and need of Him. We are told that even the most hardened materialist will instinctively fall on his knees and pray in a time of great danger which he himself can do nothing to avert. In the bottom of our hearts we all know that there is a God and that we need His help. But we do not all admit that we know this.

We do not all take advantage of the privilege every man and woman has of living close to the Lord. We human beings have the power — which no animal has — of knowing the Lord, learning of Him, and walking in the light of His truth. In fact it is this power which makes us human. What a tragedy it is that any man or woman should choose to live like a mere animal!

In Psalm 91 the Lord, as everywhere in the Word, is speaking of our souls — the real person — not of our bodies. It is our souls that can dwell "in the secret place of the most High" and the dangers against which the Lord can guard us are dangers to our souls. In Psalm 64 we read of the wicked that they "whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words." The things which really hurt us are the false thoughts that make their way into our minds and the selfish desires that eat away our good intentions. These are our temptations and some of them come upon us unawares, like the "pestilence that walketh in darkness," and some we see clearly, like the "arrow that flieth by day," but still are unwilling to oppose. The Lord wants to keep us safe from all of them, and our guardian angels are always at hand ready to help us, but we must make the choice ourselves.

If we turn to the Lord, acknowledge our need of His help, and try to learn and obey His truth, all the promises of this Psalm will be fulfilled. But we must make the effort to learn the truth which can protect us from falsity and evil. "His truth shall be thy shield and buckler."

