
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a good lesson in which to urge the Older Teens to begin a regular program of reading in the Word and the writings. No habit will stand them in better stead as they go out into their independent lives in the world. It is this habit, together with the habits of prayer and of church attendance, which will keep them in safety close to the Lord.

---
With the end of 2 Kings we have finished with the narrative history of the Jews as representing the spiritual church in the world. The ancient Hebrew church was only representative of a church, because its worship was wholly external, but so long as the people observed the laws and statutes given them at Sinai, the Lord could maintain His connection with men through the correspondence of those rites. When, however, the nation ceased to observe them, it could no longer be even a representative of a church. So it was carried away into captivity, and the rest of its history to the time of the Advent of the Lord is barely mentioned in the books of the Word. We get most of our knowledge of the return from Babylon and the rebuilding of Jerusalem and the temple from the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, which are not part of the Word which has an inner sense. However, we also learn from 2 Kings 25:12 that when Judah was taken captive some of the "poor of the land" were left as vine dressers and husbandmen. That is, there were still some individuals left in whom there was humility before the Lord — these are what is meant by the "poor" throughout the Word — and we also know that there were some who even in captivity still observed the prescribed Jewish rites. We shall see this when we study the book of Daniel.

The book of Psalms is of a different character from all the other books of the Word. We know that it is a book of the Word because the Lord Himself tells us so in Luke 24:44. Swedenborg interprets the general meaning of each of the Psalms in a summary form in his work Prophets and Psalms, and he gives us the meaning of many individual verses in the course of his writings. There are, for example, twenty-two places in the writings in which he quotes one or more verses of Psalm 91 and in many of them explains their spiritual meaning. But the book of Psalms in its letter does not tell the history of the Jews or even of men in general. It is a book of songs, and songs are the expression of emotion. That is why people have always loved the Psalms and why they are easy to memorize. Every religious person can find particular Psalms which say what he feels and which bring him help from the Lord in his states of anxiety. In their inmost meaning the Psalms are expressions of the states through which the Lord passed when He was in the world, and we know that in some of them even in the letter there are prophecies of events in the Lord's life on earth. For example, compare Psalm 22, verses 1, 7, 8, and 18 with Matthew 27:46, Matthew 27:39, Matthew 27:43, and John 19:23-24.

Psalm 91, on which this lesson is centered, is a good Psalm to learn. We all have troubles in our outward life — disappointments, sicknesses, bereavements — and we are liable to feel alone and discouraged in the face of them. When such times come, repeat this Psalm and realize that it is forever true. The Lord and the angels are always at hand to help us. The Lord does not always save us from outward dangers and troubles — we need them to show us our own weakness, to broaden our sympathies, and to develop our spiritual strength. The Lord in the Word is always speaking of our souls rather than of our bodies. The dangers mentioned in Psalm 91 are spiritual dangers, evils and falsities from the hells. Some of them come upon us unawares; these are the dangers which are said to come in the night. Others are falsities and evils which we can clearly recognize but which we still want to think and do. These are the dangers which are said to attack by day. The Lord will save us from all these dangers if we dwell "in the secret place of the most High," that is, if in our inmost hearts we try to keep close to Him and trust His guidance.

But the Psalm also teaches us that there is more to this matter of trust in the Lord and our soul's safety than just a feeling. There is mental effort, too. "Under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler." Wings in the Word picture spiritual truths. We must want truth from the Lord — more and more truth and deeper and deeper truth — to use in our daily lives. If we are brought up in the church and go to Sunday school regularly, we learn a certain amount of this truth, but that is only the beginning. We must continue all our lives not only to read the Word regularly but to study for ourselves the writings which the Lord has given us in His Second Coming to open the inner meaning of the Word to our understanding. In @AC 4096 Swedenborg tells us that the understanding of spiritual truth in the Word can be given only to a mind "which has been instructed, and which perceives delight in the memory-knowledge of such things," and also that "The good which is of love and charity flows in from the Lord, and does so through angels who are with man; but not into anything else in him than his knowledges." You remember that we who live in the world today do not have a direct perception of the truth such as the people of the Most Ancient Church had, but that truth must be shown us in the knowledges which have entered our minds by an external way, as light from the sun reflected from the drops of water in the cloud makes the rainbow. Swedenborg says elsewhere, "The good love truth." We never in this world or in the next reach the point when we "know enough." The Lord can protect us in our temptations only as we seek to learn more and more of the Word and its meaning every day. "His truth shall be thy shield and buckler."

