
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The relation of the Acts and Epistles to the Word is important for all adults because we hear so much emphasis placed on the Epistles by non—New Church people. Many interesting points are suggested in the sections from the @AR , which may be read and discussed one by one.

---
In our study of the Gospel we saw how little the apostles, devoted though they were, understood the Lord's teaching, and how prone they were to forget things that He told them, and also at the end how weak was the flesh, however willing the spirit may have been. Only their contact with Him after the resurrection and their witness of His ascension (Mark 16:19) could have inspired in them the courage and perseverance with which they afterward accomplished their assigned task of preaching the Gospel to all the world (Mark 16:15). The record of their accomplishment is preserved for us in the book of the Acts of the Apostles, which is the basis of our knowledge of the beginnings of the Christian Church. Although the book of Acts — written by Luke — does not have an inner sense, and for this reason we do not study it in Sunday school, it gives us a certain background for our approach to the book of Revelation. It shows the bitterness of the opposition to the early Christians both by the Jews and by the Romans, and it also shows that the apostles did not always agree as to just what the teachings of the Lord were and how they should be applied in the daily life. The Epistles are further evidence of this, and while they contain many fine and helpful statements and much valuable information, we must still for our doctrine go to the Word itself.*

[*But several New Church doctrines are succinctly stated in the Epistles. -Editor]

Tradition says that all of the eleven apostles except John were martyred. John, the youngest of them, was the only one who lived to very old age. No doubt he was providentially protected that he might be the instrument through whom the great prophetic vision might be recorded which concludes our Word. This vision is thought to have been given him in the year A.D. 95, when he was about ninety years of age. Although he was living in exile on the island of Patmos, he was still looked to as the head of seven churches in Asia Minor. From the messages given him for these churches (chapters 2 and 3) we learn that even at that early date the different groups of Christians had developed different characteristics and ideas. Although we recognize these messages as applying in their inner meaning to the different types of Christian discipleship in all times, still they should show us how foolish it is for anyone to imagine that unanimity of belief and practice is possible today. One of the lessons of our chapter for today is that the Lord provides in the letter of the Word a guard over its inner truths for the very purpose of permitting differences of interpretation. In @AR 239 Swedenborg says: "The sense of the letter of the Word serves as a guard for the genuine truths which lie within; and the guard consists in this, that the literal sense can be turned hither and thither, that is, can be explained according to everyone's understanding, without its internal being hurt or violated; for no harm ensues from the literal sense being understood differently by different people; but it does harm when the Divine truths which are within are perverted, for it is by this that the Word suffers violence. To prevent this, the literal sense guards, and it guards with those who are in falsities from religion, but yet do not confirm them, for from these the Word suffers no violence. This guard is signified by 'cherubim,' and is also described by them in the Word."

The whole vision is a vision of judgment, a picture of how divine providence by means of the truths of the Word protects the good and separates them from the evil. This judgment goes on in each individual, but we know that the book of Revelation particularly describes the judgment which was to take place at the end of the first Christian dispensation, and the beginning of a new dispensation through the opening of the Word. Chapter 4, Swedenborg says, "treats of the arrangement and preparation of all things in heaven for the judgment, to be executed from the Word, and according to it; likewise concerning the acknowledgment that the Lord is the only judge" (Apocalypse Revealed introduction to chapter 4).

In studying this chapter we should begin by comparing it with earlier visions of very similar nature: Exodus 19:16, 24:9-10; Ezekiel 1 and 10; Isaiah 6:1-3; and Daniel 7:9-10. If we wish to study it in greater detail we should go to the @AE , but we shall find a condensed explanation, including a very brief summary interpretation, in the @AR Here we shall note that the voice of the trumpet always pictures the power of truth speaking, the throne judgment, and the four "beasts" or cherubim the guard the Lord provides against profanation.

In @AR 233 we read: "He who does not know the spiritual sense of the Word, and at the same time the genuine truths of the church, may believe, that when the Last Judgment shall come, the Lord will sit upon a throne, and that there will be other judges also upon thrones around Him. But he who knows the spiritual sense of the Word, and at the same time the genuine truths of the church, knows that the Lord will not then sit upon a throne, and that neither will there be other judges about Him; and further, that neither will the Lord judge anyone to hell, but that the Word will judge everyone, the Lord moderating that all things may be done according to justice ... 'Twelve' signifies all, and is predicated of the truths and goods of heaven and the church (n. 348); the same is signified by 'twenty-four'; therefore 'the twelve apostles' and the 'twenty-four elders' signify all things of the church; and 'twelve,' as also 'twenty-four thrones,' signify the all of judgment."

We are told in @AR 237 that by the seven lamps are signified "the New Church in heaven and on earth from the Lord through the Divine truth proceeding from Him," just as by the seven stars and the seven lampstands in Revelation 1:20, and in @AR 238 that "Before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal, signifies the New Heaven from Christians who are in general truths from the literal sense of the Word." The New Heaven referred to in the last quotation is the heaven which was formed at the time of the Second Coming from all the good souls of the first Christian Church who are described in Revelation 6:9-11.

We recognize in Revelation 4:8 one of the familiar responses which is sung in some of our churches, and another in Revelation 4:11 which appears in some of our responsive services. When we sing these, it will be helpful to remember that they are sung in heaven also and especially that if we sing them with sincere hearts, the Lord can make them a bulwark for us against many temptations.

