
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AR 231: "'A stone,' in the Word, signifies truth in ultimates, and 'a precious stone,' truth transparent from good (n. 915). There are two colors fundamental of the rest in the spiritual world, the color white and the color red. The color white derives its origin from the light of the sun in heaven, thus from spiritual light, which is shining white; and the color red derives its origin from the fire of the sun there, thus from celestial light, which is flamy ... This is the reason why precious stones, in the Word, signify such things as are of the truth of wisdom, or of the good of love, and that 'the jasper,' because it is shining white, signifies the things which are of the truth of wisdom; and 'the sardius,' because it is red, the things which are of the good of love."

@AR 232: "In the spiritual world there appear rainbows of many kinds, they appear of various colors as upon the earth, and they appear of one color; here of one color, because it is said 'like unto an emerald.' ... The Divine sphere which surrounds the Lord is from His Divine love, and at the same time from His Divine wisdom, which, when it is represented in the heavens, appears in the celestial kingdom red like a ruby, in the spiritual kingdom blue like the lapis lazuli, in the natural kingdom green like the emerald; everywhere with ineffable splendor and radiance."

@AR 238: "And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal, signifies the New Heaven from Christians who are in general truths from the literal sense of the Word. In the spiritual world there appear atmosphere, and also waters, like as in our world; the atmospheres, in which the angels of the highest heaven dwell, are as it were ethereal; the atmospheres, in which the angels of the middle heaven dwell, are as it were aerial; and the atmospheres, in which the angels of the lowest heaven dwell, are as it were aqueous; and these last appear as seas at the boundaries of heaven, where they dwell who are in general truths from the literal sense of the Word. ... by 'the sea of glass' which was before the throne, is meant the church among those who are at the boundaries ... It is called 'a sea of glass like unto crystal,' from the pellucidity of the Divine truth proceeding from the Lord."

