
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Take up the outline of the correspondence, enlarging on it as the young people show interest. Stress the fact that judgment is according to truth, as this will be good preparation for later lessons.

---
In Mark 16:19 we are told of the Lord's ascension. This took place forty days after the resurrection and is most fully described in Acts 1:1-12. The book of Acts — the Acts of the Apostles — tells the story of the beginnings of the Christian Church. This book and the twenty-one Epistles — letters written by the apostles and others to the groups of Christians which they organized — do not have an inner sense and so we do not study them in Sunday school, but they are very valuable historical books and interesting to all Christians. The apostles did go out all over the then—known world and preach the Gospel. Everywhere they went they found some people who were hungry for the good news they had to give of the life of the Lord and the salvation He had made possible. And the Christian Church grew so fast that the Roman government soon began to be suspicious of it and tried to stamp it out. Tradition says that all the apostles except John died martyrs' deaths.

Tradition also says that John was the youngest of the apostles and lived to be about ninety. Near the end of his life he was exiled by the Romans to the little island of Patmos off the coast of Asia Minor. John had been in charge of seven of the Christian churches which had been organized in Asia Minor. At Patmos he was given the vision which is recorded in the book of Revelation, the last book in our Bible and the final book of the Word. We are told in Revelation 1:19 and in the first verse of our chapter for today that it is a book of prophecy. As we have seen, it begins (chapter 1) with a vision of the Lord — whom John recognized as the same master he had followed in the world — reigning in heaven. Then (chapters 2 and 3) John was given messages to his seven churches in Asia which show us what their inner states were. They were all different; they had good characteristics and bad ones, and they were warned to repent and correct their faults if they wished to remain true representatives of the Lord in the world.

In the Acts and Epistles we learn that very soon after the Lord left them the apostles began to come into differences of opinion as to how His teachings were to be applied to life. They remembered His words but interpreted them differently. We can understand from this why there are so many Christian sects today. The Lord does not force any one of us to think in one way or another, and we are all different; so we draw different ideas from the Lord's teaching. Still we should all be studying the Word and doing our best to understand and obey it. If we are, the Lord can lead us to heaven, even though we may sometimes misunderstand what we read. But if, instead of this, we are forming our opinions according to our own desires and then trying to find in the Word only what confirms our own chosen opinions, we are not open to the truth in it and the Lord cannot lead us. In the Christian Church — in all Christian churches — there have always been true followers of the Lord and others who only pretended to follow Him. And we know that in each one of us there are tendencies both to good and to evil. The Lord and the angels are working to protect the good and to control the evil both in the individual and in the church. So there is a spiritual war going on all the time, and when we come into the other world there is a time of judgment when the good and the evil are separated. It is this war and the resulting judgment which were shown to John in a series of wonderful living pictures of which the first is our chapter for today.

This vision is very much like one which the prophet Ezekiel had had long before. Read Ezekiel 1:26-28. Read also Exodus 19:16 and 24:10. A trumpet always means the power of the Lord's truth speaking, and a throne is the picture of judgment. It is of course the Lord who sits upon the throne, executing judgment by means of the truth. The precious stones picture the way in which the truth appears to those who love it, showing many different beauties, like the different colors, but always clear and shining, and the sea of glass pictures the clear atmosphere in which even the people of the natural heaven live. The rainbow which Ezekiel saw appeared to John, too. A rainbow is formed by the rays of the sun reflected from raindrops. For us the truths we learn from the Word are spiritual raindrops, and when we realize that the Lord is speaking to us in them, they become shining and beautiful and many—colored.

Now read Ezekiel 1:5-14. The "living creatures" Ezekiel saw are the same "beasts" which John saw. In fact the Greek word translated "beasts" [KJV] would be better translated "living creatures." See if you can remember from our lesson on Ezekiel what the lion, the calf, the man, and the eagle picture. These living creatures are not actual, even in the spiritual world: they are "cherubim," symbolic figures representing the protecting power which divine providence exercises through the letter of the Word. That is why they are said to be "full of eyes before and behind," because the Lord sees everything, past, present, and future. Their wings picture the power of the Word to lift out thoughts above the earth.

The twenty-four elders in white garments represent all the good people who have made their thoughts clean by learning the truth, and the crowns of gold show that they have overcome their temptations by means of unselfish love. "Elders" is a name given to people in churches who are looked up to as wiser than others. If we live rightly, we all may grow to be "elders" in this sense, because we become wiser with every year. But if we do not live rightly, we do not become wise with age.

The chapter closes with the worship of the Lord by the creatures and the elders. So John was assured at the beginning of his vision that the Lord rules everything in heaven. He was to see some terrible dangers, and he needed to be sure from the start that the Lord would win the victory. We need to be sure of this, too. The book is written for us.

