
=== Junior

After your introduction, in connection with which you should use a map, have the class look up the Bible references and compare the various visions, picking out the similarities. Stress the fact that everyone in heaven worships the Lord.

---
Between the Gospels and the book of Revelation we find in our Bibles twenty-two books. The first — the only one of any length - is called the Acts of the Apostles, and is an account of the first beginnings of the Christian Church and also many things about what the apostles themselves thought. If we read these books attentively, we shall find that the apostles and others who went out to preach the Gospel did not always agree as to just what the Lord meant people to do. So we cannot take our instruction from them, although they said many fine and helpful things. We must study the Word itself. And after the Acts and the Epistles there comes one more book of the Word, the book of Revelation.

The book of Revelation, as we have already noted, is the record of the visions given to the apostle John when he was a very old man. Tradition says that he was the youngest of the apostles and outlived all of them. Judas, we remember, hanged himself before the crucifixion, and again tradition says that all the others except John were martyred sooner or later. This was because the Christian Church grew so fast that the Roman government was afraid of its power and tried to stamp it out.

John was no doubt protected by the Lord so that he might be the instrument through whom the final book of the Word might be given. But he, as we learned from Revelation 1:9, was finally exiled to the island of Patmos off the coast of Asia Minor. You can find this island on a map of the area, as well as the part of the world covered in the journeys of the apostles and the location of the seven churches in Asia Minor over which John himself had supervision. That these churches were quite different — people are bound to differ in their opinions and likes — we have learned from the messages which the Lord gave John for them (Revelation 2, 3) praising them for their good characteristics but also pointing out certain evils into which they had already fallen, and warning them to correct these evils.

John was first given a wonderful vision of the Lord as He is seen in the heavens, and yet John could recognize Him as the same master he had followed in the world (Revelation 1:13). Then followed the messages to the seven churches in Asia Minor, and then a long and detailed vision of the spiritual course which the Christian Church would take, the war within it between the forces of the Lord and the forces of evil, the judgment which would be executed upon it, and the final coming of a new church. We may think of this amazing vision as a sort of tremendous moving picture acted out before John's spiritual eyes to teach him and us deep spiritual lessons. John says he was in the spirit (Revelation 1:10, 4:2) when he saw these things. Our chapter for today is the beginning of the picture of the judgment.

What was the first thing John saw after the door was opened in heaven?

Who do you think was the one who sat upon the throne?

What men were around the throne?

How were they dressed?

What other creatures were about the throne?

Do you remember one of our lessons from Ezekiel? Ezekiel, nearly seven hundred years before John, saw a very similar vision. If you have forgotten, read Ezekiel 1:4-18 to see how many things were similar, and then read Ezekiel 10:1 to see what the four living creatures were called. We should know that the Greek word translated "beasts" [KJV] in our chapter for today might better be translated "living creatures" as the Hebrew word is in the first chapter of Ezekiel. In our church service some of us use the words which the living creatures spoke (Revelation 4:8), and also we may be familiar with Revelation 4:11 because it is sung in some of our responsive services.

We may think of the whole chapter as picturing the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ reigns in heaven and that everyone in heaven worships Him and is governed by Him.

