
=== Notes for Parents

The book of Revelation is the final book of the Word of God.

It is also sometimes called the Apocalypse, which is just the Greek work for revelation. It is the record of a long and wonderful vision which was given to the apostle John when he was a very old man, probably ninety years old. Tradition says that he was the only one of the apostles — except Judas, who hanged himself from remorse - who did not die a martyr's death, because both the leaders of Judaism and the Roman government were afraid of the growing Christian Church and tried to stamp it out. John was not put to death, but he was exiled to the little island of Patmos off the coast of Asia Minor, where the vision was given him.

The word revelation means an "unveiling." John says that when this vision was given him, he was "in the spirit," and he was told to write "the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter." So this book is first of all a description of spiritual conditions, states which exist in the hearts and minds of men, and it is a prophecy of what these states will inevitably lead to.

It is such a strange and powerful vision that it has always captured the imaginations of men and led them to try to think what it can mean, and many things in it have been applied at one time or another to events which have been taking place in the world, especially to great wars and battles, for all through the book conflicts are described. But we should realize that all these things are given us as symbolic pictures of a spiritual conflict which goes on all the time, the conflict between good and evil in our hearts and between truth and falsity in our minds. It is a picture of judgment given to show us the inevitable results of evil and falsity and to help us choose what is good and true.

The chapter the children have for today sets the stage for this great conflict, for it shows us that in heaven it is the Lord who reigns and that everyone and everything there loves to acknowledge and worship Him.

