
=== Primary

The children will be interested in John and in the vision itself; so the reading of the chapter should come early in the lesson. They may remember the word cherubim in our study of Ezekiel and should be reminded of it. Tell them the colors of the precious stones mentioned and connect Revelation 4:8 with its use in the church service.

---
The Lord when He was on earth chose twelve of His disciples to receive special instructions and powers from Him so that after He left them they could go out all over the world and preach the Gospel — the "good news" — that He had overcome evil and would give to all who would learn of Him and obey Him the power to overcome their temptations and become heavenly people. These twelve men were called the apostles, which means men "sent out." The three apostles who were closest to the Lord were Peter, James, and John. All the apostles except Judas were faithful, and did the work the Lord had given them to do.

The apostle who apparently lived longest was John. He is believed to have lived to be nearly ninety and he was in charge of several of the early churches. Before he died he was given a wonderful vision of what would happen to this new church which was called Christian. We have been studying this vision as described in the book of Revelation, the last book in the Bible.

First John saw the Lord as He may be seen in the heavens, and he recognized Him as the same Lord he had known and followed on earth.

Then he was shown how everyone is judged according to the truth which is in the Word.

Our lesson today is the beginning of this vision of the judgment.

Read the chapter and then see how many of the details of the vision you can remember.

Do you remember our lesson about Ezekiel's vision?

Nearly seven hundred years before John, Ezekiel had seen some of the same things.

The "beasts" [KJV] in our chapter are the same "living creatures" seen by Ezekiel.

They are also called cherubim.

We can easily see that the Lord himself was the king sitting on the throne, whom everyone and everything in heaven worships. Do you go to church with your parents? If you do, listen carefully to the singing, and you may hear some of the very words that John heard in heaven. This is because when we are in church, we are worshiping the Lord with the angels.

