
=== Senior

This class will be interested in the fact that differences in belief and practice began early in the Christian Church, and also in the way in which the letter of the Word serves as a guard to the genuine truth within. They should learn that the whole book of Revelation is a prophecy of the end of the first Christian dispensation and the beginning of the New Church era.

---
The book of Revelation is also called the Apocalypse, which is a Greek word meaning "revelation." The Jews think of the Old Testament as composed of the Law and the Prophets. In the New Testament the four Gospels may be thought of as the Law and the book of Revelation as the Prophets. For the "new covenant" for the Christian Church is given in the Gospel record of the Lord's life and teaching, and the book of Revelation is a prophecy of what would happen to the first Christian Church, founded on a literal interpretation of this new law, and a prophecy of the final coming of a new Christian Church when the true spiritual interpretation could be revealed to men.

The beginning of the external history of the first Christian Church is given us in the book of Acts and the twenty-one Epistles which, although they are books which lack the inner sense, are very valuable to all Christians not only as history but because they give us some idea of what the apostles themselves thought about the Lord's teaching. We do not study them in Sunday school because we should draw our instruction from the Word rather than from the thoughts of men, but you should become familiar with them because they contain many fine statements and much useful information and because they are regarded as authoritative by other Christians who do not have our doctrine of the Word.

John, as we learn from Revelation 1:9, was in exile on the island of Patmos. He was the last of the apostles. The Roman government had tried to suppress the Christian Church from the beginning, and tradition has it that all the apostles except John died a martyr's death. If this is true, no doubt John was providentially protected so that he might be the instrument through whom the Lord could give this final prophecy.

John's mind was led step by step into the prophetic details of his vision. First (chapter 1) he was given to see that the master whom he had followed in the world was indeed the almighty God. Then (chapters 2 and 3) by the messages to the seven churches under his care he was shown the inner condition of the groups of Christians which already existed and their relation to the future of the church.

Then, in the first verse of our chapter for today, we read that he saw a door opened in heaven and heard the trumpet—like voice telling him to come up and see there a vision of things to come. And the first thing he saw was again the Lord, this time seated on His throne, the Lord executing judgment by means of the truth.

Every detail of the vision has to do with the beauty and power of truth: the throne itself, which represents judgment; the precious stones, which represent truths made clear and brilliant by love of them; the rainbow, truth as it is reflected in the knowledges of the letter of the Word which we receive in our minds; the white raiment of the elders, truth expressed in life, "the righteousness of saints" (Revelation 19:8); the sea of glass, the clear atmosphere of the ultimates of heaven; and the four "beasts" or cherubim, which picture the Lord's protection of inner truth by means of the letter of the Word.

The chapter should be compared with Ezekiel's vision (Ezekiel 1 and 10), Isaiah's (Isaiah 6:1-3), Daniel's (Daniel 7:9-10); and with the vision granted to Moses and the elders of Israel at Sinai (Exodus 24:10).

John needed this vision of the glory and power of the truth he was to proclaim. He was to see terrible things portrayed, but he knew from the beginning that the armies of evil would inevitably fail.

We need this reassurance also. Our world today is shaken by fear of the future. Evil forces seem to be abroad, and the voices which speak for love and peace seem weak. But the Lord is with those who proclaim His truth. They may have great tribulation, but they will conquer in the end. "For there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few." (1 Samuel 14:6) Each of us can do a great deal of good in our world today by speaking and living without fear, believing in the Lord's Word with its laws and its promises, and putting our whole trust in Him. We can worship every Sunday with the very words of this vision: "Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come." So we help to establish the Lord's kingdom on earth. We cannot establish it by looking to men for wisdom.

