
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In preparation for this lesson the teacher should read carefully the Senior as well as the Adult notes, as his particular class may be much interested in a discussion of the departure from the Lord's teaching and the turning to human intelligence instead which has caused the downfall of each succeeding church on earth, including the first Christian Church.

---
Recall the Lord's miracle at Cana, when He turned water into wine. There the wine, in contrast to the water, signified spiritual truth, truth about the Lord and our relation to Him, truth effective for our regeneration, the rebirth of which the Lord told Nicodemus. Now the Lord calls Himself the true vine, the source of all spiritual truth, apart from which we can do no genuine good.

In discussing the meaning of the vineyard and the vine Swedenborg tells us that we cannot understand it unless we know that there is a celestial church and a spiritual church, the one made up of those who receive the Lord primarily in their wills, and the other of those who receive Him primarily in their understandings; the olive yard is the symbol of the one, the vineyard of the other. The Most Ancient Church was of the celestial type and the Ancient Church of the spiritual. That is why it is said that Noah, the symbolic founder of the Ancient Church, "planted a vineyard" (Genesis 9:20). We remember also that Israel, the name given to Jacob after he returned to the Holy Land from Haran, is used in the Word to signify the spiritual church, of which the Jewish Church was representative. So throughout the Old Testament the vineyard and the vine are mentioned in connection with the name Israel (Jeremiah 2:14, 21; Hosea 10:1). The Lord came as the truth, "a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel" (Luke 2:32). He came to restore to the world knowledge of spiritual truth, because Israel had become indeed an "empty vine." The perversion of the truth which had been entrusted to them is described in Isaiah 5:1-7 under the symbolism of a carefully prepared and planted vineyard which brought forth wild grapes instead of its intended fruit, and the character of those who were responsible for this perversion is pictured in Isaiah 5:20-23. In Psalm 80 the figure of a vineyard is again used to describe the state of the good and innocent and their need of a savior.

So the Word made flesh, divine truth clothed in a form adapted to the comprehension of men, is indeed the true vine. The New Testament treats of the spiritual church in the beautiful parables of the vineyard (Matthew 20:1-16, 21:33-45; Mark 12:1-12; Luke 20:9-16), as well as in Revelation 14:17-20, where judgment is described as the harvesting of the fruit of the vine. The vineyard, the vine, the grapes, the wine are so frequently mentioned throughout the Word that there are many references to them in the writings (see particularly @AC 1069, 5113, and 9139). In our lesson the Lord speaks of Himself as the vine and of the Father as the husbandman. It is "the Father," divine love, which plants, sustains, and tends the vineyard, but "the Son," divine truth, is the vine by whose means the grapes and wine are produced. If we are to produce any good fruit we must be branches of this vine, we must draw spiritual truth from the life and teaching of the Lord, our minds must be formed according to the truth which He gives us — not according to any ideas of our own or of other men.

But there is more to abiding in the vine than merely to know the Lord's teachings. In John 15:10 the Lord tells us what it is to abide in Him: "If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love." Swedenborg explains the "mechanics" of this statement in @TCR 70, as follows: "From the Divine omnipresence man is in God to the extent that he lives in accordance with order, for the reason that God is omnipresent; and where God is in His Divine order, there He is in Himself, because He is order, as has been shown above. Since, then, man was created a form of Divine order, God is in him — fully in him to the extent that he is living in accordance with Divine order. Nevertheless, God is in him if he is not living in accordance with Divine order, but only in the highest regions in him, thereby giving him the ability to understand what is true and to will what is good; that is, giving him the faculty of understanding and the inclination to love. But so far as man lives contrary to order he shuts up the lower regions of his mind or spirit, and thus prevents God's descending and filling those lower regions with His presence; consequently, while God is in him, he is not in God." So the Lord says, "He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit." No matter how much we may know of the Lord's teachings, if we do not live according to them, we are spiritually barren branches, our souls wither, and our evils cut us off from the Lord and consume us. "If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned." It is only when we act according to the truth which we receive from the Lord that we bring forth spiritual fruit. And this bearing of fruit is the whole purpose of our life in this world: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain."

However, as we have noticed in other lessons, the Lord does not permit us to imagine that a mere external keeping of the law is sufficient. He says, "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you." "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." The Lord literally laid down His life for us at the crucifixion, but this was only the symbol of the work which He had been doing all along, laying down every selfish impulse and thought day by day: "Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he [the Father, divine love] taketh away; and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit." When He tells us to love one another as He loved us, He is telling us to lay down our life, our selfish desires and ambitions, day by day. So we become His friends by understanding His loving ways, instead of servants who merely obey from fear or from a sense of duty. It is by obeying His commandments inwardly as well as outwardly that we can overcome the world, even as He overcame it. He does not tell us that our way will be easy, but that the victory is sure. "In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world."

The lesson should be emphasized that nothing is genuinely good which does not include recognition of the Lord and obedience to Him within it. We are to abide in the vine. It is the Lord's truth we are to seek, the Lord's commandments we are to follow, not the standards of the world or our own ideas of what is right. We hear people praising themselves for their kindness to others; we all do it inwardly at least part of the time; and when we do, we may be sure that our kindness is to some extent inwardly selfish and not done from the Lord. Even charity done in the name of the church is not free from this taint. The Lord says: "Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity." How can one who goes to church, keeps the laws, is honest and industrious, and kind and generous to his neighbors "work iniquity"? He may be doing all these things for the sake of self, for his reputation and his self-satisfaction. Good works must be inwardly good. In @DP 215 Swedenborg compares good works done for worldly ends with the same works done from love to the Lord and the neighbor: "One is like artificial fruit, which in external form appears like fruit from a tree, although it is colored wax containing within it dust or bitumen; while the other is like excellent fruit, pleasing in taste and smell, and containing seeds within."

