
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Juniors can understand a good deal of the correspondence of this lesson, and it offers a good opportunity to teach them the principle of correspondence and to familiarize them with the word "correspondence" as it is used in the New Church. The immediate practical lesson for them is suggested in the last paragraph of their notes.

---
Notice that in the Gospel of John there are five whole chapters between the account of the Lord's entry into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday and chapter 18, which tells of His betrayal by Judas on the Thursday night of that same week. This is because John gives us less about the external facts of the Lord's life on earth and more of His teachings, and some of the deepest of these teachings were given to His disciples during the last week of His life. Our lesson for today is an example of this deeper instruction.

When we had our lesson on the Lord's first miracle at Cana, you may have wondered how the Lord could turn water into wine without any grapes. Here we have a clear answer. "I am the true vine." This has a deeper meaning which you will study when you are a little older, but you can see something about it now. The Lord is the creator of everything in the natural world, and it is His life flowing in which gives everything the power to continue to exist and to bear fruit. We must always try to remember this, for to us, while we live in this world, material things seem to exist of themselves. When the Lord was living in the world in a finite body, He could exercise His power directly and immediately, and this is the explanation of His many miracles.

Because the Lord has created everything, each thing in nature is an outward expression of something in the Lord. As the teachings of the New Church say, each thing in nature "corresponds" to something spiritual and divine which is its cause. As you grow older, you will learn more and more about these correspondences; you already know some of them, such as the correspondence of fire to love and of light to truth. Most of you know the parable of the sower. If you do not remember it, you will find it in Matthew 13:3-9. And in Matthew 13:18-23 the Lord explains the parable to His disciples, showing us that seed corresponds to truth from the Word and the fruit which is produced from the seed to the good which is developed in our lives, as we obey what we learn of the truth.

In the vegetable kingdom there are three fruits which are mentioned again and again in the Word: the olive, the grape, and the fig. These three correspond to good in the three planes of our life: our will, our thoughts, and our acts. Now read Isaiah 5:1-7. This means that the Lord gave the Word of the Old Testament so that people might know the truth and do good in the world by means of it. But instead, this "vineyard" brought forth "wild grapes." The scribes and Pharisees used the Scriptures to make themselves powerful instead of to help and guide those who wanted to know how to be good. They were branches that did not abide in the vine.

What does the Lord say happens to those who do not abide in Him?

How can we abide in Him?

What special commandment does the Lord give us in this chapter?

Read carefully John 15:16. This shows us just what our lives are for. Sometimes people think they are better than others because they have joined the church and do things which their community recognizes as good. If they think in this way, they are not better — often they are worse — because they are taking credit to themselves for goodness instead of recognizing that all goodness is the Lord's. Did you ever try to bite into a piece of artificial fruit? No deeds of ours — however good they may appear to be — are really good unless the life of the Lord, life from the true vine, is in them. Try to learn never, even in your thoughts, to praise yourself for being good.

