
=== Notes for Parents

The twelve chosen disciples of the Lord had been with Him throughout His ministry, traveling about the country with Him, seeing all His miracles, and listening while He taught the people. He had also given them much special instruction. Several times we are told how, after the multitude dispersed, He took His disciples aside and explained to them more fully the meaning of what He had been saying. A good example of this is found in the story of the parable of the sower in Matthew 13:1-23. During the last few days of His earthly life — between Palm Sunday and the crucifixion — the Lord gave the disciples more direct and deep instruction than He had ever given before, much of which we find recorded only in the Gospel of John.

Our lesson today was spoken by the Lord in the upper room in Jerusalem after they had partaken of the Last Supper and after Judas had gone out to make his final arrangements for the betrayal of his Master.

All through the Word the church on earth is described by the symbol of a vineyard. Read Isaiah 5:1-7, where under the figure of a vineyard the prophet tells what the church had done to the divine truth entrusted to it. The "wild grapes," as we can easily see, were the false requirements which the scribes and Pharisees had substituted for the life of true charity commanded by the Scriptures.

Now, at the close of His life on earth, the Lord is charging His disciples not to repeat this sin as they go out to found a new church. He tells them that He is the true vine and that they cannot bear good fruit unless they are careful to remain true to His teachings. For, just as in the parable of the sower the seed represents the Word of God, so the Lord, who was the Word made flesh, is divine truth, the only source of our knowledge of the good or heavenly life. The grapes we are to bring forth are works of charity, but these must not be merely external benefactions, for such things may be done without any real thought of God in them. If we give ourselves credit for the good we do, it is not inwardly good at all. The Lord says to us, as He said to His disciples in that last solemn charge: "This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you." To know just how the Lord loved us we must study His life and words, for only by trying to follow His example can we produce good fruit.

