
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The quotation from the writings found at the end of this lesson leads easily into a discussion of the cause of the fall of each of the four churches which preceded the New Church, and makes the teaching of our chapter a very solemn charge to our young people just starting out in the church.

---
The passage quoted at the end of this lesson occurs in the writings in connection with the explanation of Genesis 9:20: "And Noah ... planted a vineyard." This is the first of a great number of passages in the Word in which the vineyard, the vine, and grapes figure. The Most Ancient Church, described by Adam and Eve and their descendants, was a "celestial" church; that is, in the beginning it was in love to the Lord, and the Lord could enlighten and direct its people by influx into their wills. But after the will of these people became selfish, the influx from the Lord was turned by their wills from truth into falsity, and the Most Ancient Church came to its end in a great flood of falsity and evil. Then the Lord separated the will and the understanding in men so that they no longer had to think just as they felt, and the Ancient Church, pictured by Noah, was raised up. This was a "spiritual" church, in which men first received the truth into their minds and then by obeying it could be given a new will. This is why it is said that Noah planted a vineyard, for a vineyard represents the spiritual church, the vine being spiritual truth and the grapes spiritual good. But Genesis 9:21 tells us that Noah "drank of the wine, and was drunken," which means that the people of that church soon began to use the wonderful truth that was given them to exalt themselves, and we remember that this tendency ended in the tower of Babel and the dispersion and vastation of the Ancient Church.

This story about Noah has a very close connection with our chapter for today. At the end of the Ancient Church the Lord had given a new Word to the world through the Israelitish nation, who through it became not a true church but the correspondential representative of a true spiritual church. This church again is pictured as a vineyard. Read Isaiah 5:1-7. The traditions with which the scribes and Pharisees had overlaid the Scriptures were the "wild grapes" which that church had produced instead of its true fruit.

Now the Israelitish Church was at its end and the Lord was providing for the beginning of a new spiritual church in the world through His apostles. The teaching of our chapter was given to the eleven after they had partaken of the Last Supper on the eve of the crucifixion — Judas had already gone out to arrange for the betrayal of the Lord. And what the Lord was really saying to the eleven was: "Do not do as the earlier churches did; do not pervert the truth I have given you by imagining it is produced by your own minds and mixing it with your own ideas." Over and over again He said to them, "Abide in me." The vine in its highest sense represents "the Lord as to Divine truth." In the first chapter of John we learned that the Lord came into the world as the Word made flesh. And now in the same Gospel He says, "I am the true vine." Unless we study what the Lord Himself tells us and look to Him alone for guidance, there is no life in any of the apparent good we do; we cannot bear fruit.

The apostles were faithful to the Lord's charge, but we know that afterward the first Christian Church, like all that had preceded it, began to pervert and confuse the Lord's teachings — to separate itself from the vine. The Lord foresaw that this would happen and described it for us in the visions given to John at Patmos. As you go out into the world and attend other churches besides the New Church, you will find that some base their preaching and teaching for the most part upon what Paul and later men said rather than upon what the Lord Himself said. Their basic doctrines stem from the decisions made by men at the Council of Nicea in A.D. 325.

The Lord has had to come again to clear away these traditions and restore to us divine truth, enabling us to read the Word with understanding. You may know the motto of the New Church: "Nunc licet" = "now it is permitted" to enter intellectually into the mysteries of faith. [See @TCR 508[3].] But this does not mean that we may now twist divine truth this way and that to suit our convenience. The Lord says to us today, as He said to the eleven at the Last Supper: "If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered." And He says to us also: "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain." It is divine providence which has cast your lot in the New Church. The Lord has a work for you to do which no one else can do. But if you do not abide in Him, your fruit will not remain. And He says, "If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love."

