
=== Adult

A brief verse—by—verse study of the lesson should be made in this class, after speaking of the reason for the name of this special day. Then ask for questions, and discuss whatever they bring out.

In our lessons from the book of Revelation, we have studied the nature and purpose of John's vision, the different types of reaction to the Lord and His Word which appear in the Lord's Church on earth and in each one of us individually, the nature of the final Church in heaven and on earth pictured as the holy city New Jerusalem, and what is required of each of us who wishes to live within that holy city.

In @TCR 791 Swedenborg tells us the basis for celebrating "New Church Day." See the quotation below.

Our lesson for today, the last nine verses of the Word, gives us really a summary of the whole teaching of the Word and of our duty as members of the Lord's New Church. First (Revelation 22:13), we must recognize the Lord Jesus Christ as the one God of heaven and earth, our creator and our guide forever. Second (Revelation 22:14), if we wish to dwell in peace and happiness in the holy city both here and when we pass from this world, we must keep His commandments. Third (Revelation 22:15), we must be aware of the many temptations to evil which surround us in this world. Fourth (Revelation 22:16), the Lord has made available to us all the truth we need now and for all future time. Fifth (Revelation 22:17), the Lord offers us this truth freely to understand and to use from day to day. Sixth (Revelation 22:18), He tells us plainly that if we try to add our own ideas of what is true and right to what the Lord has said, we shall get into serious trouble. Seventh (Revelation 22:19), if we try to change and reject what the Lord says in order to make it suit our finite desires, we shall not be able to live in the holy city at all. Eighth (Revelation 22:20), we should accept gladly the fact that the Lord has made His Second and final Coming. And ninth (Revelation 22:21), we should all recognize our own weakness, and look to the Lord for forgiveness and love.

You will find very interesting statements in regard to the Second Coming in @TCR 768-790, 846-847, and in @AR 875.

