THE

Miracles

OF

JESUS CHRIST

EXPLAINED

ACCORDING TO THEIR SPIRITUAL MEANING, 
in the way of

QUESTION AND ANSWER.

BY THE REV. J. CLOWES, M.A 

MANCHESTER:

Printed for a SOCIETY of GENTLEMEN, by J. GLEAVE, 196 DEANSGATE.

1816 and 1817.

Republished at www.BibleMeanings.info 
© I.J. Thompson, 2005. 

Table of Contents

Introductory Remarks on Miracles..............................................................................................3
The Leper Cleansed.....................................................................................................................6
The Centurion's Servant Healed................................................................................................10
Peter's Wife's Mother Healed....................................................................................................14
The Devils Cast Out..................................................................................................................16
The Wind and Waves Rebuked.................................................................................................19
The Possessed With Devils Coming Out of the Tombs.............................................................23
The Sick Of The Palsy Healed..................................................................................................26
The Ruler's Daughter Raised.....................................................................................................30
The Bloody Issue Cured............................................................................................................33
The Two Blind Men Restored To Sight.....................................................................................36
The Devil Cast Out From the Dumb Man.................................................................................39
The Withered Hand Restored....................................................................................................43
The Devil Cast Out From the Blind and Dumb........................................................................47
Miracle of the Five Loaves and Two Fishes..............................................................................50
Jesus Walking on the Sea..........................................................................................................56
The Sick Healed in the Land Of Gennesareth...........................................................................61
The Devil Cast Out From the Daughter of the Woman of Canaan...........................................64
The Lame, Blind, Dumb, Maimed, and Many Others Healed..................................................69
The Miracle Of The Seven Loaves And Fishes.........................................................................72
The Transfiguration...................................................................................................................75
The Lunatic Healed...................................................................................................................81
The Piece of Money Found in the Fish's Mouth.......................................................................85
Sight Restored a Second Time to Two Blind Men....................................................................89
The Barren Fig-Tree Cursed......................................................................................................92
The Miraculous Draught Of Fishes...........................................................................................95
The Widow's Son Raised.........................................................................................................100
The Woman Who Had A Spirit Of Infirmity...........................................................................103
The Dropsy Cured...................................................................................................................107
The Ten Lepers Cleansed.........................................................................................................111
The Water Turned Into Wine...................................................................................................115
The Impotent Man at The Pool of Bethesda...........................................................................120
Sight Restored To The Man Blind From His Birth.................................................................124
Lazarus Raised from the Dead................................................................................................129
The Resurrection And Ascension Of Jesus Christ...................................................................134
The Miracle of Pentecost.........................................................................................................143
Conclusion...............................................................................................................................150
Prayer......................................................................................................................................154
Translations from Original Text..............................................................................................155

- 2-

Introductory Remarks on Miracles

Q. What do you mean by a Miracle?

A. A Miracle is the manifestation of a supernatural Power controlling, in some degree, the 
Common or established laws of nature.

Q. How many kinds of Miracles are there?

A. Miracles in general may be referred to two classes, Divine Miracles, and what may be called 
magical or infernal Miracles.

Q. What do you mean by a Divine Miracle?

A. A Divine Miracle is the exertion and effect of a supernatural agency, exercised by the 
ALMIGHTY HIMSELF for the benefit of Mankind.

Q. And what do you mean by a magical or infernal Miracle?

A. A magical or infernal Miracle is the exercise and effect of magical and infernal agency, 
separated from Divine Agency, and in opposition to it.

Q. Can you tell me any instances of this latter agency, as recorded in the WORD of GOD?

A. It is written in the book of Exodus, that when Moses lifted up the rod, and smote the waters 
that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants, all the waters that 
were in the river were turned to blood; and the fish that were in the river died, and the river 
stunk, etc. And it is then added, that the Magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments, 
(Exod. 7:20, 21, 22). Again, it is declared by JESUS CHRIST, that in the latter days there shall 
arise false Christs and false Prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that) if
it were possible, they shall deceive even the very elect, (Matthew 24:24). The beast also in the 
Revelation is described as doing great wonders, so as to make fire come down from heaven on 
the earth in the sight of men, and deceives them that dwell on the earth by those Miracles which 
he had power to do in the sight of the Beast, (Matthew 13:13, 14).

Q. Can you see any reason why the ALMIGHTY should permit his enemies to exercise a 
miraculous power in opposition to HIMSELF and to his kingdom?

A. Yes: there is every good reason to suppose that the ALMIGHTY grants this permission for the 
sake of His own children, or with a view to the trial of their faith, and to its further confirmation 
in consequence of such trial. For the necessary effect of an infernal or magical Miracle on the 
mind of a well-disposed person must be to induce doubt respecting the truth of a Divine Miracle, 

- 3-

and the result of that doubt would be a clearer discrimination between the two classes of 
Miracles, and thus finally a rejection of the infernal or magical Miracle, and an establishment of 
the power and validity of the Divine Miracle.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the discrimination between these two kinds of Miracles?

A. The discrimination is grounded, not so much in the external aspect or form of the two kinds 
of Miracles, as in their internal characters and qualities. For the internal quality and character, 
which distinguishes the Divine Miracle is, that it is representative and expressive of the Divine 
and Spiritual Principles which give it birth. Thus, when JESUS CHRIST raised the dead to life, this 
Miracle contained in its inward bosom a Divine and living Principle, and was thus expressive of 
the operation of that Principle, not only in imparting new life to a dead body, but also in 
imparting new and spiritual life to a dead soul, by raising it from the death of sin to the life of 
righteousness. This was the case too with all the other Miracles worked by that INCARNATE GOD, 
every one of which was thus figurative of a divine operation exercised, not on matter only, but on
spirit also, producing in the latter an effect corresponding to that which was produced in the 
former. But in the case of magical or infernal Miracles, no such internal principle was operative, 
and of course no such principle could be expressed, and therefore the Miracle was a mere 
outward and dead form, without animation from any spiritual principle of life whatever.

Q. What then would you suppose was the immediate design of the LORD'S Miracles?

A. In the first place, his Miracles were incontestable proofs to all his followers of a divine 
supernatural agency, and not only so, but of a divine mercy and loving-kindness. Thus they 
produced a double effect on all his penitent disciples, convincing their understandings, in the first
place, of the divinity of their LORD and MASTER; and, in the next place, operating on their wills, 
by making them sensible of His divine tenderness and compassion towards the children of men. 
It is therefore well to be understood, that it was not the intention of His Miracles, to make 
converts to his doctrine, since there is every reason to believe that no one cart be converted to the
Truth by any miraculous testimony whatsoever, agreeable to what is intimated in the Parable of 
the Rich Man and Lazarus, where it is written, If they hear not Moses and the Prophets, neither 
will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead. Accordingly JESUS CHRIST testifies in 
another place, If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of GOD ; 
instructing us by these words, that the qualification to admit the evidence of divine doctrine does 
not arise so much from miraculous testimony, as from a sincere desire to do the will of GOD, thus 
from a well-disposed heart and life. Accordingly the unbelieving Jews were not convinced by our
LORD'S Miracles, nor does it appear to have been his intention to promote their conviction in that 
way, and therefore he says in another place, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh for a sign,
but there shall no sign be given. The conclusion therefore is, that the LORD'S Miracles were 
intended for the confirmation of the faith of his pious followers; but not for the conviction and 
conversion of those who had no previous disposition or inclination to become his followers.

Q. But in the Scriptures of the New Testament, mention is made of Signs as well as of Miracles,
—how do you distinguish between a Sign and a Miracle?

- 4-

A. By a Sign is to be understood a divine supernatural agency operative on the understandings of
men, and thereby producing conviction respecting religious Truth, which conviction, so far as it 
relates to the understanding, may at any time be worked by the ALMIGHTY, and would at all times
be wrought, if it was agreeable to the order of his providence, and conducive to the regeneration 
and consequent salvation of mankind. But inasmuch as such conviction of the understanding, 
separate from the conversion of the will, would be of no avail, or rather would be injurious to 
man, by rendering him the subject of a more severe condemnation, supposing him to be 
unfaithful to it, therefore such signs are not given, and to seek them is declared by JESUS CHRIST 
to be the proper mark and character of an evil and adulterous generation. Miracles, on the other 
hand, do not produce conviction of the understanding only, but are intended to affect the will, as 
was above observed, and therefore Miracles are vouchsafed of the DIVINE MERCY for the reasons 
above mentioned, because Divine Miracles have a representative signification, by virtue of 
which they become instructive and edifying to all those who are in a state of mind capable of 
being benefited by them, in other words, who are in a state of mind sincerely desirous both to 
know and to do the whole will of their HEAVENLY FATHER. 

Q. How ought you then to be affected by a sense of the LORD'S Miracles?

A. With unfeigned adoration both of His DIVINE POWER and DIVINE GOODNESS, manifested in 
every Miracle which He performed. I ought also to be rightly affected with the significative sense
of every Miracle, and with this view to explore attentively what their distinct signification is, that
so I may gain a clearer insight into the nature of the divine operation. Lastly, I ought to consider, 
and to consider seriously, that JESUS CHRIST, in his adorable mercy, is ever disposed to work all 
his Miracles in my own mind and life, and since this cannot be done, only so far as I co-operate 
freely with HIM in the working of such Miracles, therefore I ought to consider further, that I am 
appointed, under HIM, to perform the same Miracles, agreeable to His own declaration, where He
says concerning every one of His true followers, The works that I do shall he do also, and 
greater works than these shall he do, because I go to the Father, (John 14:12), I am resolved 
therefore now on to pay due attention to the meaning and import of every Divine Miracle, and to 
take heed to my own conduct and conversation, that I may always be in a fit state to be a subject 
of the Miraculous Operation of my GOD and SAVIOUR, and may thus co-operate with Him in the 
removal of all my natural infirmities, ignorances and disorders, until I be finally restored, 
through his Divine Agency, to the full and complete order of that heavenly life, which He is ever 
willing to re-establish in every principle and degree both of my soul and body. AMEN.

- 5-

The Leper Cleansed

Matthew 8:1-5: When He was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed Him, 
and behold, there came a Leper and worshiped Him, etc.

Q. WHAT do you conceive to be here figured by the Leper, who is the subject of this Miracle?

A. The Leprosy, like all other bodily diseases prevalent at the time, was a representative figure of
spiritual disease, and the spiritual disease which it represented, was the profanation of Good and 
of Truth, which then prevailed in the Jewish Church.

Q. And what do you understand by the profanation of Good and Truth?

A. Man is guilty of profanation, and is thus a spiritual Leper, whenever he has been initiated into
the knowledge of what is true, and into the love of what is good, and afterwards acts contrary to 
such knowledge and love. This evil of profanation is represented by what JESUS CHRIST says 
concerning the unclean Spirit, that when he is cast out, he says, I will return to my house from 
whence I came out. Then he goes and takes to himself seven other spirits more wicked than 
himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of that man, is worse than the first) 
(Matthew 12:43-46). The LORD therefore, in his merciful providence, exercises a peculiar care 
over mankind, to prevent, as far as possible, their receiving more knowledge, and being affected 
with more love of what is right and good, than they can be supported in to the end of life, 
because the profanation of what is good and true exposes man to a more grievous condemnation 
than he can be exposed to by mere ignorance of, and insensibility to what is good and true, 
agreeable to those words of JESUS CHRIST, where He says, " That servant which knew his lord's 
will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many 
blows; but he who knew not, though he committed things worthier of blows, shall be beaten with 
few, (Luke 12:47, 48). The Leper then, who is the subject of this Miracle, is a representative 
figure of all those, who have once admitted into their minds the knowledge of heavenly things, 
and been made sensible of the love of them, and who afterwards decline from such knowledge 
and love, in consequence of immersing their thoughts and affections again in the selfish and 
worldly love which they had forsaken.

Q. But it is said of the above Leper, that he worshiped JESUS CHRIST, saying, LORD, if you will, 
you can make me clean — what do you understand here by the Leper's worshipping JESUS 
CHRIST?

A. The worship of JESUS CHRIST implies the acknowledgement of His DIVINITY, and thus that He 
was GOD MADE MAN in One Divine Person. Such worship therefore is here recorded of the above
Leper, because the acknowledgement of the DIVINITY of JESUS CHRIST is the necessary 
qualification to draw from Him the operation of His Divine Virtue for the cure of disease 
whether mental or bodily.

Q. And what do you further understand by the Leper saying, LORD, if you will, you can make me 
clean?

- 6-

A. These words involve confidence, on the part of the Leper, in the Omnipotence of the 
INCARNATE GOD, whom he now worshiped, which confidence was grounded in the conviction, 
that JEsus CHRIST is able to accomplish every purpose which is in agreement with His Own 
DIVINE ORDER AND PROVIDENCE; in other words, that He has power to effect all things which are 
not contrary to the laws of His own appointment, thus to the determinations of His Divine Will. 
This confidence therefore is here recorded, because it is another essential qualification for 
receiving all the benefits and blessings resulting from the Divine Operation.

Q. But it follows, that JESUS put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I will, be you clean. 
And immediately his leprosy was cleansed — What do you here understand by JESUS putting 
forth his hand?

A. By the hand is denoted power, because the hand is formed to execute the determinations of 
the will, in which all power originates. By the hand of JESUS, therefore is represented Divine 
Power, which is Omnipotence, and by putting forth the hand is signified the exercise of that 
Omnipotence, thus the fulfillment of the purposes of the Divine Mercy and Love, According this 
sense, it is to be understood that the BLESSED JESUS is always putting forth his hand, because he 
is always in the act of relieving the infirmities, soothing the sorrows, and healing the spiritual 
distempers of all his children who believe in his divinity, and have confidence in the 
omnipotence which he possesses as the ONLY GOD of heaven and earth.

Q. And what do you conceive to be further meant by JESUS touching the Leper and saying, I will,
be you clean?

A. By touching is here to be understood the communication of that omnipotence which is 
signified by putting forth the hand, in other words, its application to the distempered principles 
which it intended to cure. It is therefore added, I will, be you clean, because the expression, I 
will, is significative of the Divine Intention or Purpose, as originating in" the Divine Mercy or 
Love, whilst the expression, Be thou clean, denotes, with equal emphasis, the accomplishment of
that intention or purpose, through the application of an omnipotent energy to the malady which 
was to be removed. It is therefore further to be understood, not only that JESUS CHRIST is 
perpetually putting forth his hand, and touching his distempered children, who with confidence 
supplicate his Divine Aid, but likewise that he is perpetually saying, as in the present instance, I 
will, be you clean, in other words, that he is perpetually declaring the purpose of his mercy to 
relieve the wants and heal the infirmities of his penitent and humble children, and is always in 
the act of executing that purpose, whenever his children are in a proper state of heart and of life 
to admit his Divine Operation.

Q. And what do you understand by what next follows, where it is said, immediately his leprosy 
was cleansed?

A. The BLESSED JESUS had before expressed the purpose of His Love, and also its operation, in 
the emphatic words, I will, be you clean, and therefore now the effect of that purpose and 
operation is described. Thus we are instructed that every Divine Work is threefold, including in it

- 7-

Intention which is of love, design which is of wisdom, and effect which is of operation; and thus 
too we are instructed further, that in every effect there must be a cause or design, and in every 
cause or design there must be a purpose or end; and that consequently in every work of creation 
and redemption there is a manifestation of Divine Love and Wisdom, of which such work is 
therefore an exact representative type or figure, so that the whole of creation may be regarded as 
a theatre representative of the Divine Principles in which it originates, which are love, wisdom 
and use.

Q. But It is written that JESUS says unto him, See you tell no man, but go your way, show yourself
to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded) for a testimony to them — what do you 
conceive to be here meant by the injunction, See you tell no man?

A. According to the sense of the letter, this injunction implies, that the cleansed Leper should be 
silent respecting the Divine Operation from which he had received such an extraordinary benefit,
and in this sense of the term, it contains an useful caution to those, who are forward to speak of 
the experience they have had of the Divine Mercy, and who consider it as a crime to conceal 
from others the blessings which have been bestowed on themselves. But according to the 
spiritual idea, the injunction implies that the Miracle worked should not affect the understanding
only, by being regarded merely in an intellectual view, or as a point of curious speculation, but 
should affect the will of its cleansed subject, by being regarded as an effect of the pure love and 
mercy of the MOST HIGH GOD. It therefore follows, Go your way, show yourself to the priest, and 
offer the gift which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them. For by the injunction, Go your 
way, is to be understood a requirement to live according to the mercy which had been 
experienced; and by the further injunction, show yourself to the priest, is to be understood an 
opening of the mind to the consideration and reception of the good of heavenly love and life, 
which good was figured and represented by the priest under the Jewish law; and lastly by the 
injunction, offer the gift which Moses commanded for a testimony to them, is to be understood 
the grateful and devout acknowledgment that all spiritual cleansing and purification, especially 
in the case of the profanation of Good and Truth, is the sole effect of the Divine Loving-
kindness, and a proof most positive of the Divine Omnipotence.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this Miracle? 

A. I learn from it, in the first place, to adore that Divine Power and Goodness, which when 
manifested here on earth in a bodily form, was exercised on the bodies of men, by the removal of
bodily disease and infirmity, and thus proves the original of that form to be from the FATHER OF 
MERCIES. And I learn from it, in the next place, to reflect with consolation and confidence, that 
the same Divine Power and Goodness is continually flowing from the GLORIFIED BODY of the 
GREAT REDEEMER, to remove all spiritual disease and infirmity, even that greatest of all 
distempers, the profanation of Good and Truth, in all cases where Divine Aid is supplicated out 
of a humble and penitent heart for the purpose of removal. Lastly, I learn what are the 
qualifications to receive the healing gift of the Divine Mercy, and that they consist, first, in the 
acknowledgement of the INCARNATE GOD in His DIVINE HUMANITY; and secondly, in the 
confidence that He has Omnipotence, in other words, that He can do all things consistent with 

- 8-

His own order, and with the laws of operation which He Himself hath been pleased to appoint. I 
am resolved therefore from now on to believe in this Omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, and to
apply to Him, and to Him alone, for relief under all my spiritual distempers, and never to despair 
of His Divine Aid, even though I should inadvertently offend against His holy laws, and thus 
incur the guilt of profaning them. AMEN.

- 9-

The Centurion's Servant Healed

Matthew 8:5-14: And when JESUS was entered into Capernaum, there came to Him a Centurion, 
beseeching Him, and saying, LORD, my servant lies at home sick of the palsy, grievously 
tormented, etc. 

Q. WHAT do you here understand by the centurion, by his servant, and by the palsy of which he 
was sick, and by which he was grievously tormented?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by the Centurion here recorded is to be understood a 
Roman Commander of a hundred soldiers, and by his servant is to be understood one of his 
domestics employed in his service, and by the palsy with which he was afflicted, is further to be 
understood a bodily disease called by that name, and consisting in the want of a proper 
circulation of the blood in some part of the body, in consequence of which the part affected was 
rendered incapable of performing the functions for which it was intended. But according to the 
spiritual idea, which is involved in every part of this Miracle, as well as of all the other Miracles 
performed by the GREAT REDEEMER, by the Centurion above-mentioned is to be understood the 
Church among the Gentiles, and particularly the Church combating against spiritual adversaries, 
for the Centurion here spoken was a Gentile Soldier. Agreeably to the same spiritual idea, by this
Centurion's servant is to be understood some lower principle in the natural mind intended to 
administer to the higher principles of the spiritual mind; and therefore by the palsy, with which 
the servant was afflicted, is to be understood a defect of truth in the lower principles of the 
natural mind, in consequence of which defect there was a want of circulation of heavenly life and
love from the higher principles of the spiritual mind, which rendered the natural mind unable to 
perform the functions for which it was intended, particularly in the way of combat against the 
evil principles and false persuasions with which it was infected. It is accordingly said concerning
this servant, that he was sick, and grievously tormented, because sickness has relation to the evils
which were unsubdued and thus unremoved, whilst grievous torment has relation to the false 
persuasions originating in those evils.

Q. But it is added, that JESUS says unto him, I will come and heal him——what do you learn 
from these words of the BLESSED JESUS?

A. I learn, not only His willingness to administer to the relief of the servant here recorded, but 
also His willingness to administer to the relief of all other His afflicted servants, who apply to 
Him out of pure and penitent hearts. It is therefore to be understood, and attentively considered, 
that JESUS is ever uttering this same expression, I will come and heal him, over every individual 
child or servant, labouring under any disease or sorrow, whether mental or corporeal. For the 
GREAT REDEEMER is the same compassionate mercy yesterday, today, and for ever, and 
consequently as He was willing in the days of His flesh to listen to the prayers of His afflicted 
children, and to relieve their distresses, so He is alike willing at this day, and alike in the act of 
coming, to remove the infirmities of all those, who, like the good Centurion of old, supplicate 
His Divine Power and Presence, It is to be remarked further concerning the two expressions, 

- 10-

coming and healing, that the former must in all cases precede the latter; in other words, that the 
BLESSED JESUS cannot heal, unless he be first allowed to come, and that healing therefore is to be
regarded as the effect of His Divine Presence, and that consequently whoever wishes to 
experience the power of His healing, must first labour to open his mind, and to keep it open, to 
the Divine presence, favour, and benediction.

Q. But it is added that the Centurion answered and said, LORD, I am not worthy that you should 
come under my roof, but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed — what instruction
do you learn from these words?

A. I learn from these words two necessary qualifications to secure the favour and blessing of the 
HOLY JESUS, the first of which is humility, as manifested in these words, LORD, I am not worthy 
that you should come under my roof, and the second is, confidence in DIVINE AID grounded in 
that humility, and expressed in these words, speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed.

Q. And what instruction do you learn from the words which follow, where it is written, for I am 
a man under authority, having soldiers under me; and I say to this [man] Go, and he goes; and 
to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and he does it.

A. I learn a third qualification necessary to secure the favour and blessing of the GREAT 
REDEEMER, which qualification consists in a well arranged mind, resulting from the two former 
qualifications, humility and confidence in Divine Aid. For the soldiers here spoken of, as being 
under the Centurion, have reference to the subordinate principles of the natural mind, and to say 
to one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my servant, Do this, and 
he does it, denotes the orderly arrangement of those principles. It is further to be observed 
concerning this arrangement, that to say to one, Go, and he goes, denotes the first energy and 
effect of the will in the execution of any purpose; whilst to say to another, Come, and he comes, 
denotes the excitation and presence of means in the understanding for the accomplishment of the
same purpose; and to say to my servant, Do this, and he does it, denotes the effect, or the full 
accomplishment of the purpose in word and in work.

Q. But it follows, that when JESUS heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I
say to you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel — what instruction do you further 
learn from these words?

A. By JESUS marvelling, I learn, that the case of the Centurion was singular and extraordinary; 
and by his saying, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel, I am further taught in what 
respect the case was both singular and extraordinary, namely. because the faith of the Centurion 
was a faith not grounded in himself, but in the affection of charity, thus in the GOD from whom 
that affection is derived, on which account it is called a great faith, for the term great is always 
applied, according to the spiritual idea, to denote heavenly good, which is the good of love and 
charity. And since the faith, which prevailed at that time in the Israelitish Church, was not of that 
description, being grounded in selfish and worldly love, and thus not in GOD, it is therefore 
added, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.

- 11-

Q. And what instruction do you further learn from the words which follow, where JESUS adds, 
and I say unto you, that many shall come from the East and West, and shall sit down with 
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, in the kingdom of GOD, but the children of the kingdom shall be cast 
out into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth?

A. By many coming from the East and West, I am instructed in the call of the Gentiles into the 
Christian Church, both of those who were in a state of more enlightened good, signified by the 
East, and of those who were in a state of more obscure good, signified by the West; and by their 
sitting down with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, in the kingdom of GOD, I am further taught the 
several degrees of goodness and of blessedness to which they will be admitted, whilst some 
attain to a celestial degree, signified by Abraham, some to a spiritual degree, signified by Isaac, 
and some to a natural degree, signified by Jacob; in other words, while some become principled 
in love to the LORD, others in charity towards their neighbour, and lastly, others in simple 
obedience to the truth, because they believe it to be their duty to live uprightly and sincerely one 
amongst smother. For according to any other idea, what can be meant by sitting down with 
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of GOD? And again, by the children of the kingdom 
being cast out into outer darkness, where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth, I am further 
instructed, that they, who are principled in faith and truth alone, separate from a life of charity, or
obedience to the truth, will be removed from all communion with the blessed, and plunged into a
more terrible darkness than they who are ignorant of the truth, and will thus be deprived of all 
heavenly love and wisdom, and left a prey to every evil purpose and false principle, signified by 
weeping and gnashing of teeth.

Q. But it is lastly written, that JESUS said to the Centurion, Go your way; and as you have 
believed, so be it done to you. And his servant was healed in the self-same hour — what is the 
instruction which you learn from these words?

A. By JESUS saying to the Centurion, Go your way, is to be understood Divine Exhortation to live
according to the great faith with which he was gifted, for to go, and to go in a way, according to 
the spiritual idea, signifies to walk or to live according to the knowledge of heavenly truth which 
has been received; and therefore I am instructed by these words, that every one, who has been 
blessed with the knowledge and belief of the ETERNAL TRUTH, ought to endeavour to form his 
life and love according to it; heavenly dictates. By JESUS saying further, as you have believed, so 
be it done to you. I am again instructed that the Divine Blessing, with its operation, attends every
one, according to his faith; in other words, according to the ruling persuasions of his mind, as 
grounded in his ruling love, if that love be in agreement with the Divine Will, and that for this 
plain reason, because those persuasions are in conjunction with the ETERNAL TRUTH, and the 
ETERNAL TRUTH is ever connected with Omnipotence, agreeable to which idea it is written in. 
another place, that ail things are possible to him that believes. Lastly, I am instructed by the 
concluding words, his servant was healed in the self-same hour, that a Divine Effect always 
attends a Divine Intention and loving-kindness, in all cases, where obstructions to its operation 
are removed, as in the present instance of the faithful Centurion and his afflicted servant, and that
thus the palsy is healed in all the lower principles of the human mind, whenever the higher 

- 12-

principles are opened, by genuine faith and love, to the reception of the Divine Mercy and its full
operation.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from, this Miracle?

A. I learn, first, that there is a spiritual palsy as well as a natural one, and that a spiritual palsy 
consists in some spiritual obstruction in the mind and life, whereby the free circulation of 
heavenly love and wisdom is impeded, so that the mental faculties are not able to perform their 
proper functions, which functions consist in opposing evil and false principles, and in cherishing 
such as are in agreement with the SUPREME GOOD and the SUPREME TRUTH. I am instructed yet 
further, that no radical cure is to be found for this spiritual palsy but in the INCARNATE GOD, or In
the GREAT SAVIOUR, JESUS CHRIST in His DIVINE HUMANITY, and not even, in this GOD and 
SAVIOUR, unless he be approached in a right faith, that is to say, with a faith grounded in love and
charity, producing right arrangement in all the subordinate powers and principles of the natural 
mind. I 1earn still further from the above Divine Miracle, that let the obstructions to heavenly 
life and love be ever so formidable, and the Divine circulation of Blessing be ever so much 
impeded, yet if JESUS CHRIST in His DIVINE HUMANITY be believed in and approached with a 
sincere heart, and in the spirit of true repentance, every obstruction will then soon be removed, 
which prevents the free circulation of His blessed influence, until at length the whole mind and 
life be restored to their proper health and strength, by being enabled to comply willingly and 
freely with the Divine Operation. I am resolved therefore now on, whensoever I feel my own 
mind affected with a spiritual palsy, to apply immediately, like the faithful Centurion above 
recorded, to my GOD and SAVIOUR for his healing virtue, and to apply to him with that living faith
in His Divine Omnipotence, for which the Centurion was so eminently distinguished. I am 
resolved also to attend well to the operations of my own mind, that so all its powers and faculties
may be brought into right arrangement, and thus rendered strong to withstand the assault of evil 
and false principles, and eager and earnest to cherish all heavenly and holy influences. Lastly, I 
am resolved to believe confidently, that if my faith in my GOD and SAVIOUR be grounded in His 
love and wisdom, it will then connect me perpetually with His Omnipotence, and through that 
Omnipotence every obstruction to the circulation of the Divine Blessing will finally be removed, 
and I shall feel myself restored to the free exercise of every mental faculty, and to the happy 
perception of its close conjunction with the mercy, favour, peace and blessedness of my 
HEAVENLY FATHER. AMEN.

- 13-

Peter's Wife's Mother Healed

Matthew 8:14-16: And when JESUS was come into Peter's house, He saw his wife's mother laid, 
and sick of a fever, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by JESUS entering into Peter's house, and by his seeing 
Peter's wife's mother laid, and sick of a fever?

A. These words have both a literal and a spiritual meaning, like the words of all the other 
Miracles performed by the LORD, and according to the literal meaning they relate to Peter as a 
man, and to his wife's mother as to a person sick of a bodily disorder called a fever; but according
to their spiritual meaning, they relate to Peter and to his wife's mother, as representing spiritual 
principles belonging to the church, that is to say, to the members of the church at that period, and
to the distemper with which the members of the church were then affected.

Q. And according to the spiritual signification, what do you understand by JESUS entering into 
Peter's house?

A. By Peter, as an apostle, is represented the principle of faith in the church, and especially of 
that faith which acknowledges the DIVINITY of the GREAT SAVIOUR, (see Matthew 17:13-20); and 
by his house therefore are represented the interiors of that faith. Thus by JESUS entering Peter's 
house is to be understood His Divine Influx into the interiors which constituted the faith of the 
church.

Q. What then do you understand, according to the spiritual idea, by Peter's wife's mother, and 
what by JESUS seeing her laid, and sick of a fever?

A. According to the spiritual idea, by Peter's wife's mother, is to be understood the affection in 
which the good of the faith of the church originates; and by JESUS seeing her laid, and sick of a 
fever, is further to be understood Divine Inspection into that affection, and a consequent 
discovery of its being merely natural, and infected with evils of concupiscence: for by JESUS 
seeing is signified Divine Inspection; and by being laid, and sick of a fever, is further denoted 
that the affection in which the good of the faith of the church originates, was immersed in mere 
natural love, and thus infested with the concupiscences originating in that love.

Q. But it is written, that JESUS touched her handy and the fever left her, and she arose and 
ministered to them——what do you here conceive to be expressed by JESUS touching her hand? 
and the fever leaving her?

A. Agreeable to the above spiritual idea, by JESUS touching her hand is to be understood, the 
communication of Divine Power to the affection in which the good of the faith of the church 
originates; and by the fever leaving her in consequence of that touch, is to be further understood, 
that when that affection had communication opened with the Divine Power of the LORD, and 

- 14-

became thus conjoined with his love, it was then immediately liberated from the concupiscences 
of evil which had before infested it, and was thus restored to its proper strength, purity, and 
activity.

Q. And what do you understand by her arising, and ministering to them?

A. These words, like the foregoing, have both a literal and a spiritual meaning, and in their literal
meaning they relate to Peter's wife's mother, and to her arising out of her bed, and fulfilling her 
appointed duties, but in the spiritual sense, as applied to the affection in which the good of the 
faith of the church originates, they were intended to record the elevation of that affection, and its 
consequent application to works of service and of use in the church. And since all spiritual 
elevation implies an elevation towards the GREAT AND HOLY GOD, and thus a conjunction of life 
with Him, and the performing of useful services under His DIVINE Influence, therefore this also is
to be understood by arising and ministering to them.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above Miracle?

A. I learn, in the first place, from its letter or history, to adore that Divine Power, by which the 
GREAT SAVIOUR at one and the same time manifested His Divinity, and relieved the natural 
infirmities of His suffering creatures; and from the interior contents of that letter or history, I 
learn in the next place to acknowledge with equal adoration and gratitude the same Divine Power
in its application to remove spiritual infirmity and disease. I learn further, from the significant 
history of a bodily fever, to reflect on that more terrible mental fever in which it originates, and 
which it was intended to represent and make manifest, and to be continually upon my guard 
against its assault and destructive effects. And since this mental fever consists in those 
concupiscences of the natural man, which infest and defile the affection of truth, or of a right 
faith, in the spiritual man, I am further instructed by the spiritual sense of this Miracle, to be 
continually on the watch against the infecting influence of those concupiscences, which all 
originate in self-love and an inordinate love of the world. I am resolved therefore from now on, 
through the Divine Grace and Mercy, to take heed to myself, lest at any time the defiling 
influence of mere natural love should infect the higher principles of the life of my immortal 
spirit, and thus plunge me into that most terrible and dangerous, yet least dreaded of all 
disorders, a fever of the mind, Still should it come to pass, through the weakness of my corrupt 
nature, that I shall at any time become the prey of such infection, I am resolved not to despair of 
Divine Aid and Relief but rather in all humility of penitence and contrition, to throw myself at 
the feet of my MERCIFUL SAVIOUR, and implore the healing power of His DIVINE BENEDICTION. 
Thus may I hope, like Peter's wife's mother of old, who had the happiness to experience the 
blessed touch of her SAVIOUR'S hand, to be partaker of the same high privilege, and to receive 
from that touch the cure of all my spiritual maladies. And thus too, like her, shall I also arise and
minister; in other words, become elevated to an eternal conjunction of life with my GOD, and by 
virtue of that elevation, be enabled to perform all useful services to my fellow-creatures to His 
glory and my own happiness. AMEN.

- 15-

- 16-

The Devils Cast Out

Matthew 8:16-18: When the even was come, they brought to him many that were possessed with 
devils, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by the even coming?

A. By the even coming, according to the sense of the letter, is to be understood the close of the 
natural day, or the time when the sun sets to this lower world of nature; but according to the 
spiritual idea contained under the letter, by the even coming is to be understood a state of obscure
faith and love in the church, or the close of the spiritual day, when the Sun of Heaven sets on 
benighted mortals, in consequence of their want of faith in the brightness of his rays, and their 
want of love for that heavenly warmth which they inspire.

Q. And what do you conceive to be here meant by the possessed of devils?

A. By devils are to be understood the spirits and powers of darkness in the infernal world, and by
being possessed of these devils, according to the sense of the letter, is to be understood the 
possession which these spirits and powers took at that time of the bodies of men; for such at that 
time was the deplorable state of the Jewish church, in its departure from GOD and His kingdom, 
that the infernal inhabitants entered even into the corporeal part of man, and ruled it at pleasure. 
But by being possessed of devils, according to the spiritual idea, is to be understood the 
possession which the infernal powers take of the souls of men, by virtue of which possession 
they obtain entire government over the thoughtless and impenitent, and rule them with the iron 
rod of diabolical malice and agency. For such is the awful situation of man in this lower world, 
that he is placed as it were between two kingdoms, the kingdom of light, which is the kingdom of
GOD, and the kingdom of darkness which is the kingdom of the enemy of GOD, called the Devil 
and Satan; the Devil by reason of the diabolical evil by which he is impelled to all kind of 
mischief: and Satan, by reason of the false principles in which that evil works, and effects its 
mischievous purposes. Moreover, the inhabitants of both these kingdoms have access to man, 
and he becomes of necessity associated with the one or the other according to his ruling love, 
that is to say, according as he is desirous to submit himself to the government of the divine love 
and wisdom of GOD, or to govern himself, by exalting his own will and wisdom above the will 
and wisdom of the MOST HIGH. It is further to be remarked concerning such association, that, 
man acquires a life and a form according to it, an angelic life and form if his association be 
angelic, but an infernal life and form if his association be infernal. JESUS CHRIST accordingly 
declares concerning the wicked and unbelieving Jews, You are of your father the devil, and the 
lusts of your father you will do. (John 8:44).

Q. Can you assign any reason why the possessed of devils were brought to JESUS when the even 
was come?

- 17-

A. Yes, if the even be understood according to the spiritual idea above expressed, as denoting the 
absence of good and of truth in the church, for whenever this is the case, then the members of the
church must of necessity become a prey to evil and error, and of course must be possessed of 
devils, because wherever evil and error are, there the powers of darkness, called the Devil and 
Satan, must have their abode. It is only therefore in the even, according to its spiritual meaning, 
that mankind can become possessed of devils, and thus brought to JESUS for deliverance.

Q. But it follows, that He cast out the spirits with His Word, and healed all that were sick — 
what do you understand by JESUS casting out the spirits with His Word?

A. By the spirits here spoken of are to be understood the powers of darkness, who have their 
abodes in all man's natural evils and errors, and by the WORD of JESUS CHRIST is to be 
understood the complex of His divine love and wisdom brought down into the letter, or literal 
expression. By JESUS casting out the spirits with His Word is consequently to be understood the 
removal of evil and error through the implantation, the growth, and fruitfulness of heavenly love 
and wisdom, or what amounts to the same of heavenly goodness and truth. It is not therefore to 
be understood that JESUS cast out the spirits by the mere sound of His voice, or by any 
extraordinary act of divine authority or omnipotence separate from His divine love and wisdom, 
for evil can never be supplanted but by good, nor can error be supplanted but by truth, and 
therefore it is to be understood, that the voice of the BLESSED JESUS operated to the casting out 
the spirits by virtue of the omnipotence of His divine love and wisdom, as formed and contained 
in it. Hence then may be discovered the obligation imposed on every one, who is desirous of 
experiencing in his own mind the casting out of the powers of darkness, to cherish carefully in 
himself the contrary powers of heavenly love and wisdom, or goodness and truth, from a firm 
conviction that one opposite can never be cast out but by another, in like manner as darkness can 
never be cast out but by light, nor cold but by heat.

Q. And what do you conceive to be meant by the words which follow, and healed all that were 
sick?

A. By the sick, according to the spiritual sense of the Miracle, are here meant those who are 
spiritually sick, and the spiritually sick are all those who are distempered in their understanding, 
by reason of the influence of false persuasions and perverted thoughts. By healing the sick 
therefore is to be understood the removal of such false principles and perverted thoughts by the 
insemination and growth of heavenly truth and knowledge. This operation of healing the sick 
accordingly follows that of casting out the spirits, because by the spirits are meant the spirits of 
evil infecting the will of man with disorderly love, and until these spirits are cast out, it is 
impossible the sick can be healed, since if the love be disorderly in the will, it must of necessity 
give birth to false persuasions in the understanding; but no sooner is evil extirpated from the 
will, than error is at the same time extirpated from the understanding, and thus the sick are 
healed.

Q. But it is added, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, 
Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses  how do you understand these words? A. By

- 18-

these words I am instructed that all the Miracles worked by the BLESSED JESUS were of divine 
prediction, and that thus the prophetic Word and the evangelical are in the most perfect harmony, 
and accord with each other; the latter being the accomplishment of the former, in the person of 
the INCARNATE GOD. By this GOD taking our infirmities, and bearing our sicknesses? I am further
instructed, that he subjected himself to the assault of all those evils and errors which infest the 
nature of man, and which are in connection with the powers of darkness, to the intent that he 
might finally subdue those powers, and deliver man from their tyrannical usurpation. Mention is 
accordingly made both of infirmities and sicknesses, because infirmities relate to the disorders of 
evil in the human will, whilst sicknesses have relation to the disorders resulting from false 
principles in the understanding.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this Miracle?

A. I learn in the first place to adore the power of that INCARNATE GOD, who was manifested to 
destroy the works of the devil, both in the heart, in the understanding, and in the operation of 
man, by delivering the heart from the love of evil, and the understanding from the darkness of 
error, and the operation from the mischievous effects of both. I learn in the next place to venerate
that HOLY WORD, which proceeds from this INCARNATE GOD, and is embodied in the letter or 
literal sense of the divine records, and to regard it as the grand complex of the divine will and 
wisdom let down from heaven for the use of man, by forming in him the same heavenly love and
wisdom with which itself is filled. I learn also that the INCARNATE GOD effects all his saving 
purposes by the instrumentality of this His HOLY WORD. I learn further that so far as I deliberately
cherish any evil or error, in the same proportion I admit into myself infernal agency, and by 
degrees become a living form of diabolical influence, from which I can never by any possibility 
be delivered, but through the reception of the eternal truth, producing in me the blessed fruits of 
repentance, of faith in JESUS CHRIST, and of a holy life according to His divine precepts. I learn 
lastly to adore that DIVINE MERCY, which was pleased in the fulness of time to assume a body of 
flesh, and in that body to submit to all the assaults of the powers of darkness, for the purpose of 
subduing them, and thus removing them from man. I am resolved therefore from now on to take 
JESUS CHRIST for my ONLY GOD AND SAVIOUR, by believing that HE ALONE has power to deliver 
me from my natural evils, and thus from infernal association and usurpation. I am resolved also 
to venerate His HOLY WORD, by believing it to proceed from HIM, and to contain in its inmost 
bosom all the fullness of His love and wisdom, by virtue of which it is in continual close 
connection with Him. Lastly, I am resolved to cherish this HOLY WORD in my heart, my 
understanding, and my life, from a full conviction that I can never attain any ascendancy over my
own natural evils, and thus over the powers of darkness, only so far as the heavenly goods and 
truths of the ETERNAL WORD are implanted and bring forth their blessed fruits in my life and 
conversation. AMEN.

- 19-

The Wind and Waves Rebuked

Matthew 8:23-28: And when He was entered into a ship, His disciples followed Him, etc.

Q. WHAT do you understand here by JESUS entering into a ship, and His disciples following 
him?

A. By JESUS entering into a ship, and His disciples following him, is to be understood, according 
to the literal sense of the history, that He and his disciples entered into a natural ship, such as 
floats on the natural waters of the sea; but according to the spiritual idea, is to be understood that
they entered into what is signified and represented by a ship, and this is nothing else but the 
knowledge of what is good and true, as derived from the HOLY WORD, since what a ship is as to 
its natural use and service, that the knowledge of what is good and true is as to its spiritual use 
and service.

Q. Can you prove to me, from the authority of the sacred scriptures, that ships have such a 
spiritual meaning and signification?

A. Yes; it is said in the prophecy of Balaam, in reference to the gospel dispensation, that ships 
shall come from the coast of Shittim, and shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also 
shall perish for ever, (Num. 24:24). where it must be evident to every considerate person, that by 
ships are not meant ships, but the knowledges of good and truth derived from the WORD OF GOD, 
which were to oppose and overturn the reasonings of the natural man, signified by Asshur and 
Eber, It is written again in the prophet Isaiah, where he is speaking, in like manner of the Lord's 
Advent, and of its extraordinary effects, that the day of the Lord should be upon all the ships of 
Tarshish, (Isa. ii. 16). where it is again manifest that by ships cannot be meant ships, but the 
knowledges of good and truth, and in the opposite sense the knowledges of what is evil and false,
which were to be supplanted at the appearing of the INCARNATE GOD. To the same purport it is 
written in the Revelations concerning the destruction of Babylon, or of the corrupt church 
signified by Babylon, Alas, alas, that great city, wherein were made rich all that had ships in the 
sea, by reason of her costliness! (Rev. 18:19). from which words it is again plain, that by ships 
are not meant ships, but the doctrinals taught in that corrupt church.

Q. But it is said on this occasion, that there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the 
ship was covered with the waves — what do you conceive to be meant by the tempest here 
spoken of, and by the ship being covered with the waves?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by the tempest is to be understood a natural tempest or 
storm; and by the ship being covered with waves is to be understood the natural effect of that 
tempest or storm, in covering the ship with the waters of the sea. But, according to the spiritual 
idea, by a tempest is to be understood a spiritual tempest, which is no other than the agitation and
perturbation of the natural man, occasioned by the knowledges of good and truth derived from 
the WORD OF GOD, which are here treated of. For in regard to those knowledges, the case is this, 

- 20-

that when they are first communicated to the natural man, they disturb him in his natural loves, 
and thus cause what is called spiritual trial; trouble, or temptation, here called a tempest: and by 
the ship being covered with the waves is therefore to be understood, that the knowledges of 
heavenly good and truth were obscured by the agitation and perturbation of the natural man, 
signified by the waves.

Q. And what do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written; that he was 
asleep?

A. The sleep here spoken of, according to the spiritual idea, has reference to the state of the 
natural man, under the agitation and perturbation which is here described. For when the natural 
man is in such a state, then JESUS appears to be asleep; in other words, His Divine presence is 
not noted or attended to, being immersed in the distracted affections and thoughts of the natural 
mind. Sleep therefore, in such case, is ascribed to the BLESSED JESUS, in like manner as anger 
and wrath are ascribed to Him, when yet they are only appearances, arising from the evil and 
false principles which prevail in the mind of man, leading him to suppose that, because he is 
against GOD, therefore God is against him. Thus JESUS is said to be asleep, when in reality the 
sleep appertains only to man, who is pronounced to be asleep, when he thinks naturally, and not 
spiritually, that is to say, when his understanding is immersed in the things of nature, and not 
awake to the perception and enjoyment of things spiritual and eternal.

Q. But it is added, that His disciples came to Him, and awoke Him, saying, LORD, save us; we 
perish — what do you understand by these words?

A. By the disciples coming to Him is to be understood that their affections were excited towards 
Him, because every man comes or goes, according to the state of his ruling affection. If therefore
that affection be directed towards JESUS CHRIST, man is then said to come to that GREAT AND 
HOLY GOD, as on the other hand, he goes away from that GOD, whenever his affection grows cold 
towards Him, by being fixed on inferior objects. And as by coming to JESUS CHRIST is thus to be 
understood a state of the ruling affection, so by awaking Him is to be further understood a state 
of the ruling thought, or a state of the understanding in its elevation upwards towards things 
spiritual and eternal, agreeable to what was just now observed concerning JESUS being asleep. 
This state of elevated affection and elevated thought is further described in these words; which 
the disciples spoke on the occasion, LORD, save us; ice perish: for by the prayer, LORD, save us, 
is evidently described a state of elevated affection; and by the additional words, we perish, is as 
evidently denoted a state of elevated thought, since without such a state it would have been 
impossible for them to discern the danger and destruction which threatened them.

Q. And what do you conceive to be meant by the words which next follow, where it is written, 
He says to them, Why are you fearful, O you of little faith?

A. By the interesting question, Why are you fearful? the BLESSED JESUS intended to lead His 
disciples to explore in their own minds the cause and origin of fear, that so they might discover 
that all fear has its source in mere natural affection and thought separate from spiritual affection 

- 21-

and thought; and therefore He adds, O you of little faith, by which words He manifestly points 
out a defect of those spiritual principles. For all faith, properly so called, is the complex of 
spiritual affection and spiritual thought, since, if spiritual affection be wanting, it is impossible to
suppose that there can be any true faith; and in like manner, if spiritual thought be wanting, the 
principle of faith cannot be supposed to exist. When therefore the BLESSED JESUS applied the 
words of censure, O ye of little faith, He manifestly designed to instruct His disciples, and 
through them all succeeding generations of mankind, that fear is the constant result of the want 
or weakness of heavenly principles in the human mind, in consequence of which want or 
weakness the mind is separated from that Divine strength and omnipotence, in which all true 
courage originates, and is left a prey to all those fears and alarms, which beset the natural mind 
in such state of separation, by plunging it into a dreadful association with the powers of darkness,
of terror, and of dismay.

Q. But it is added, that then He arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great 
calm——what do you understand by these words?

A. By JESUS arising is to be understood, according to the spiritual idea, His exaltation in the 
minds of His disciples as the SUPREME GOOD and the SUPREME TRUTH, for GOD can never be said 
to arise in any other sense than this. When therefore the Psalmist says, Let GOD arise, and let His
enemies be scattered, he manifestly prays for such an exaltation of GOD, that is to say, of His 
Divine love and wisdom in his own mind and life, by virtue of which he might experience power
over all his spiritual enemies. It is accordingly added in the history of this miracle, that when 
JESUS arose, He rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm, because to rebuke 
the winds and the sea denotes the exercise of His omnipotence in subduing the infernal influence
signified by the wind, and the evils and errors of the natural man signified by the sea, which 
exercise is to be considered as the result of His arising, in other words, of His being exalted to 
the supreme place in the affections and thoughts of His disciples. It is therefore to be well 
understood, that infernal influence, evil and error, can never be removed in man, until the 
BLESSED JESUS is first exalted in his mind and life, but that no sooner does such exaltation take 
place, than presently the wind and the sea are rebuked, and the agitations and perturbations of 
the natural man give place to the tranquil and composing principles operative from the GREAT 
REDEEMER in the spirit of man. Thus, as it is here recorded, there is a great calm, because the 
great calm here spoken of has relation to the gentle and pacific rule of heavenly principles and 
persuasions in the human mind on the removal of the contrary principles and persuasions 
suggested by the powers of darkness, and it is called a great calm, to denote its Divine origin, as 
having its source in the operation of the Divine mercy and love, for the term great is always 
applied to denote that operation.

Q. But it is further written, that the men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even
the winds and the sea obey him? — what particular instruction do you learn, from these words?

A. By the men marvelling, I am taught what is the genuine effect on human minds, resulting 
from the display of the Divine Omnipotence in removing infernal influence in the natural man, 
and that this effect is the acknowledgement of that omnipotence, or of a Divine power infinitely 

- 22-

exceeding all human agency whatever, for to marvel, according to the spiritual idea, is to 
recognise such a power. It accordingly follows that they said, What manner of man is this, that 
even the winds and the sea obey him? by which words it is evident, that they began to regard the 
BLESSED JESUS as a being more than human, and even as Divine, since no other than a Divine 
Being can be supposed to exercise control over the winds and sea, and especially over what is 
signified and represented by the winds and sea, namely, the tempestuous influences of the 
powers of darkness operating on the disorderly passions and appetites of the natural man. When 
therefore the men exclaimed, What manner of man is this? it is the same thing as if they had said.
This man can be no other than the GREAT AND HOLY GOD. Thus the first disciples were convinced
by this miracle of the Supreme Divinity of their LORD AND MASTER, and thus too all future 
disciples may be convinced of the same divinity, whensoever they observe in themselves the 
turbulence of unruly passions subdued, and in their place the tranquillity, the peace and 
gentleness restored, which ever flow from the admission of the meek and mild Spirit of the HOLY 
JESUS.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn to adore, in the first place, the Divine Agency, by which the ALMIGHTY has been 
pleased to manifest His absolute control over the elements of nature; and in the next place to 
adore the same Divine Agency, as exercised upon the higher elements of human minds. I learn 
further to trace up that agency to the INCARNATE GOD, so as to behold in His DIVINE HUMANITY 
all the fullness of deity and of omnipotence. I am instructed yet further, by the spiritual sense of 
this miracle, to look up to that INCARNATE GOD for protection under all my spiritual trials and 
temptations, and especially for deliverance from the winds and waves of my own boisterous 
passions excited by the destructive influence of the powers of darkness. Lastly, I am taught that 
in such perturbation and tempests of the natural mind, the BLESSED JESUS frequently appears to 
be asleep, and that He can only be awakened by fervent prayer arising from a mind sensible of 
its danger and of its inability to be its own deliverer. I am resolved therefore now on, in all my 
spiritual trials and troubles, to apply to and put my whole trust in the HOLY JESUS, and then I may
humbly hope that he will arise, and rebuke the winds and sea, so as to produce a great calm in 
my disturbed mind. Then too shall I also be led to marvel at the omnipotence of His operations, 
and to answer the interesting question, What manner of man is this, by the devout and grateful 
acknowledgment that HE is GOD over all blessed for ever, the ALPHA AND OMEGA, the BEGINNING 
and the ENDING of all spiritual life, power, protection, benediction, and salvation; to whom be 
ascribed all praise, honour and glory, for ever. AMEN!

- 23-

The Possessed With Devils Coming Out of the Tombs

Matthew 8:28-the end: And when He was come to the other side, to the country of the 
Gergesenes, there met Him two possessed with devils, coming out of the tombs, exceeding fierce, 
so that no man might pass by that way, etc

Q. HOW do you understand the miracle here recorded, according to its literal sense?

A. According to the literal sense of this miracle, are to be understood two men, who, as to their 
bodies, were possessed or obsessed by infernal spirits, coming out from amongst the filth and 
impurity of sepulchres, and so exceeding fierce and ungovernable, that it was unsafe for anyone 
to come near them. And by the devils requesting to be permitted to enter into the herd of swine, 
and by the herd, when such permission was granted, running down a steep place into the sea, 
and perishing in the waters? is further to be understood, that the devils find delight in entering 
into the bodies of unclean animals, and then in instigating those animals to their own destruction.

Q. And how do you understand this miracle according to its spiritual sense, or according to that 
sense which is veiled under the letter?

A. According to the spiritual sense, by two are not to be understood two men, but two principles: 
and by their being possessed of devils, and meeting JESUS is further to be understood, that those 
principles were in connection with the power of darkness, and thus in opposition to the HOLY 
JESUS, that is to say, to his divine love and divine wisdom. And by their coming out of the tombs 
is further to be understood their issuing forth from their infernal abodes: and by their being 
exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way, is further described the violence of their 
opposition to the eternal truth, so that it was impossible for any truth to be manifested before 
them. According to this sense, therefore, by the devils beseeching JESUS to suffer them to enter 
into the herd of swine, and by JESUS permitting them, is further to be understood, that infernal 
spirits take delight in infesting both the bodies and minds of men, and that when, by the Word of 
the GREAT REDEEMER, they are expelled from the minds of the humble, and the penitent, they 
then take refuge, and this by divine permission, in the minds of those who are here figured by the
swine, that is to say, of the sordidly sensual and avaricious, who, under their infernal influence, 
descend rapidly into the infernal pit, and there perish in the polluted waters of all infernal 
persuasions.

Q. And what do you conceive the two principles to be, which are described as possessed of devils
and meeting JESUS?

A. By these two principles are to be understood the principle of evil in the human will, and the 
principle of error in the human understanding, both of them in connection with infernal agency: 
and by their meeting JESUS is further described a trial or temptation which the SAVIOUR OF THE 
WORLD endured from the powers of darkness operating in His infirm humanity, before it was 
fully glorified, or made divine.

- 24-

Q. But it is written, that the devils cried out, saying, What have we to do with you, JESUS, you 
SON OF GOD? Art you come here to torment us before the time? — what do you understand by 
these words?

A. By the devils crying out, saying, What have we to do with you, JESUS, you SON OF GOD? is to 
be understood the vehemence of their opposition to the principles of the divine love and wisdom,
notwithstanding their conviction that those principles were incarnate in the BLESSED JESUS. By 
the same words therefore is described, the torment under which they laboured through the 
opposition between their wills and their understandings, since with their understandings they 
knew the truth, but with their wills they hated and rejected it. They therefore exclaim, Art you 
come here to torment us (or, as it is expressed in the original, to explore us), before the time? to 
denote, that the manifestation of the divine truth was to them a source of the most exquisite 
pangs, because it was in opposition to their ruling love, and that consequently nothing is more 
painful to a wicked infernal being, than to have his purposes and thoughts thus exposed to the 
scrutinizing light of the divine intelligence.

Q. You have already told me what is to be understood by the herd of swine, and by the devils 
requesting permission to enter into them. Can you explain to me what is further to be understood 
by the words of the BLESSED JESUS, where it is written, He said to them, Go?

A. The Significant term Go, involves in it the whole of the divine will respecting the powers of 
darkness, which is, that they be eternally separated from Him, His kingdom, and His children, so 
as to be incapable of doing any mischief either to the GREAT FATHER OF BEING, or to His happy 
family. Under every spiritual trial therefore, stirred up by the powers of darkness in the minds of 
the humble and the penitent, the GREAT SAVIOUR is ever uttering the same authoritative 
command, Go, and the effect of this divine word is, to remove those powers from their usurped 
abode, that they may enter into minds congenial to their own, and precipitate them into their own
infernal kingdom.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above miracle?

A. I learn again to adore that divine power, which was manifested to destroy the works of the 
devil, and overturn their empire, whether established in the bodies or in the souls of men. I learn 
also from the above miracle, that the powers of darkness are in direct opposition to the love and 
wisdom of JESUS CHRIST, and that their greatest torment consists in being explored by the light of
the divine truth, and in the discovery thus made of their secret purposes, thoughts, and devices. I 
am also further instructed, that a single word uttered by the GREAT SAVIOUR is able to put to flight
a host of infernals, and that that SAVIOUR is ever uttering such a word of salvation in the hearts of
all his penitent and suffering children. Lastly, I learn to tremble under the idea of the effect of 
infernal influence, and of those defiled concupiscences in which it operates, since this effect is 
nothing less than a rapidity of motion downwards, hurrying its miserable subjects from the 
realms of bliss, to perish everlastingly in the disturbed waters of impiety and iniquity. I am 
resolved therefore, henceforth to be upon my guard against such infernal agency, and for this 
purpose to endeavour, through divine mercy, to keep my mind pure from all denied affections 

- 25-

and concupiscences. Thus, under the assault of all my spiritual enemies, I may hope to hear the 
authoritative word, Go, pronounced against them by my GOD AND SAVIOUR, and may thus behold
every infernal power cast out, and the BLESSED JESUS glorified in their separation, and in the 
consequent salvation of His humble and grateful child. Thus too I shall be preserved from 
imitating the folly and wickedness of the people amongst whom the above miracle was worked, 
and of whom it is written, that when they saw JESUS, they besought Him to depart out of their 
coasts, since by the experience which I have of the omnipotence and miraculous energy of my 
GOD AND SAVIOUR in my own bosom, I shall be led to cleave to Him the more closely, and to 
beseech Him the more earnestly, not to depart, but rather to take up His eternal abode in my 
purified and grateful bosom. AMEN.

- 26-

The Sick Of The Palsy Healed

Matthew 9:2-9: And, behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed: and 
JESUS, seeing their faith, said to the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good cheer; your sins be 
forgiven you, etc. 

Q. YOU have already told me, in the explanation of a former miracle, what is to be understood 
both naturally and spiritually by the sick of the palsy, and that it implies some obstruction to the 
circulation of the blood in the body, and of truth in the mind, in consequence of which both the 
corporeal and mental organs are rendered incapable of performing their proper functions. Can 
you now tell me why the sick of the palsy, as here recorded, is described as lying on a bed?

A. The reason is, because a bed, according to its spiritual signification, figures and represents the
natural principle of the life of man, since what a literal bed is to the body of a man, that the 
natural principle is to the spirit of a man. For man, it is well known, or may be known, consists 
of two distinct principles, the one natural, the other spiritual; in other words, the one formed to 
be affected by, and to take cognizance of the things of this world, and the other formed to be 
affected by, and to take cognizance of the things of another world, namely. GOD, His law, His 
kingdom, His providence, His perfections, and the relationship subsisting between Him and His 
creatures. Agreeable then to this idea, the natural principle, as being the lowest, may be regarded
as the bed of the spiritual principle, which is above it, because the spiritual principle rests upon, 
and finds its repose in the natural, in like manner as the body of man rests upon, and finds its 
repose in a literal bed. That bed has such a spiritual signification, may be plain from these 
passages in the HOLY WORD, where it is mentioned. Thus it is written in the Book of Psalms; 
Commune with your own heart on your bed, (Psalm 4:4). And again, He deviseth mischief upon 
his bed, (Psalm 36:4). And again, You will make all his bed in his sickness, (Psalm 41:3). And 
again, When I remember you upon my bed, (Psalm 63:6). And again, in Isaiah, The bed is shorter
than that a man can stretch himself on it) (Isa. 28:20). in all which passages, by bed is not meant 
a bed literally, but the natural mind or principle, on which the spiritual mind or principle rests, 
and in which it thinks. The awful sentence therefore against Jezebel was denounced in these 
words, Behold, I will cast her into a bed, (Rev. 2:22), to denote that she would be left to the 
natural mind or principle, and to its false persuasions. It deserves however to be noted, that the 
spiritual bed here spoken of varies according to the state of the natural principle, being a soft 
and easy bed if the natural principle be brought into right subordination to the spiritual, but a 
hard and uneasy bed, if such subordination be wanting. By the sick of the palsy, therefore, lying 
on a bed, is to be understood the connection of the spiritual principle with the natural, and that in
this connection there was some obstruction, which prevented the due circulation of spiritual 
principles and persuasions in the natural life and its principles and persuasions.

Q. But it is said, that JESUS, seeing their faith, said to the sick of the palsy, Son, be of good 
cheer; your sins be forgiven you — what is it you understand by these words of the BLESSED 
JESUS, Son, be of good cheer; your sins be forgiven you?

- 27-

A. JESUS, in calling the sick of the palsy, his son, announces his divine parental affection to all 
His distempered and suffering children, and this is language at once the most tender, most 
consolatory, and most encouraging. When He says again to this son, Be of good cheer, He meant 
to announce, further, the presence and comfort of His own mercy and love, since it is impossible 
that man can be of good cheer, or, as it is expressed in the original, have confidence, by any other
means than the communication and reception of the divine favour and loving-kindness. And 
again, when He pronounces, your sins be forgiven you, He meant to declare the saving blessed 
effect of such favour and loving-kindness, in removing and separating all the principles of sin 
and disorder, thus in purifying the affections and thoughts from all defilement of iniquity, and 
finally restoring the whole man, with all his principles both natural and spiritual, to the order, the 
image, the peace and blessing of GOD and heaven.

Q. But it is added, that certain of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemes, And 
JESUS knowing their thoughts said, Wherefore think you evil in your hearts? — what instruction 
do you learn from these words?

A. I learn that sinful men, especially if their sin be strengthened and supported by human 
learning, and what are commonly called great talents, are ever ready to misinterpret the words of 
the MOST HIGH, and to call His wisdom foolishness, and the declarations of his mercy blasphemy.
I learn further an additional proof of the divinity of my SAVIOUR, manifested so evidently in His 
discernment of the thoughts of those with whom He was conversing; for who but the ONLY GOD 
can possess such discernment? Thirdly, from the significant question, Wherefore think you evil in
your hearts? I am taught to reflect, not only that all evil thoughts proceed from a corrupt heart, 
but also that they are in themselves most unreasonable and groundless, being nothing more or 
less than oppositions to the divine love and wisdom of the Most HIGH GOD.

Q. But the BLESSED JESUS adds, as a proof of the unreasonableness of such evil thoughts, 
Whether is easier to say, Your sins be forgiven you; or to say, Arise, and walk? — what do you 
conceive to be the force and drift of this significant question?

A. My SAVIOUR would instruct me by this significant question, that to forgive sins and to cure 
bodily disease, are acts which equally require the exercise of Divine Omnipotence, and that 
consequently the supernatural cure of a bodily disease implies the power to cure a mental 
disease. He would instruct me therefore to regard all His healing operations, exercised on the 
bodies of men, as proofs most positive of His divine power to exercise similar operations on the 
souls or spirits of men. And the reason is plain, because sin, properly considered, is nothing but a
distemper of the soul; and to forgive sin therefore, or, as it is expressed in the original, to remit it,
means nothing more or less than to remove that distemper. The BLESSED JESUS therefore, by 
every act of healing exercised on the bodies of men, gave a full demonstration of His divine 
power to heal their souls or spirits; in other words, to forgive sins: to which purpose He declares 
afterwards, But that you may know that the SON OF MAN has power on earth to forgive sins, (then
says He to the sick of the palsy) Arise, take up your bed, and go to your house.

- 28-

Q. And what do you conceive to be involved in the words, Arise, take up your bed, and go to 
your house?

A. The injunction to arise, involves in it spiritually an elevation of the affections and thoughts, or
of the will and understanding, from earthly things to heavenly; in other words, from self-love and
the love of the world to the love of GOD and neighbourly love. The injunction again, to take up 
the bed, involves in it a similar elevation of the natural mind, with all its purposes, words and 
works, agreeable to what was said above concerning the spiritual signification of the term bed. 
And lastly, the injunction, go to your house, spiritually considered, involves in it a divine 
exhortation to the sick of the palsy, and thus to every distempered child of man, to retire into the 
interiors of his own mind, where the MOST HIGH has His consecrated abode, and there to dwell 
continually in the enjoyment of the divine presence, favour and benediction of the GOD who 
heals all his infirmities.

Q. In the conclusion it is said, that he arose, and departed to his house. But when the multitude 
saw it, they marvelled, and glorified GOD, which had given such power to men——what do you 
learn from these words?

A. By the sick of the palsy arising, and departing to his house, I am taught to discern the effect 
of the divine word of the MOST HIGH, produced in the ultimates of nature. For such is the quality 
of the divine intention and thought, which is the same thing with the divine word or speech, that 
it ever proceeds to its effect, which effect terminates in the ultimates of the natural world, and 
from thence returns, by re-action, to its divine source. And from the multitude marvelling at the 
sight of the effect, and glorifying GOD which had given such power to men, I am further 
instructed in the true disposition and genuine character of the followers of the BLESSED JESUS, 
that is to say, of the real living members of His church and kingdom, namely. that they adore 
with wonder the effects of His omnipotence, in removing the disorders both of body and mind, 
and thus of restoring man to his original purity, order, and life; and further, that they refer these 
effects to the union of the divine and human nature in the person of the INCARNATE GOD, and thus
worship JESUS CHRIST in His DIVINE HUMANITY as One with the ETERNAL FATHER, consequently 
as the SUPREME AND ONLY GOD, who has all power both in heaven and earth.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn again to adore the power of that merciful GOD AND SAVIOUR, which I find exercised in 
healing the bodily infirmities of mankind. But I learn still more to adore that same divine power 
as applied to the removal of spiritual infirmity and distemper, and as expressing itself in the 
divine consolatory words, Son, be of good cheer your sins be forgiven you. From the account too 
of the above miracle, I receive an additional confirmation of my faith in the divinity of my LORD 
AND SAVIOUR, of whom I find it written, that He knew the thoughts of those with whom He 
conversed, for such knowledge is a peculiar characteristic of divinity, and consequently a 
demonstration that the person possessing it could be no other than the SUPREME GOD. Again I 
learn, that the power of healing bodily disease involves in it, of necessary consequence, the 
power of healing spiritual disease, and that therefore the BLESSED JESUS, in controlling the 

- 29-

disorders of matter, exhibited a proof most positive that the kingdom of mind also was subject to 
His authority, and that of course he was able likewise to control all its disorders, and to restore it 
to its proper health, vigour, and enjoyment. Lastly, I learn what is the true temper and spirit of the
followers of this INCARNATE GOD, or of the members of His church and kingdom, and that their 
minds are continually filled with wonder and adoration at observing the effects of His mercy and 
omnipotence as exhibited both in matter and in mind, and further, that they are led by those 
effects to the acknowledgment of the INCARNATE GOD, and to the devout worship of Him in His 
DIVINE HUMANITY, thus in His ONE-NESS with the ETERNAL FATHER. I am resolved therefore from
now on to take this GOD for my GOD, and to believe in and follow Him, as the RESTORER OF THE 
BREACH in all the principles both of my body and of my mind. So may I humbly hope, in all my 
sorrows and infirmities, to hear from His divine mouth the consolatory words, Son, be of good 
cheer, your sins be forgiven you; and penetrated with a lively and grateful sense of the mercy and
power of these divine words, I may finally experience their blessed efficacy, in enabling me to 
arise, and take up my bed, and go to my house. AMEN. 

- 30-

The Ruler's Daughter Raised

Matthew 9:18-27: While he spoke these things to them, behold, there came a certain ruler, and 
worshiped Him, saying, My daughter is even now dead: but come, and lay your hand upon her, 
and she shall live, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by a certain ruler and his daughter?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by a certain ruler is to be understood a person, who was 
in authority amongst the Jews; and by his daughter is to be understood his daughter according to 
the flesh; but agreeable to the spiritual sense of this miracle, by a certain ruler is to be 
understood the church, or the members of the church, principled in heavenly truths, from which 
comes all spiritual rule or dominion; and by his daughter, in agreement with the same sense, is to
be understood the affection derived from that truth, for such, in the language of inspiration, is the
signification of the term daughter, and therefore so frequent mention is made of the daughter of 
Zion, the daughter of Jerusalem, and the daughter of the uncircumcised, denoting the affection of
good, the affection of truth, and the opposite affections of evil and of error.

Q. What then do you understand by this ruler's daughter being dead, according to this spiritual 
signification of the term?

A. By being dead, according to the sense of the letter, is to be understood natural death, or the 
separation of the soul from the body, but by being dead, according to the spiritual sense, is to be 
understood spiritual death, or the separation of the soul from the life of the love of GOD, and its 
consequent immersion in the unclean loves of self and of the world. When therefore it is said by 
the ruler, My daughter is even now dead, it is to be understood that the affection of truth was thus
separated from heavenly love, and thereby immersed in unclean loves.

Q. But it is added concerning the ruler, that he said to JESUS, Come, and lay your hand upon her, 
and she shall live — what do you conceive to be implied in these words?

A. They are words expressive of a strong faith in the divinity of the GREAT SAVIOUR, and are 
therefore recorded for the instruction and benefit of the church in all succeeding ages. For when 
the ruler says, Come, in application to the GREAT SAVIOUR, he manifestly intended to supplicate 
His divine presence, mercy, and benediction; and when he added, lay your hand upon her, he 
meant further to supplicate a communication with the Divine Omnipotence; and lastly, when he 
concludes, she shall live, he expresses a strong confidence in the effect of such communication, 
by restoring a dead affection to the newness of heavenly life, vigour and enjoyment.

Q. And what do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written, that JESUS arose, 
and followed him, and so did His disciples?

- 31-

A. According to the sense of the letter, by these words is to be understood, that JESUS and His 
disciples rose up, and followed the ruler to his house, but according to the spiritual sense, by 
JESUS arising, is to be understood the elevation of His humanity to a closer and fuller union with 
His divinity, agreeable to the process by which He gradually made His humanity divine, by 
uniting it fully with the ETERNAL FATHER in Himself. This divine process was called His 
glorification, agreeable to His own words, where He says, "Now is the Son of Man glorified, and 
in another place, Father, glorify Your name. And by His following the ruler, is to be understood, 
according to the same sense, the intenseness of His love to fulfill the desire which He had before 
implanted in the ruler's mind. It is added, and so did His disciples, to denote that JESUS and His 
disciples are always united, because His disciples are all those who admit into their wills' and 
understandings His divine love and wisdom.

Q. But it is written, that when JESUS cams into the ruler's house, and saw the minstrels and the 
people making a noise, He said to them, Give place; for the maid is not dead, but sleeps: and 
they laughed Him to scorn — what do you understand by these words?

A. These words, like the foregoing, have their spiritual as well as their literal meaning, and 
according to their spiritual interpretation, by JESUS coming into the ruler's house, is signified His
divine influx into the minds of those who are represented by the ruler, namely. such as are 
principled in the knowledge of the ETERNAL TRUTH, but without that affection, which the truth is 
calculated to produce. And by His seeing the minstrels, and the people making a noise, is further 
signified, according to the same sense, His divine inspection of the disorderly state of their 
affections and thoughts; for by the minstrels are spiritually denoted the things relating to the will;
and by the people, the things relating to the understanding; and by their making a noise, is 
signified the disorderly and. disturbed state of both. Again, by His saying to them, Give place; 
for the maid is not dead, but sleeps, is to be understood, His divine control over that disorder and
disturbance, that so he might restore the affection of truth to its proper state of vigour and 
activity, inasmuch as it was not really dead, or voluntarily and deliberately immersed in evil 
love, but asleep; in other words, immersed for a time, and unintentionally, in mere natural 
appetites and affections. And by their laughing Him to scorn, is further to be understood, that 
they were incapable of apprehending this distinction between death and sleep, and therefore 
made light of it, as a distinction not worth attending to.

Q. It is lastly written, that when the people were put forth. He went in, and took her by the hand, 
and the maid arose. And the fame hereof went abroad into all that land — how do you 
understand these words?

A. By the people being put forth, is to be understood the separation of disorderly thoughts; and 
by His going in, and taking her by the hand, is to be understood His divine influx into the 
affection of truth, and a communication thereby of divine power; and by the maid arising, is 
further to be understood the elevation of that affection out of the natural affections and appetites 
in which it had been immersed. Lastly, by the fame thereof going forth into all that land, is 
denoted the church's acknowledgement of a divine supernatural agency, proceeding from the 
HUMANITY of the INCARNATE GOD.

- 32-

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn again to adore the divine omnipotence of my GOD AND SAVIOUR, as exercised in the 
double kingdom of matter and of mind; of matter, by raising up to life a dead, body; and of mind,
by elevating out of unclean loves a mental affection. I learn further, to distinguish in myself 
between an affection which is dead, and an affection which is asleep, and to see that the latter is 
capable of admitting divine influx and power, and thus of being raised out of sleep; in other 
words, of being elevated out of the natural state into which it was fallen, into a spiritual one of 
life and peace. Lastly, I learn, that before the BLESSED JESUS can operate to advantage either on 
body or on mind, the people must be put forth; in other words, the rabble of unruly and 
disorderly thoughts must be separated, that so the healing virtues of the divine mercy and 
omnipotence may be admitted. I am resolved, therefore, from now on, to apply to this my GOD 
AND SAVIOUR, under all my spiritual infirmities, and especially under that sleep of good 
affections, which, if deliberately indulged in, may prove fatal to my everlasting happiness. And 
further I am resolved, in my application for divine aid, to endeavour to bring my mind into a 
state capable of receiving it, by expelling all those purposes, affections, and tumultuous thoughts,
which have a tendency to banish the BLESSED JESUS from me, and to render ineffectual the divine
power of His healing love and wisdom. AMEN.

- 33-

The Bloody Issue Cured

Matthew 9:20. Behold, a woman, which was diseased of an issue of blood twelve years, came 
behind Him, and touched the hem of His garment, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by a woman which was diseased with an issue of blood twelve
years?

A. By the woman here spoken of, is figured the church, as it existed at that time amongst the 
Jews; and by her being diseased with an issue of blood, is denoted the state of that church in 
regard to the falsification of truth, and the overflow of such falsification. For by bloody in a good 
sense, is signified the divine truth proceeding from the GREAT REDEEMER; and of which it is 
written, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man, and drink His blood, you have no life in you, 
(John 6:53). But in an opposite sense, by blood is signified violence offered to truth, in 
consequence of which it is falsified, by being compelled to confirm the principles of evil in the 
human mind; according to which sense of the word, it is written in the prophet, Your hands are 
full of blood, (Isa. 1:15). and in the Revelations, They have shed the blood of saints and prophets,
and thou have given them blood to drink, (Rev. 16:6). Thus, as the leper was a figure of the 
profanation of truth in the Jewish church at the time of the LORD'S appearing among them; and as
the sick of the palsy was a figure equally striking of the want of circulation of heavenly wisdom 
in that church; and as the fever was a figure of the concupiscencies of evil which then abounded; 
and as the possessed of devils were figures of the ascendancy of the powers of darkness which 
were then prevalent; in like manner the woman here spoken of, who was diseased with an issue 
of blood twelve years, was also a representative figure, and this a most exact one, of another 
corruption in that church, which corruption consisted in its propensity to falsify truth, or to 
pervert it to the confirmation of evil. It is said twelve years, to denote that this had always been 
the case with that church; for years, according to the spiritual sense, signify states of the church, 
and twelve signify all.

Q. But it is said of this woman, that she came behind Him, and touched the hem of His garment; 
for she said within herself, If I may but touch His garment, I shall be whole — what do you here 
understand by the woman coming behind JESUS, and touching the hem of His garment?

A. The term behind, when applied to the BLESSED JESUS, denotes the exterior things of His Word,
of the church and of worship, since as His face, or front, is expressive of His mercy, love, and 
innocence, in like manner His back, or back-parts, are expressive of what proceeds from his 
mercy, love, and innocence, that is to say, of His wisdom, truth, and the faith to which that truth 
gives birth. Accordingly, it is written in the book of Exodus concerning Moses, when he desired 
to see the glory of Jehovah, You shall see my back-parts, but my face shall not be seen, (Exod. 
33:23), to denote, that he was not qualified to behold the ALMIGHTY as He really is, beaming with
divine love, but only to behold Him in His Word, and in His works, according to the 
manifestation of His divine wisdom. It is therefore added, that she touched the hem of His 
garment, because the hem of his garment is expressive of the same idea, namely. of the exterior 

- 34-

things of the Word, of the church, and of worship. For garment, according to the spiritual idea, 
when applied to the GREAT REDEEMER, denotes the divine truth of His wisdom, which invests, as 
it were, the divine good of His love; in agreement with which signification it is written of Him, 
that He clothed Himself with light as with a garment, (Psalm 104:2); and the hem of this garment
manifestly means its most external part; whilst to touch it denotes communication with that part. 
On this occasion, therefore, the woman touched the hem of JESUS ' s garment, because she was 
incapable at the time of any nearer communication with Him than by the mere externals of His 
Word or truth.

Q. But it is added further, that she said within her self, If I may but touch His garment, I shall be 
whole — how do you understand these words?

A. By saying within herself, is to be understood her interior thought, or persuasion; and by 
saying. If I may touch His garment, I shall be whole, is to be understood the interior thought or 
persuasion, that any communication with the BLESSED JESUS, however remote, would be 
sufficient for the cure of all her infirmities; and thus the words are expressive of an extraordinary
degree of faith in her GOD and SAVIOUR, which, as it afterwards appears, was her qualification to 
receive from Him the blessing of health which she wanted.

Q. And what do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written, that JESUS turned
Him about; and when He saw her, He said, Daughter, be of good comfort, your faith has made 
you whole?

A. By JESUS turning Him about, is to be understood the manifestation of his divine mercy or 
love; and by seeing the woman, is denoted inspection from that mercy and love; and by saying, 
Daughter, be of good comfort, is further to be understood the communication of those blessed 
principles, from parental affection; and by adding, your faith has made you whole, is lastly 
denoted, that such communication was the result of a belief in His divine omnipotence, thus a 
belief that He was the SUPREME and ONLY GOD; for such is the faith, or belief which in the gospel
is called saving, and to which all things are declared possible, and the reason is, because it is a 
faith, or belief, not of man, but of GOD, agreeable to the proper character of faith described by 
JESUS CHRIST in another place, where He says, Have the faith of GOD, (Mark 11:22).

Q. It is said in the conclusion, that the woman was made whole from that same hour— what do 
you suppose to be involved in these words?

A. They involve the effect produced by the words of the GREAT SAVIOUR, thus they imply, not 
only that the woman was cured of her natural infirmity, which was an issue of blood, but also of 
her spiritual infirmity, or violent propensity to falsify truth, and consequently that she was 
restored to the blessing of a sound mind, which consists in loving the truth for its own sake, and 
practising it for the sake of that good with which it is connected, and to which it leads. It is 
added, in that same hour, to show that this effect was the result of her communication with the 
BLESSED JESUS, and was therefore the real fruit of His mercy and love, although He ascribes it to 

- 35-

the woman's faith, which in reality is the same thing, since that faith was the product of the same 
divine mercy and love.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. From the issue of blood, which is the subject of this miracle, I am taught to reflect on that 
more terrible issue of blood which it figures, namely. the falsification of truth, which at that time 
prevailed in the Jewish church, and which. consists in perverting the truth from its proper 
purpose of purity and holiness of life, and making it favour evil purposes, which are contrary to 
purity and holiness. I learn further, that a remedy is still provided by the divine mercy for such 
falsification, and that this remedy consists in applying to the INCARNATE GOD, and to the truths of
His MOST HOLY WORD, in the spirit of true repentance and obedience. I am resolved, therefore, 
whenever I feel any propensity in myself to do violence to the ETERNAL TRUTH, by wresting it to 
an evil purpose, to imitate the conduct of the woman as recorded in the history of this miracle, by
applying immediately to my GOD and SAVIOUR, and touching, if it be but the hem of his garment, 
through the power of that faith, which acknowledges the DIVINITY of His HUMANITY, and thus 
that He is the SUPREME and ONLY GOD even as to that HUMANITY. Then may I humbly hope that 
my issue of blood will be staunched, and that although at first I come behind the BLESSED JESUS, 
and behold only His back-parts, yet presently He will turn Himself about, and make manifest His
blessed face of mercy and loving-kindness, whilst I hear from His gracious lips the consolatory 
words. Be of good comfort, your faith has made you whole. AMEN.

- 36-

The Two Blind Men Restored To Sight

Matthew 9:27-32.

And when JESUS departed thence, two blind men followed Him, crying and saying, You Son of 
David, have mercy on us, etc. 

Q. YOU have already told me that the Leprosy, the Palsy, the Fever, the Possessed of Devils, and 
the Bloody Issue, are to be understood not only literally, but figuratively, as expressing the 
spiritual disorders prevalent at that time in the Jewish church, and that there is reason to suppose 
that all the infirmities and distempers, for which the BLESSED JESUS provided a remedy, are to be 
considered in this same figurative character. Can you tell me then, according to this idea, what is 
to be understood by the two blind men above-mentioned?

A. By blindness, according to its figurative meaning, is to be understood, the want of spiritual 
intelligence respecting the things of heaven and of the church, for what the eye is to the body, 
that the understanding is to the mind, and consequently what the loss of eye-sight is to the 
corporeal part of man, that the loss of intellectual sight is to his spiritual part. By these two blind 
men, therefore, was figured the want of spiritual understanding in the Jewish church at that 
period; and since the want of spiritual understanding ie two-fold, namely. the want of the 
understanding of truth; and the want of the understanding of good, therefore two blind men are 
here recorded. For the same reason, and in agreement with the same figure, man is gifted with 
two eyes, one having reference to the understanding of good, and the other to the understanding 
of truth; on which ground it is that JESUS CHRIST says, If your right eye offend you, pluck it out, 
and cast it from you, (Matthew 5:29), for by the right eye is signified the understanding of good, 
and therefore this eye, and not the left, was to be plucked out, and cast away, in case it offended; 
in other words, in case it favoured the love of evil, since the left eye, as denoting the 
understanding of truth, was not capable of offending in the same degree.

Q. But it is said of these two blind men, that they followed JESUS, crying, and saying, Son of 
David, have mercy on us — how do you understand these words?

A. By the two blind men following JESUS, is to be understood, according to the figurative or 
spiritual sense of the history, that they were made sensible of their want of spiritual 
understanding; and not only so, but they were also sensible that the BLESSED JESUS was able to 
open their spiritual eyes, and give them the spiritual sight which they wanted. They accordingly 
are described as crying and saying, in the supplication which they make on the occasion; because
the term crying is expressive of the strong desire of their wills to receive the light of truth, as the 
term saying is expressive of the thought of their understanding on the same subject. It is 
remarkable also, that they address the GREAT REDEEMER under His two-fold character, as a MAN, 
and as a GOD ; as a MAN, when they call Him the Son of DAVID; and as a GOD, when they say, 
have mercy on us. Thus they supplicate Him as a GOD-MAN; or as GOD made manifest in a DIVINE
HUMANITY, and dwelling bodily with all His fullness in that HUMANITY.

- 37-

Q. And what do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written, When He was 
come into the house, the blind men came to Him; and: JESUS says to them, Believe you that I am 
able to do this? They say to Him, Yea, Lord.

A. According to the spiritual sense of this history, by JESUS coming into the house, is to be 
understood His divine influx of love and wisdom into His church, which is properly his house 
and temple ; His house, so far as His church is principled in heavenly good of love and charity; 
and His temple, so far as she is principled in heavenly truth of wisdom and intelligence. And by 
the two blind men coming to Him in the house, is to be understood, their spiritual communication
and conjunction with Him by virtue of that influx. Again, by JESUS saying to them, Believe you 
that I am able to do this? was intended to be expressed an exploration of the nature and quality 
of their faith, and how far they believed in His omnipotence; and by their replying, Yea, Lord, is 
to be understood their full persuasion of His divine ability, and their consequent conviction that 
from His divine power they might hope to receive the blessing of spiritual sight, or of a right 
understanding both of what is good and what is true,

Q. But it is lastly written, that JESUS touched their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it to 
you: and their eyes were opened; and JESUS strictly charged them, saying. See that no man know
it. But they, when they were departed, spread abroad His fame in all that country — what do you
conceive to be the meaning of these words?

A. By JESUS touching their eyes, isto be spiritually understood, His communication by divine 
influx with the understanding, or intellectual principle of His church or people, since the touch is 
figurative of communication; and by His saying, According to your faith be it to you, is further to
be understood, in agreement with the spiritual idea, that the recovery of spiritual light, or, what is
the same thing, of intellectual light in the church, would depend entirely on a right belief in the 
divine omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, or, what amounts to the same, in the omnipotence of 
the DIVINE HUMANITY of that GOD; consequently, that there can be no true understanding, or no 
understanding of truth in the church, only so far as JESUS CHRIST is acknowledged to be the 
ONLY GOD, and approached and worshiped in His DIVINE HUMANITY. By their eyes being opened,
is further to be understood, the effect of the above faith in the imparting of spiritual 
understanding, - or the understanding of truth; and by JESUS strictly charging them, saying, See 
that no man know, is meant divine caution, lest the omnipotence of the DIVINE HUMANITY, thus 
exercised in the recovery of spiritual sight, should be regarded in a mere speculative way, as a 
truth manifested merely in the understanding, instead of making its proper impression on the 
will, and thus exciting devout affection of love and gratitude to the giver of all good, and 
particularly to the bestower of all spiritual light of intellectual truth. Lastly, by the men, when 
they were departed, spreading abroad His fame in all the country, is denoted that the divine 
honour due to the INCARNATE GOD, in His DIVINE HUMANITY, is made known in the church, in 
proportion as the understanding of truth is restored, and the human intellect becomes thus 
receptive of the light of heavenly wisdom; for by country, is here spiritually to be understood, the
church ; and by His fame, is meant the divine honour and worship due to the DIVINE HUMANITY 
of the BLESSED JESUS ; and by His fame being spread abroad, is manifestly denoted its being 
made known, acknowledged, and celebrated.

- 38-

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn again to adore the omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, as exercised in removing the 
infirmities of mankind, and particularly in restoring the great blessing of bodily sight to those 
who had lost it. I learn also, that this miracle, like all the others performed by the GREAT 
REDEEMER, is figure, and that in its figurative sense or meaning, it involves in it the restoration of
spiritual sight to the church, or the recovery of that spiritual understanding of heavenly truth 
which had been lost. Lastly, I learn, that spiritual sight, or spiritual understanding, can only be 
recovered by faith in JESUS CHRIST, as the manifested GOD ; thus by faith in His DIVINE 
HUMANITY, as being one with the ETERNAL FATHER, and therefore containing in it all the fullness 
of the Godhead. I am resolved, therefore, now on to draw near to this OMNIPOTENT GOD, as the 
only restorer of spiritual sight; thus as the only Deliverer from the natural blindness into which I 
was born, and in which I have been educated, that so my understanding may be opened to see by 
the bright light of the ETERNAL TRUTH, and my will may accordingly be affected, and elevated to 
the pursuit of the SUPREME GOOD. And since I cannot hope to attain these signal blessings, only 
so far as I prepare myself for their reception, I am further resolved, under a deep sense of my 
natural ignorance and blindness, to imitate the example of the two blind men recorded in the 
history of this miracle, by following my REDEEMER, crying and saying, You SON of DAVID, have 
mercy on me. Thus may I hope to experience the virtue of His divine touch, and to hear His 
blessed words, According to your faith be it to you: and thus too will my spiritual eyes be 
opened, and like the blind men of old, I shall be admitted to the inestimable privilege of 
spreading abroad the fame of my GOD and SAVIOUR, by acknowledging Him in His DIVINE 
HUMANITY to be the only Deliverer from spiritual blindness, because the only Giver of true light, 
as well as of the faculty to receive it. AMEN.

- 39-

The Devil Cast Out From the Dumb Man

Matt 9:32-36

As they went out, behold, they brought to Him a dumb man possessed with a devil, etc.

Q. YOU have already told me, in the explanation of a former parable, that by being possessed of 
a devil, is to be understood possession as to the body, or corporeal part, as well as with respect to
the mind, or mental part; and that it consisted in the subjection of the corporeal parts or members
to the rule and governance of infernal spirits --- can you now tell me what is to be understood by 
the dumb man here spoken of?

A. The dumbness here spoken of may be considered in two senses, a natural sense, and a 
spiritual sense; and according to the natural sense of the term, it means a deprivation of the use 
of the tongue, or of the organs of speech, so that the dumb person is incapable of articulation; but
according to the spiritual sense of the term, it implies a deprivation of that principle in which all 
speech originates, namely. the principle of thought, so that a spiritually dumb person is incapable
of exercising the faculty of thinking, and especially of thinking on spiritual subjects, and thus of 
confessing that the LORD is GOD, The miracle, therefore, under consideration, has respect to both 
these kinds of dumbness, and to its cure through the omnipotence of the GREAT REDEEMER. It is 
also to be further considered, that the dumbness here spoken of, like the blindness treated of in a 
former miracle, was figurative, and that in its figurative character it was representative of the 
state of the Jewish church at that period, which state was such, that they were incapable of 
exercising spiritual thought, thus of elevating their understandings to the contemplation of 
spiritual and eternal objects, and of confessing their GOD accordingly.

Q. But it is written, that when the devil was cast out, the dumb spoke — what do you here 
understand by the devil being cast out, and by the dumb speaking?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by the devil being cast out, is to be understood, that the 
man was liberated from the possession which infernal spirits had gained over his bodily organs; 
and by the dumb speaking, according to the same sense, is to be understood, that the man 
recovered the use of speech in consequence of such liberation. But according to the spiritual 
sense of the miracle here recorded, by the devil being cast out, is to be understood, the man's 
emancipation from the dominion of the powers of darkness, as to his mind or spirit; and by the 
dumb speaking, is further to be understood, according to the same sense, the consequent 
liberation of the faculty of thought, and especially of spiritual thought; so that whereas the man, 
when under infernal influence, was incapable of elevating his understanding to the contemplation
of spiritual and eternal objects; he now acquired a capacity of thinking, and thus of meditating on
the WORD of GOD, and of making confession accordingly.

Q. And what do you conceive to be implied in the words which immediately follow, where it is 
written, that the multitude marvelled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel?

- 40-

A. By the multitude marvelling, is to be understood the holy awe with which their minds were 
struck at witnessing the effect of the divine omnipotence of the SAVIOUR GOD, manifested in the 
subjugation and separation of the powers of darkness, and in the consequent liberation of the 
church, both as to bodily and mental faculties, so that not only the bodily tongue was loosed, but 
the mental thought, from which the tongue derives the exercise of its powers, was set at liberty to
employ itself on spiritual subjects, and thus to elevate itself to spiritual and eternal objects : and 
by saying, it was never so seen in Israel, is implied that the church never before witnessed such 
divine effects; and that consequently the SAVIOUR, in whom those effects originated, must be the 
GOD of heaven and earth, thus the ETERNAL JEHOVAH.

Q. But it is added, that the Pharisees said, He casteth out devils through the prince of the devils 
— what do you learn from these words?

A. I learn from these words, that wherever evil and error have taken possession of the human 
heart, inconsistency and mistaken judgement are sure to be found there. For what idea could be 
more inconsistent, and what judgement more groundless, than to suppose that any being can act 
against himself and his own interest? Yet when the Pharisees conceived that power to cast out 
devils, was derived from the prince of the devils, what is this but conceiving that the prince of 
the devils acts in opposition to himself, and to the interests of his own kingdom? Well, therefore, 
might the BLESSED JESUS exclaim on this occasion, as it is written in another place, How can 
Satan cast out Satan? Yet the blindness of the Pharisees of old, in not acknowledging the divine 
power of JESUS CHRIST, exercised in the casting out of devils, isnot greater than what prevails at 
this day in the minds of many Christians, whilst they are not aware, that every opposition to the 
kingdom of darkness in themselves, every combat against their natural evils, every restraint 
made to their bad passions, and every victory obtained over them, are manifest proofs and 
demonstrations of the same divine presence and agency, since it is as impossible for man to 
combat and overthrow the enemies of his salvation, by any power merely his, own, as it is for the
prince of the devils to cast out devils, as for Satan to cast out Satan.

Q. It is further added, that JESUS went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their 
synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every 
disease amongst the people — what instruction do you learn from these words?

A. I learn again to adore the goodness of that Divine Being, whose life was thus spent in 
providing for the necessities, and supplying the wants, both spiritual and natural, of his distressed
creatures. I learn further to adore the gift

of that DIVINE WORD, or SPEECH, which was powerful at once to remove the distempers both of 
mind and body, and thus to restore man to all the health and strength of heavenly life and order in
every principle of his constitution. I am taught also to mark some singular and edifying 
distinctions, which here occur in the letter of the divine history, such as the distinction between 
teaching and preaching and also the distinction between sickness and disease.

- 41-

Q. And what do you suppose to be the ground and meaning of these distinctions? A. The 
distinction in both cases originates in the distinction between the two universal principles of 
good and truth, and also of their opposites, evil and error; and the distinction is marked in the 
sacred history, in order to lead the reader to a right apprehension of those eternal principles, their 
distinct natures, and yet their union in that distinction. The term teaching, therefore, is applied to 
denote the divine truth of doctrine, which ever influenced the speech of the INCARNATE GOD; 
whilst the term preaching is applied to denote the power of divine love from which He spoke, and
to which His divine speech was intended to conduct his hearers. Thus both terms united were 
designed to express that divine and heavenly marriage of love and wisdom, or of goodness and. 
truth, which constitutes the very life and soul of the ETERNAL WORD ; and of which JESUS CHRIST
speaks in another place, where He says, My words are spirit and life; spirit having relation to 
their wisdom or truth; and life having relation to the love and good from which that wisdom and 
truth flowed. In like manner the two terms, sickness and disease, were intended to express the 
opposite or infernal marriage, namely. the marriage of evil and error; sickness having relation to 
the one, and disease to the other, whilst both united express the conjunction of those principles in
the human mind, and thus express the true nature of man's destruction, which has no other source
than that infernal union.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above miracle?

A. I learn that there is a spiritual dumbness as well as a natural one, and that the LORD GOD the 
SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST, is the only Being in the universe who has power to remove either. I 
learn, therefore, not only that the organs of bodily speech are under His divine control, but also 
the organs of spiritual speech, which are nothing more or less than the principles and persuasions
of spiritual thought. I learn further, that both the above kinds of dumbness are in connection with 
disorderly spirits, and that they cannot be cured, only so far as those spirits are first cast out, I am
yet further instructed, that the manifestation of divine power, as exhibited in. the cure of both 
kinds of dumbness, has a double effect on different minds, exciting in the well-disposed, a sacred
awe and adoration, and leading them to exclaim, It was never so seen in Israel; whilst with the 
ill-disposed it produces a contrary effect of calumny and misinterpretation, leading them to 
exclaim, He casteth out devils through the prince of the devils. Lastly, I learn, that in all the 
words of the BLESSED JESUS, there is a twofold principle, which He Himself distinguishes by the 
names of spirit and life; and which is marked in the above history by the terms teaching and 
preaching, the former having relation to the divine wisdom or truth, and the latter to the divine 
love or goodness. In agreement with this distinction is that of the opposite principles, or of evil 
and error, one of which is therefore called sickness, whilst the other is called disease. I am 
resolved, therefore, now on to regard all my powers of speech, whether natural or spiritual, as 
gifts from the Almighty Dispenser of all good, and to employ them accordingly to His glory, the 
benefit of my fellow-creatures, and the consequent promotion of my own salvation. Thus shall I 
ever, in the use of those powers, be struck with a sacred awe and adoration, which will lead me 
also to exclaim with the multitude of old, It was never so seen in Israel; and thus too shall I 
escape the terrible misinterpretation and perversion of miraculous agency, by which the Pharisees
of old were deceived, and instead of joining in their infernal cry, He casteth out devils through 
the prince of the devils, I shall joyfully and gratefully ascribe the agency to the inexpressible 

- 42-

mercy and omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, whose high and holy name is JESUS CHRIST. 
Lastly, I am resolved to regard all the words of JESUS CHRIST in their two-fold character of spirit
and life; in other words, of wisdom and love, or of goodness and truth; and to take good heed to 
myself lest I ever separate those principles in my own mind, by receiving truth in my 
understanding without good in my will, or good in my will without truth in my understanding. To
the same purpose, I am resolved to distinguish well in myself the opposite principles of evil and 
error, calling one sickness and the other disease, and to apply to the GREAT REDEEMER for the 
cure of both, under the full conviction that they never can be cured but by the joint reception of 
His love, or goodness in my will, and of His wisdom or truth in my understanding, and of both in
my life and conversation. AMEN.

- 43-

The Withered Hand Restored

Matt 12:9-14.

And when He was departed thence, He went into their synagogue; and behold, there was a man 
which had his hand withered, etc.

Q. WHAT do you conceive to be meant here by a withered hand?

A. According to the literal or natural idea, by a withered hand is to be understood the member of 
the body so called, deprived of its life and consequent use, for want of a free circulation of vital 
powers; but according to the spiritual idea, by a withered hand is to be understood a faculty or 
power of the human mind, deprived also of its life and energy for want of a free circulation of 
vital principles. For the hand of the body, as being created to execute the purposes of the soul, is 
a figure of power, or strength; and since all spiritual power and strength is of two kinds, namely. 
intellectual and voluntary; the one originating in the understanding, and the other in the will, or 
the one originating in truth, and the other in good; therefore every man has two hands, in like 
manner as he has two eyes, and two ears, the one being intended to express the power of truth in 
the intellect, whilst the other is intended to express the power derived from good in the will. By 
the withered hand therefore, recorded in the above history, is spiritually figured the state of the 
Jewish church at that period, in that it was deprived of one of the above spiritual powers, so that 
its members were principled either in truth without good, or in good without truth; thus either in 
understanding without will, or in will without understanding; and this by reason of the want of 
circulation of the divine principles of heavenly love and wisdom in their minds and lives. 
Accordingly, in the original tongue, the term rendered withered is expressive of the idea of 
dryness, and therefore the withered hand might properly have been rendered a dry hand, to 
denote that the power of truth or of good was dried up, through a defect of the circulation of 
heavenly life in the interiors of the mind. It is remarkable also that JESUS CHRIST in speaking of 
the hand which offended, and was to be cut off and cast away, (Matthew 5:30), confines his 
observation to the right hand, because the right hand, like the right eye, has respect to the will of 
man, as the left has respect to the understanding; and therefore JESUS CHRIST, by his injunction 
to cut off and cast away the offending right hand, meant to inculcate this edifying lesson, that 
man ought to pay more attention to the evil desires in his will, than to the erroneous persuasions 
in his understanding, because all real offence comes from the former, and not at all from the 
latter, only so far as they are connected with and derived from the former.

Q. But it is written in the history, that the people present proposed this question to the BLESSED 
JESUS, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath-day? that they might accuse Him: to which He replied, 
What man shall there be among you that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the 
sabbath-day, will he not lay hold of it, and lift it out? How much then is a man better than a 
sheep? — what instruction do you learn from the above question, and the answer which was 
given to it?

- 44-

A. The above question is grounded in a mistaken idea of that rest which is figured by the 
sabbath, and is involved in it, as if it implied an absolute cessation from all work or operation of 
the body; whereas it only implies a cessation, from the work or labour of the mind, all which 
work or labour originates in man's evils, and their connection with the powers of darkness, 
according as it is written, There is no peace [or rest,] says the LORD, for the wicked, (Isaiah 
48:22). JESUS CHRIST accordingly, in his reply to the above question, confirms the above idea of 
the sabbath, as involving in it, not the mere rest of the body only, but the rest of the soul; in other
words, a cessation from sin, which is the only true cause of what can properly be called labour, 
since the work of the body is not properly labour, only so far as it is done unwillingly, and thus 
not in the spirit of that freedom, which heavenly love and heavenly wisdom never fail to inspire. 
For such is the force of His divine argument, if regarded only according to the letter, thus as 
implying that it is lawful on the sabbath-day to save the life of a sheep, which has fallen into a 
pit. But how much greater is the force of this argument when spiritually understood, or when 
interpreted according to its spiritual and internal meaning! For according to that meaning, by a 
sheep is here to be understood, the affection of good in man; and by this sheep falling into a pit is
to be further understood, the affection of good immersed in false principles and persuasions; for 
by a pit, and especially an infernal pit, whenever the expression occurs in the sacred scriptures, 
such persuasions and principles are always signified. The argument of the BLESSED JESUS 
therefore, when considered in its full force, is this, that, as He afterwards expresses it, Itis lawful 
to do well on the sabbath-day; mother words, it is lawful to save the life of a sheep, whether 
considered in a natural or a spiritual sense, thus it is lawful to do any thing by which the benefit 
either of animal or of mental life may be promoted; this being the very ground and intention of 
the sabbath to promote the best interests of man, and therefore especially to lift the sheep out of 
the pit; in other words, to elevate the affection of good out of false persuasions, to seek 
conjunction with the ETERNAL TRUTH, and thus with the GOD of that truth, which is the true 
sabbath.

Q. And what further instruction do you learn from the question which JESUS CHRIST proposes on 
this occasion, when He asks, How much then is a man better than a sheep?

A. I am led by the question to examine the distinct natures and qualities of a man and of a sheep;
and from such examination I am conducted to the important discovery, that a man and a sheep 
are distinguished from each other principally by this mark and character , that, man, as being 
figurative of heavenly wisdom or intelligence, has thus the faculty from GOD of elevating his 
thought to an eternal end; and not only so, but also of acknowledging in humility and 
thankfulness, that his life, with all its powers and enjoyments, are from a divine source, and 
capable of being conjoined with that source; whereas a sheep, as being figurative only of a 
natural affection, possesses no such quality, being not only incapable of elevating his thought to 
an eternal object, but also of conjoining himself by affection with any other but temporal objects.

Q. But it is lastly added, Then says He to the man, Stretch forth your hand: and he stretched it 
forth, and it was restored whole, like as the other — what do you here understand by the 
injunction of JESUS CHRIST, stretch forth your hand; and by the man's compliance, as expressed 
in these words, and he stretched it forth?

- 45-

A. According to the literal sense of the history, both the LORD'S injunction and the man's 
compliance, have relation only to the stretching forth the hand of the body which had before 
been withered; but according to the spiritual sense of the miracle here recorded, by the LORD'S 
injunction to stretch out his hand, is to be understood the divine will and pleasure, that man 
should exercise freely, and as of himself, the powers both of love and of wisdom, or of goodness 
and truth, imparted to him continually by his MERCIFUL CREATOR; yet that he should do so under 
the constant grateful acknowledgment that those powers are not his own, but perpetual gifts from
a divine bounty; and by the man's compliance with this injunction is further to be understood, his
free exertion of the spiritual powers with which he was invested, whilst he humbly 
acknowledged that those powers were from GOD, and yet exercised them as if they were his own,
absolutely independent of their divine source.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the force and meaning of the concluding words, And it was 
restored whole, like as the other?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words again have reference only to the hands of the 
body, teaching that one was made sound and whole as the other; but according to the spiritual 
sense, they have a deeper meaning and signification, as having relation to the mental powers 
above spoken of, namely. to the power of the human will, and the power of the human 
understanding; in other words, to the power of goodness, and to the power of truth, or, as it may 
be otherwise expressed, to the power of love, and to the power of wisdom. Agreeable, therefore, 
to this application of the words, they were intended to teach the important and edifying lesson, 
that when either of the above powers has been in a state of disorder and infirmity, and is 
afterwards restored by divine aid to order and strength, its restoration is such, in measure and 
degree, as to render it exactly suited to the other, so that each power shall be equally balanced 
and proportioned to the other. Thus, as in the formation of the human body, a Wonderful 
providence, we find, is continually in exercise, to preserve a due proportion of the limbs, so that 
the right arm, and the right leg, for instance, may be exactly fitted to the left, both in size and 
shape; in like manner the same providence is continually operative to preserve the same fitness 
and meetness in the powers of the mind, and this in such a sort, that the power of the will shall 
always keep pace with the power of the understanding; or what is the same thing, the power of 
goodness with the power of truth, and vice versa. Accordingly, it is ordained of the divine 
wisdom and mercy, that no man shall possess more of goodness than he possesses of truth, or 
more of love than he possesses of wisdom, or more of will than he possesses of understanding, 
and vice versa ; and this, with the divine view, that the spiritual form of man, like the bodily, may
be in exact harmony and proportion, which would not be the case, unless the relative powers 
were fitted to each other in the manner above described.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. Under the figure of a withered hand, I learn to discern, not only a bodily imperfection and 
weakness, but also a mental one, consisting in a defect of the operation either of love or of 
wisdom, or, what amounts to the same, either of goodness or of truth, in the church in general, 
and in its members in particular. But whilst I am taught thus to see and to lament human defect 

- 46-

and imperfection, I am taught, at the same time, to discover and to rejoice in a divine mercy and 
omnipotence, brought near in the INCARNATE GOD, for the removal of disorder, and the 
restoration of order in the diseased constitution of man. I am resolved, therefore, under all my 
spiritual infirmities, to apply to that GOD for relief, and especially when I find that my hand is 
withered, whether it arise from a defect of heavenly love and goodness in my will, or of heavenly
wisdom and truth in my understanding. I am resolved also to cherish in my mind and life the just 
and proper idea of the sabbath-day, which is inculcated in the history of this miracle, by 
believing it to be a day sanctified to welldoing, or to the performance of all those good works 
which lead to the enjoyment of an eternal sabbath, consisting in deliverance from the powers of 
evil, and in consequent restoration to a blessed conjunction of life with the FATHER OF MERCIES, 
whose high and holy name is JESUS CHRIST. Thus may I humbly hope under every defect and 
infirmity, whether of will or of understanding, to hear from my SAVIOUR GOD the blessed 
injunction, Stretch forth thy hand: and thus, too, shall I further rejoice in complying willingly 
with that injunction, until each faculty of my mind be restored to harmony and due proportion 
with the other, so that in me may be fulfilled the concluding words of the above memorable 
history, It was restored whole, like as the other. AMEN.

- 47-

The Devil Cast Out From the Blind and Dumb

Matt 12:22-29.

Then was brought to Him one possessed with a devil, blind and dumb, etc.

Q. YOU have already told me what is to be understood by being possessed of a devil. Can you 
now tell me what is here further to be understood by one blind and dumb?

A. According to the letter of the history, by one blind and dumb is to be understood a person 
deprived of bodily sight, and of bodily speech; but according to the spiritual sense, is to be 
understood the state of the Jewish church at that period, which, in consequence of being 
immersed in the evil of self-love, and the love of the world, was blind to the knowledge of 
heavenly truth, and overspread with the darkness of false principles and persuasions, by reason 
of which it was also dumb, or unable to think, to utter, and to teach any truth of doctrine 
conducive to good of life. For there are two distinct origins of spiritual dumbness, one in the 
will, and the other in the understanding, and the latter is here recorded, because connected with 
blindness; whereas, when the former is noticed, it is connected with deafness, (Mark 9:25), 
blindness having relation to a defect of truth in the understanding, arising from the influence of 
false principles and persuasions; and deafness having relation to a defect of good in the will, by 
reason of the influence of evil love and corrupt affections. 

Q. Do you conceive, then, that there is any necessary connection between blindness and 
dumbness?

A. Not according to the literal meaning of those two bodily imperfections, but, according to the 
spiritual meaning, the connection, I conceive, is both, necessary and close. For blindness, 
according to the spiritual idea, implies a defect of the spiritual light of truth in the human 
understanding, through the influence of false principles and persuasions; and where this is the 
case, spiritual dumbness must be a necessary consequence, because without spiritual thought 
derived from the light of truth in the understanding, it is impossible for man to give utterance to 
truth; and if he cannot give utterance to truth, he is then spiritually dumb, agreeable to what has 
been above observed concerning this spiritual infirmity.

Q. And what do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written, He healed him, 
insomuch that the blind and dumb both spoke and saw?

A. By He, is to be understood the GREAT SAVIOUR, whose name is JESUS CHRIST; and by healing 
him, is further to be understood the restoration of the blessing of sight and of speech, whether 
considered in a natural or in a, spiritual sense. By the blind and dumb therefore both speaking 
and seeing, is further to be understood the effect of the healing virtue applied by the GREAT 
REDEEMER, and made manifest both naturally and spiritually; naturally by opening the eyes of 
one who had been blind, and by unloosing his tongue; and spiritually by opening the eyes of the 

- 48-

understanding also, to see by the bright light of the ETERNAL TRUTH, and at the same time by 
unloosing the organs of spiritual speech, to give utterance to that truth, and thus to declare the 
praises of the INCARNATE GOD.

Q. But it is written further, that all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the Son of 
David? But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow does not cast out devils, but by 
Beelzebub the prince of the devils — how do you understand what is here said of the people, and 
the opposite sentiment ascribed to the Pharisees?

A. By the people being amazed, is to be understood the sacred awe with which their minds were 
impressed on observing the operation of the divine power exercised upon the blind and dumb 
man possessed with a devil; and by their exclamation, Is not this the Son of David? is further to 
be understood, the unanimous conviction worked in their minds by a supernatural agency, that 
JESUS CHRIST was the expected Messiah, and consequently was a being more than human. 
Again, by the Pharisees saying, This fellow does not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince 
of the devils, is to be understood the lamentable perversion of the divine truth in the minds of all 
hypocrites, or of those who practise external piety, while their hearts are totally void of the 
heavenly spirit and love of charity. For the miracle above recorded was a manifest proof of 
divine agency, being worked, as JESUS CHRIST afterwards declares (verse 28), by the Spirit of 
GOD. But the Spirit of GOD is the Spirit of divine truth; and therefore the Pharisees, in ascribing 
the miracle to Beelzebub, proved themselves guilty of that most terrible and unpardonable of all 
sins, the sin against the HOLY GHOST, which is nothing else but the perversion and consequent 
profanation of divine truth. Moreover, by Beelzebub is meant the god of flies; and by flies, 
according to their spiritual signification, are to be understood the false principles and persuasions
of the natural mind; therefore the Pharisees in ascribing the miracle to Beelzebub, and not to the 
SPIRIT of GOD, not only perverted and profaned the truth; but gave a manifest proof of their own 
folly, by supposing that the prince of the devils could oppose himself and his own kingdom, or 
that Satan could cast out Satan. Yet such, alas! is still the folly of those, who deny the divine 
omnipotence of the BLESSED JESUS, and thus rob Him of His divinity; when yet they ought rather 
to conclude, in agreement with the tenor of what JESUS afterwards declares, that in His divine 
person the kingdom of GOD is. come unto man; for thus He expresses Himself, If I cast out devils
by the Spirit of GOD, then the kingdom of God is come to you.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above miracle?

A. I learn, in the first place, again to adore the divine mercy and omnipotence of that INCARNATE 
GOD, who was manifested to destroy the works of the devil, whether worked on the bodies or in 
the minds of men, and whether they appear in a simple or in a compound shape. In the next 
place, I learn to distinguish in myself the two mental defects of want of eyes, and want of speech,
or of spiritual blindness, and spiritual dumbness, and to see that the latter is always a necessary 
consequence of the former, Lastly, from the different effects produced on different minds by the 
above miracle, whilst it led some, under the impulse of a sacred awe, to confess the BLESSED 
JESUS to be the true Messiah, and led others to pervert and blaspheme the ETERNAL TRUTH, I am 
taught the great importance of attending well to the temper and disposition of my own mind, that 

- 49-

I may always be in a state willingly and thankfully to confess the operation of the DIVINE 
OMNIPOTENCE, and thus to escape the dreadful crime of perverting and profaning divine purposes
and intentions. I am resolved therefore from now on, under every state of spiritual blindness and
dumbness, to apply to my SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST for his omnipotent aid. I am resolved further to
watch well over all the affections and thoughts of my own heart, so that I may always entertain 
just and worthy sentiments respecting divine agency, and never, like the Pharisees of old, impute 
the operation of the SPIRIT of GOD to any inferior power, and especially to that infernal one, the 
power of Beelzebub. So may I humbly hope to experience the healing virtue of my GOD and 
SAVIOUR, in the cure of all my spiritual blindness and dumbness, and being enabled both to see 
and to speak, may rejoice in the discovery of the glory of His DIVINITY, and in telling forth his 
praises from generation to generation. AMEN.

- 50-

Miracle of the Five Loaves and Two Fishes

Matt 14:14-22.

And JESUS went forth, and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion towards 
them, and Pie healed their sick. And when it was evening, His disciples came to Him, saying, 
This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the multitude away, that they may go into 
the villages, and buy themselves victuals, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by JESUS going forth, and seeing a great multitude?

A. According to the letter of the history, by JESUS going forth, and seeing a great multitude, is to 
be understood His going forth as to His personal or bodily presence, and His taking a view of the
people who followed Him; but according to the internal or spiritual sense of the history, by JESUS
going forth, is to be understood the divine influx of His divine love into His church, thus into the 
truths and knowledges in which His church was principled; and by seeing a great multitude, is to 
be further understood the influx of His divine wisdom into those truths and knowledges, to note 
their several characters and qualities. It therefore follows, that He was moved with compassion 
towards them, and healed their sick; because to be moved with compassion is an effect of His 
divine love towards His church or people; and to heal their sick is an effect of His divine 
wisdom, in removing the false principles and persuasions, which at that time prevailed amongst 
them.

Q. And what do you further understand by the words which follow, where it is written, that when
it was evening, His disciples Game to Him, saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now 
past; send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves victuals?

A. According to the sense of the letter, the meaning of the above words is so plain, as to require 
no explanation; but according to the spiritual sense, it may be necessary to explain them.  By the 
evening then here spoken of, is to be understood the last state of the Jewish church, or a state 
when there was no longer any faith or love prevailing amongst that people; and by the disciples 
coming to JESUS, saying, This is a desert place, the time is now past, is to be further understood 
an acknowledgement of that state of the church by those who were principled in the truths of the 
new or Christian church; for by the disciples are signified those who received the doctrines of 
this latter church; and by their saying, This is a desert place, the time is now past, is further 
denoted a perception that there was no longer any desire of heavenly good, or any understanding 
of heavenly truth remaining; the one being signified by a desert place, and the other by the time 
is now past. By their adding further, Send the multitudes away, that they may go into the villages,
and buy themselves victuals, is further to be understood ignorance on the part of the disciples, 
who were not as yet fully instructed as to the divine origin of spiritual food, and who therefore 
supposed that the multitudes might procure it for themselves, in a state of separation from the 
BLESSED JESUS ; for by sending the multitudes away, is manifestly denoted such a state of 

- 51-

separation; and by their going to the villages to buy themselves victuals, is further to be 
understood the procuring to themselves spiritual food in that state.

Q. But it is added, that JESUS said to them, They need not depart; give you them to eat — what do
you conceive to be the force and meaning of these words?

A. According to the literal sense of the history, these words contain an intimation on the part of 
the BLESSED JESUS, that His disciples should provide bodily food forthe multitude; but according 
to the spiritual sense, they have relation to spiritual food, which is instruction from the holy 
Word in truth and wisdom, and thus contain an intimation, that that food should be provided by 
those, who were already instructed in truth and wisdom. For by JESUS saying, according to the 
spiritual sense, is to be understood a divine dictate; and by saying to them, or to His disciples, is 
further to be understood a dictate to those of His church, who were already instructed in the 
goods and truths of His MOST HOLY WORD; and by His adding, they need not depart, is further to 
be understood the necessity of abiding in the divine presence, in order to receive instruction; and 
by adding further, give you them to eat, is implied that spiritual food, or spiritual instruction, was 
to be communicated by the intelligent and wise to those who were in want of intelligence and 
wisdom.

Q. And how do you understand the words which follow, where it is written, They say to Him, We 
have here but five loaves and two fishes?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words imply the impossibility of supplying the 
bodily wants of the multitude out of so small a store of bodily food; but according to the spiritual
sense, in which they relate to the spiritual food of instruction, by saying to Him (JESUS), is to be 
understood perception of the little good and little truth which then prevailed in the natural man; 
for by the disciples saying to JESUS, is to be understood perception; and by saying, We have here 
but five loaves and two fishes, is denoted the very small portion of good and of truth, which then 
prevailed in the natural man or mind; loaves having respect to the principle of good, and fishes to
the principle of truth.

Q. But it is added, that He said, Bring them here to me — how do you understand these words?

A. According to the letter of the history, these words mean, that the literal loaves and fishes 
should be brought to JESUS; but according to the spirit of the history they imply, that what is 
signified by the loaves and fishes, namely. the goods and truths of the natural man, should be 
brought to Him; in other words, should be submitted to His divine guidance, government, and 
blessing. Bring them to me is therefore a divine injunction, ever proceeding from the BLESSED 
JESUS, and ever enforcing its weighty obligations on all his children; because it is of the first 
importance in the great business of regeneration and consequent salvation, that all His children 
should refer to Him, as the DIVINE GIVER, every good and every truth of the natural mind or man,
that so it may not only receive perpetual increase from his divine benediction, but may also 
finally be brought to the blessedness of an eternal con, junction with Him.

- 52-

Q. And what do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written, that He 
commanded the multitude to sit dozen on the grass, and took the five loaves and two fishes, and 
looking up to heaven, He blessed, and break, and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the 
disciples to the multitude?

A. By the multitude, according to the spiritual idea, is to be understood the church, desirous, to 
be spiritually fed, or to receive instruction; and by JESUS commanding the multitude to sit down 
on the grass, is to be further understood arrangement according to divine order of the lower 
principles of the church; for by JESUS commanding is signified divine order; and by sitting down 
on the grass, is signified arrangement according to that order in the lower principles of the 
church, as previously necessary to receive instruction, grass denoting those lower principles. It is
accordingly written in another place, where this miracle is recorded, that there was much grass 
in the place, (John 6:10), which is a circumstance too trivial to be mentioned in the Word of the 
MOST HIGH GOD, unless it had involved a spiritual sense and meaning; and what this spiritual 
sense and meaning is, is manifest in another passage, where the BLESSED JESUS says, speaking of
the growth of spiritual seed in the church, The earth brings forth fruit of herself, first the blade 
(or grass), then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear, (Mark 4:28), where the blade (or grass)
evidently denotes the first reception of truth in the memory, or what may be called scientific 
truth, which is here the grass on which the multitude were commanded to sit down, since without
truth first received in the memory, and rightly arranged there, no spiritual instruction can be 
received; spiritual instruction, in all cases, having relation to the elevation of scientific truth to its
DIVINE SOURCE, and to its conjunction with that source.

Q. And what do you understand by JESUS taking the five loaves and the two fishes?

A. By the five loaves and two fishes, it has been already seen, are to be understood the goods and
truths of the natural man or mind, about to be initiated into DIVINE TRUTH, and thus to be 
nourished; and by JESUS therefore taking these loaves and fishes, is to be understood first 
initiation, when these goods and truths are acknowledged by the understanding to be His and 
from Him; it is accordingly written in the institution of the sacrament of the holy supper, that 
JESUS first took bread, and then blessed, and break it; and that when he gave it to His disciples, 
He said, " Take, eat; this is my body," (Matthew 26:26), denoting that before He can bless the 
bread, and before His children can eat it, it must first be acknowledged in the understanding to 
be His, and from Him.

Q. And what do you conceive to be meant by JESUS looking up to heaven?

A. To look up to heaven, according to the sense of the letter, is to direct the eyes of the body 
upwards towards heaven; but according to the spiritual sense or meaning of the expression, it has
reference to the eyes of the mind turned inward into itself, for heaven, we know, is within man, 
as it is written, The kingdom of GOD is within you, (Luke 17:21). When this expression, however, 
is applied to the BLESSED JESUS, it denotes His looking to the divine principle within Himself, 
since, as the kingdom of GOD is in every man, so the Divine Being or Principle was in the 
BLESSED JESUS as His inmost life or soul. Moreover, heaven is heaven by virtue of its reception 

- 53-

of the divine love and wisdom in close conjunction, and therefore whether we speak of heaven, 
or of the conjunction of the divine love and wisdom, it is the same thing. Thus, by looking up to 
heaven, when applied to the BLESSED JESUS, is represented an internal act of His mind, or of His 
humanity, elevating itself to a fuller view of, and closer union with the divinity which dwelt in it.

Q. And what do you understand by His blessing and breaking the loaves?

A. By blessing the loaves, is spiritually to be understood the initiation of natural goods into the 
divine good, and their conjunction with that good, for every thing is called blessed, and is 
blessed, in proportion as it is so conjoined; and by breaking ike loaves, is again to be understood 
the conjunction of the natural goods with divine spiritual truth, by virtue whereof natural goods 
are viewed and distinguished into the particular goods of which they are compounded, and are 
thus rendered capable of a fuller incorporation into the life and love. For such is the nature of all 
good, that whilst it is seen in the general only, and not in its particulars, it cannot be so fully 
admitted into the mind, in like manner as a loaf of bread cannot be admitted into the bodily life 
for nourishment and support, unless it be first broken into pieces, and afterwards masticated in 
the mouth of the eater. Hence arises the necessity, in spiritual eating, to conjoin good with truth, 
or love in the will with wisdom in the understanding, since it is by truth and wisdom alone that 
any good, or any love, can be properly discriminated and particularized, so as to render it 
admissible into the spiritual life of man. This, therefore, was the hidden reason why mention is 
here made of breaking the loaves, and also why the same act is recorded in other passages of the 
WORD, as at the institution of the holy supper, (Matt 26:26. Mark 14:22.  Luke 22:19). and 
particularly at the village of Emmaus, where It is written that JESUS was known to the disciples 
by breaking of bread. (Luke 24:35). For the same reason, the perfume for the use of the Jewish 
tabernacle, was required to be beaten small or bruised, (Exod. 30:36), bruising having the same 
signification in regard to perfume, that breaking has in regard to bread. For a similar reason too, 
the powers and principles of evil are said to be beaten small as the dust before the wind, (Psalm. 
18:42), because as good cannot be admitted into the life of man, until it be minutely viewed as to 
its nature and quality, in like manner evil cannot be expelled from the life of man, until its nature 
and quality are also distinctly seen, and this by the light of the ETERNAL TRUTH. In the great 
work, therefore, of man's purification from evil, it is not sufficient for him to confess, in general 
terms, that he is a sinner, or full of evil, but he ought to enter upon a particular exploration of the 
distinct marks and characters of evil in himself; in other words, he ought to break and bruise it, 
otherwise it will remain for ever incorporated in his life's love.

Q. And what instruction do you learn from the words which follow, where it is written, that 
JESUS gave the loaves to His disciples, and His disciples to the multitude?

A. I am instructed by these words, that the BLESSED Jesus does not teach truth, or give spiritual 
food, immediately, but mediately, or by and through His MOST HOLY WORD. For by the disciples 
are here meant those, who have already admitted into their minds the goods and truths of that 
WORD; thus by the disciples are here represented the goods and truths themselves which they 
have received; whereas, by the multitude are represented those, who are desirous of receiving 
instruction and the spiritual nourishment which it yields. When therefore it is said, that JESUS 

- 54-

gave the loaves to His disciples, and the disciples to the multitude, it was intended to teach the 
edifying lesson, that the ALMIGHTY always employs instruments to effect His saving purposes of 
instruction and consequent regeneration; and that the instruments which He employs are the 
goods and truths of His MOST HOLY WORD, and those who teach them; thus that the order still is, 
for the edification of His church, that He shall give the loaves to His disciples, and the disciples 
to the multitude; in other words, that there shall always be mediating instruments, or mediating 
ministers, between Him and His people.

Q. But it follows, that they did all eat, and were filled; and they took up of the fragments that 
remained, twelve baskets-full — what do you understand by these words?

A. By all eating, is to be understood that all incorporated into their minds and lives the good, 
which was thus conjoined with the divine good and truth; for by eating, is spiritually signified 
such incorporation, inasmuch as spiritual eating is nothing else but the reception of the good of 
heavenly love from JESUS CHRIST; and this good is received, when natural good, or the good into
which man is born, submits itself, and acknowledges its divine parent and nourisher. By being 
filled, is further signified a full contentment and satisfaction of mind experienced in the reception
of the good here spoken of, by virtue of which it is acknowledged, to be enough and all-
sufficient to gratify every desire, and supply every want. For such is the nature of the human 
mind, created for an eternal conjunction of life and love with its HEAVENLY FATHER, that nothing 
but an infinite good, which is the divine love, can fill and satisfy it; and therefore all finite goods,
such as worldly wealth, honours, reputation, pleasure, and the like, however abundant, and 
however apparently gratifying they may seem, still leave the soul in a state of all that emptiness, 
of which it is written, He has sent the rich empty away. Nevertheless, these latter and lesser 
goods have their important uses, and therefore are not to be rejected, whenever they submit 
themselves to be filled with a higher and an eternal good.

Q. And what do you further understand by taking up of the fragments that remained, twelve 
baskets-full?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by these words is to be understood the miraculous 
increase of natural food in consequence of the divine presence and blessing; but according to the 
spiritual idea, the words have relation to spiritual eating, which is instruction in the WORD of 
GOD, and therefore denote the immense increase of spiritual food, when it also receives the 
divine blessing, and is thus conjoined with its divine source. For in regard to spiritual 
nourishment, the case is this, that the more a man eats, the more he is made sensible of the 
infinite stores of divine nourishment provided for him; and thus, contrary to what is true of 
natural eating, his food grows more abundant, the more he receives. This super-abundance is 
therefore here represented by the twelve baskets-full of fragments, which are said to be taken up, 
in other words, to be elevated to conjunction with the DIVINE GIVER of all food, by the humble 
and grateful acknowledgment that they are from Him, and His,

Q. And what instruction do you learn from the concluding words, where it is written, And they 
that had eaten were about five thousand mm, besides women and children?

- 55-

A. By these words are denoted those of the LORD'S new church here on earth, who received the 
truths and goods of His MOST HOLY WORD; men, denoting those who were more principled in 
truths; women, those who were more in the affection of truth; and children, denoting those who 
were more principled in innocence. Thus the words taken together have reference to the heavenly
marriage of good and of truth, or of love and of wisdom, which constitutes the church. And thus, 
too, we are further instructed in the important distinction between what are here called men, 
women, and children; and in the still more important representation of each class of beings, as 
having reference to the distinct spiritual and celestial principles, which constitute the LORD'S 
church and kingdom.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn, in the first place, to adore the miraculous power of that INCARNATE GOD, who, when it 
pleases Him, can convert spiritual food into natural, as in the case of the manna in the 
wilderness, and of the loaves and fishes in the present instance. In the next place I learn, from the
spiritual sense of the above miracle, many interesting and edifying particulars respecting spiritual
food, and its reception in the human mind, being taught: 

1.

that all spiritual food is of two kinds, namely. good and truth, or love and wisdom, the 
one intended for the nourishment of the human will, and the other for the nourishment of 
the human understanding; the one therefore represented by the loaves, and the other by 
the fishes. 

2. That before spiritual food can be fully received, there must be a right arrangement in the 
lower principles of the human mind, signified by the LORD commanding the multitude to 
sit down on the grass. 

3. That before spiritual food can be fully received and incorporated into the life, the divine 
presence and benediction must be supplicated, and at the same time the understanding 
must be opened to the light of truth, to enable it to explore and distinguish well the 
principles of spiritual nourishment, signified by JESUS taking the five loaves and the two 
fishes, and looking up to heaven, and blessing and breaking the loaves, 

4. That spiritual food, which is instruction in the WORD of GOD, is not given immediately by 
JESUS CHRIST, but mediately, that is to say, by the goods and truths of that WORD, through
the instrumentality of those who teach them, signified by JESUS giving the loaves to the 
disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. 

5. That the food derived from the WORD of GOD, is the only food which can fully satisfy an 

immortal spirit, signified by all eating and being filled. 

6. That in all spiritual eating, there is an immense increase of spiritual food, which increase 
ought to be devoutly acknowledged to be the result of the divine bounty, signified by 
taking up the fragments that remained, twelve baskets-full. 

7. That there are three distinct classes of men, who constitute the LORD'S church and 

kingdom, and who are therefore carefully to be distinguished from each other, namely, 
those who receive more of truth in their understandings, those who receive more of the 
affection of truth in their wills, and those who are in innocence, signified by the five 
thousand men, besides women and children. 

- 56-

I am resolved, therefore, in reading the WORD of GOD, or in receiving spiritual food in any other 
manner, to attend well to every particular of divine instruction recorded in the history of this 
miracle; and then may I humbly hope to be fed by my GOD and SAVIOUR, as the multitudes of old 
were, and thus to find angels' food in every state of life, even the most desolate and desert. And 
then, too, may I hope further, like the infant church of old, to be filled, in other words, to find a 
full satisfaction and contentment derived from my food; and also to experience a blessed increase
of spiritual nourishment, leading me to a more devout acknowledgement of the DIVINE GIVER, 
both of natural and spiritual food, and thus to join in the angelic song, Worthy is the LAMB that 
was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and 
blessing, (Rev. 5:12). AMEN.

- 57-

Jesus Walking on the Sea

Matthew 14:22-34

And straightway JESUS constrained His disciples to get into a ship, and to go before Him to the 
other side, while He sent the multitudes away, etc.

Q. WHAT do you understand here by JESUS constraining His disciples to get into a ship, and to 
go before Him to the other side?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by these words is meant what is literally expressed; but 
according to the spiritual sense, they imply a requirement of the divine order, that the members 
of the church should acquire the knowledges of good and of truth, and should thus change their 
state in regard to spiritual life; for by the disciples, are here meant the members of the church; 
and by JESUS constraining them, is meant the requirement of divine order; and by getting into a 
ship, is spiritually to be understood the acquirement of the knowledges of good and truth, such 
knowledges being signified and represented by a ship, agreeable to what was shown in the 
explanation of a former miracle, (Matthew 8:23-28); and by going before him to the other side, is
to be understood a change of spiritual state, or a passage from knowledge to the life of 
knowledge.

Q. And what do you understand by the words which immediately follow, where it is written, 
while He sent the multitudes away?

A. In the original Greek, the term here rendered sent away, is derived from the verb apoluo, 
which more properly signifies to loosen or to set at liberty; and which therefore, when 
interpreted according to its spiritual signification, denotes that the BLESSED JESUS, after feeding 
the multitudes with the goods and truths of His HOLY WORD, left them at liberty to act and live in 
agreement, or otherwise, with the heavenly instruction they had received: And that the term was 
intended to suggest such a spiritual idea, is further confirmed by this circumstance, that the 
Evangelist Saint Mark, in recording this same miracle (Mark 6:45, 46), applies two distinct 
expressions in the original Greek, which are yet considered as one and the same in the English 
translation. For in the original Greek, the term apoluo is applied to express the sending away the 
people, at verse 45, whereas in the next verse 46, the term apotasso is applied, which evidently 
means, not sending away the people, as it is rendered by the English translation, but arranging 
them, or putting them in their proper places; thus, according to the spiritual sense, denoting the 
orderly arrangement of truths, when each takes its proper place in the regenerate mind. This 
therefore appears to be the reason why this circumstance respecting the multitude is recorded, 
otherwise it is difficult to conceive, if nothing more was meant than sending away the multitudes,
how an event so seemingly insignificant should find a place in the divine history.

- 58-

Q. But it is further written, that when He had sent the multitudes away, He went up into a 
mountain to pray; and when the evening was come, He was there alone — what do you here 
understand by the BLESSED JESUS going up into a mountain to pray?

A. These words, like all other parts of the divine history, have both a literal and spiritual 
signification; and according to the former, they literally mean that JESUS went up into a mountain
to pray, etc. but according to the latter, their meaning is, that the BLESSED JESUS opened His 
HUMANITY to a fuller and closer communication with the DIVINITY in Himself; for by a mountain
is figured and represented the divine love; agreeable to which idea mention is made in the HOLY 
WORD of the mountain of the LORD of HOSTS, denoting the divine love of JEHOVAH, or the 
ETERNAL FATHER; and it is called also the mountain of the LORD'S HOUSE, which, according to the
language of prophecy, was to be established at the top of the mountains, (Isa. 2:2), denoting the 
exaltation of the divine love over every inferior love, which was to take place under the gospel 
dispensation. By praying then on this mountain, is to be understood an opening of the interiors of
the mind of the BLESSED JESUS to the reception of the divine love, or what is the same thing, of 
JEHOVAH in Himself; for prayer properly understood is nothing else but an opening of the 
interiors; in the case of man, an opening to what is spiritual and celestial; but in the case of the 
LORD, to what is DIVINE, or to the ETERNAL FATHER.

Q. And what do you further understand by the words which follow, that when the evening was 
come He was there alone?

A. By the evening coming, is to be understood the last state of the church, when there was no 
longer any good or any truth remaining in it; and by JESUS being alone at this time, was intended 
to be expressed His union with His FATHER, or the union of the HUMANITY with the DIVINITY 
from which it came forth, agreeable to His own declaration in another place, where He says, 
Behold, the hour comes, yea, is now come, that you shall be scattered every one to his own, and 
shall leave me alone, and yet I am not alone, because the FATHER is with me. (John 16:32).

Q. But it is written that the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves; for the wind 
was contrary—what do you understand by these words?

A. By the ship here spoken of, it has already been shown, are to be understood the knowledges of
what is good and true derived from the WORD of GOD; and by the sea is here spiritually signified 
the scientific principle of the natural man, not yet obedient to those knowledges. By the ship 
therefore being in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, is to be further understood the 
agitation and disturbance excited in the natural man by the knowledges of goodness and truth 
imparted to the spiritual man, by reason of the contrariety between those knowledges and the 
affections prevailing in the natural mind. By the wind being contrary, is therefore further 
signified this opposition between heavenly knowledge and natural love; for by wind, according 
to the spiritual idea, is to be understood spiritual influence, in the present case infernal influence, 
because it is said to be contrary to the purposes of those who were principled in heavenly 
knowledges.

- 59-

Q. And what do you conceive to be implied in what next follows, where it is said that in the 
fourth watch of the night, JESUS went to them walking on the sea?

A. By the fourth watch of the night is meant the time immediately preceding morning, and by 
morning is signified, according to the spiritual idea, the time of the LORD'S Advent, or of a new 
dispensation of heavenly truth for the restoration of the church. It is therefore said, that at this 
time JESUS went unto them, that is to say, went to His disciples, denoting His DIVINE presence 
and influence in His new church; and He is further described as walking on the sea, to denote His
absolute rule over, and control of, all the disturbances of the natural man or mind.

Q. But it is said, that when the disciples saw him walking on the seat they were troubled, saying, 
It is a spirit: and they cried out for fear— how do you understand these words?

A. According to the sense of the letter, they are descriptive of the alarm of the disciples, at seeing
their Divine Master walking on the sea; but according to the spiritual sense of the history, they 
represent the perturbation of mind, which hath place with all those, who are principled in the 
knowledges of what is good and true, but are not yet in the life of those knowledges, which is the
life of love and charity. For when persons of this description begin to be made sensible in their 
own minds of the nearness of the Divine Presence, and of its omnipotence in controlling the 
boisterous passions and unruly affections of the natural man, they are immediately struck with a 
secret awe and terror, at observing the GOD of HEAVEN and the powers of the world to come, so 
near at hand, whom they had been accustomed to view as at so great a distance. Under these 
circumstances therefore, like the disciples in the ship, they are troubled, and say, It is a spirit; 
and they cry out for fear, not aware that what appears to them as a mere phantom, which has no 
purpose but to create alarm, is in deed and truth the dawning of eternal life, the manifestation of 
the kingdom and glory of the INCARNATE GOD, thus the rising of the Sun of Righteousness with 
healing in His wings, to be an everlasting Guide, Comforter, Protector, and Saviour.

Q. What then do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written, Straightway 
JESUS spoke to them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I, be not afraid?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words describe the consolation communicated to the
troubled disciples by the audible voice of their Divine Master, assuring them that their fears were
groundless, for that it was He Himself; but according to the spiritual sense of the history, as it 
applies to the regeneration of man, the words are expressive of a divine influx into the minds of 
those who are principled in the knowledges of what is good and true, but not yet in the life of 
those knowledges, instructing them that their alarms about the nearness of the Divine Presence 
and omnipotence are unfounded. By the expression therefore, Be of good cheer, is to be 
understood an influx of divine confidence; and by the additional expression, It is I, or, as it is 
written in the original, I AM, is to be understood a manifestation of the SOLE and SUPREME 
DIVINITY of the BLESSED JESUS, and of his divine power over all the turbulence of human 
passions; and lastly, by the concluding words, Be not afraid, is to be understood a 
communication of divine strength, dispelling all the fears and disquietudes, to which the natural 

- 60-

mind is ever subject, when separated from the spiritual, and thus from the life of heavenly love 
and charity.

Q. But it is written afterwards, that Peter answered Him and said, Lord, if it be You, bid me come
to You on the water — what instruction do you learn from these words?

A. By Peter, according to the spiritual idea, is here to be understood the faith of the church, and 
especially that faith which acknowledges the divinity of the GREAT SAVIOUR, agreeable to what 
was shown in treating of the miracle of Peter's wife's mother being cured of her fever, (Matthew 
viii. 14, 15). By Peter therefore answering, and saying, Lord, if it be You, bid me come to You on 
the water, is to be further understood a divine impulse imparted to that faith by which it was led 
to acknowledge, in the first place the divinity of the GREAT SAVIOUR, as expressed by the 
significant appellation, LORD; and in the next place was prompted to seek a closer conjunction 
with the INCARNATE GOD, in the exercise of that omnipotence, by which He controlled all the 
lower principles of the natural mind, together with the infernal powers with which they were 
connected, signified by the words. If it be You, bid me come to you on the water.

Q. And what do you understand by the words which immediately follow, where it is written, And
He said, Come; and when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to 
JESUS; but when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, 
LORD, save me?

A. By the BLESSED JESUS saying, Come, is to be understood the invitation of the divine love and 
mercy, not only to Peter, but likewise to all believers, to enter into the closest state of conjunction
with the divine omnipotence, especially in its control over the lower principles of the natural 
man. And by Peter coming down out of the ship, and walking on the water, to go to JESUS, is to 
be understood compliance with that invitation; and by his further being afraid, and beginning to 
sink, and crying, LORD, save me, when he saw the wind boisterous, is to be understood his weak 
and wavering faith, together with the weak and wavering faith of all those, who are principled in 
the knowledge of holy things, but are not yet advanced far in the life of that knowledge, and who
consequently feel alarmed when they hear and feel the boisterous wind of strong temptation.

Q. But it immediately follows, that JESUS stretched forth His hand, and caught him, and said 
unto him, O you of little faith, wherefore did you doubt? And when they were come into the ship, 
the wind ceased — what instruction do you learn from these words?

A. I learn first, that the BLESSED JESUS is ever attentive to the prayer of His children, and 
immediately supplies all their wants. I learn in the second place, that the supply of the wants of 
His children is always effected by an exertion of His omnipotence, represented and signified by 
stretching out His hand. In the third place I am instructed, that omnipotence cannot help or save 
man, unless it operate on the principles of his life, represented and signified by He caught him, 
or, as it might be better expressed, laid hold of him. I further learn, that the BLESSED JESUS effects
His saving and salutary purposes, in many cases, by wholesome reproof, which leads to serious 
self-examination about the cause of fear and unbelief, and is signified by JESUS saying to Peter, 

- 61-

O you of little faith, wherefore did you doubt? And lastly I am instructed, that when the BLESSED 
JESUS, together with a right faith, are admitted into the knowledges of what is good and true, 
immediately tranquillity is restored, the wind of infernal influence ceases to blow, and there is a 
great calm, signified by the concluding words, that when they were come into the ship, the wind 
ceased.

Q. And what do you learn from the concluding words in the history of this miracle, where it is 
written, that they who were in the ship came and worshiped Him, saying, Of a truth You are the 
Son of God?

A. According to their plain and obvious sense, these words teach that the divinity of JESUS 
CHRIST was again acknowledged by His followers, in consequence of His walking on the sea, 
and manifesting thus His power of control over the elements of nature; for it is said, that they 
came and worshiped Him, saying, Of a truth You are the Son of God. But according to the more 
remote or spiritual idea, I learn from the above words, that the DIVINITY and DIVINE HUMANITY of
the GREAT SAVIOUR were on this occasion acknowledged, and this by reason of the control which 
He exercised over the passions, the disturbances, the alarms, and the unbelief of the natural man 
or mind. For by JESUS walking on the sea, and supporting the wavering faith of Peter, this control
is figured and represented, whilst by the worship which was paid, and by the confession, Of a 
truth You are the Son of God, is manifestly described the acknowledgement, not only of His 
DIVINITY, but also of His DIVINE HUMANITY, according to which latter signification, He was 
emphatically called THE SON OF GOD. It is however well to be considered, that this 
acknowledgment was made by those who were in the ship, to instruct us in the necessity of 
acquiring knowledges of what is good and true from THE WORD OF GOD, before such 
acknowledgement can be made; for by a ship, as was shown above, are signified such 
knowledges.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn in the first place, from the letter of the history, an additional proof of the DIVINITY of 
JESUS CHRIST, confirmed by His walking on the sea, and calming its disturbed waters. I learn 
further, from the spiritual sense of the history, the great necessity of acquiring the knowledges of 
what is good and true from the WORD of GOD, which necessity is made known by JESUS 
constraining His disciples to go into a ship. I learn again the usual effect of those knowledges on 
the impure principles of the natural mind, in exciting disturbance, trial and temptation, ex-
pressed in the history by the ship being tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. But I learn 
further, to my great consolation, that the BLESSED JESUS is ever present in the midst of such 
disturbance, compelling it to make more manifest His FATHERLY MERCY and DIVINE 
OMNIPOTENCE. From the example also of the apostle Peter, who, when he saw the wind 
boisterous, was afraid, I am instructed what the weakness of human faith is, unless supported by 
and in conjunction with a divine faith; but from the same example also I learn, that all things are 
possible to him that believes, and that if human faith connect itself with omnipotence, it also can 
walk on the water, and go to JESUS . Again, I learn that the GREAT REDEEMER is ever stretching 
forth the hand of His Divine Omnipotence to succour His children in all their dangers, and to 

- 62-

relieve them in all their fears, whilst at the same time He leads them to a diligent exploration of 
the causes of their alarms, by the friendly expostulation, O you of little faith, wherefore did you 
doubt? Lastly, I observe in the ship, which contained the BLESSED SAVIOUR and His disciples, a 
figure of the true church, and of every individual of the church, tossed on the boisterous waves of
trial and temptation, yet riding in perfect safety and security, under the rule and government of 
Him, who sits above the water-floods, and remains a King for ever be the earth never so unquiet.
I am resolved therefore, through the aid of His divine favour and strength, so to apply myself to 
the study of the ETERNAL TRUTH, that I may find a place in that figurative ship, and may thus be 
conveyed, in communion with the BLESSED JESUS and His disciples, through all the storms and 
tempests of this lower world, to the haven of eternal rest in that happy world, where there is no 
more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain. AMEN.

The Sick Healed in the Land Of Gennesareth

Matthew 14:34-the end.

And when they were gone over, they came into the land of Gennesareth. And when the men of 
that place had knowledge of Him, they sent out into all that country round about, and brought to 
Him all that were diseased, etc.

Q. WHAT do you understand here by their going over, and coming into the land of Gennesareth?

A. According to the letter of the history, these words relate only to the passage of the BLESSED 
JESUS and His disciples across the lake, and their arrival at the land on the other side; but 
according to the spiritual sense, the words have respect to a change of state in the church, in 
consequence of the knowledges of good and truth which had been imbibed, and which are 
represented by the ship in which they had sailed; For there is no circumstance in the life of the 
BLESSED JESUS, as it is recorded in the gospel, howsoever trivial it may appear, but what involves
in it some spiritual and edifying instruction relative to Himself and to the new church which He 
came to establish. Besides, all the places in the land of Canaan are significative and 
representative, like the land of Canaan itself, which, it is well known, is significative and 
representative of the heavenly Canaan, or of the kingdom of heaven. This observation is true of 
the Land of Gennesareth here mentioned, which therefore is to be understood as having a 
spiritual signification and representation, like all other places recorded in the gospel history. 
What its signification and representation is, may be known in some degree from the name itself, 
which properly signifies the garden of the prince; and since the term garden, wheresoever it 
occurs in the sacred history, is always applied to denote spiritual intelligence, and especially the 
intelligence derived from the WORD of GOD, therefore by JESUS and His disciples coming into the
land of Gennesareth is to be understood the church's advancement to a state of intelligence, 
effected by the knowledges of truth which had been previously admitted.

- 63-

Q. But it is written, that when the men of that place had knowledge of Him, they sent out into all 
that country round about, and brought to Him all that were diseased — what do you conceive to 
be the meaning of these words?

A. According to the letter of the history, the above words relate to the men of Gennesareth 
informing all the country round about of the arrival of the BLESSED JESUS, and to their bringing 
to Him all that were afflicted with bodily diseases, that they might be healed. But according to 
the spiritual sense of the history, the words have reference to those in the church who are 
principled in intelligence, and who from the light of intelligence have knowledge of the Divine 
Omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, and are therefore eager to bring every spiritual infirmity 
and disorder under the operation of that omnipotence, that so it may be removed, and the church 
thus restored to the blessed order and image of heaven and its GOD. For such is the nature of all 
true intelligence, that it is always employed in looking, by virtue of the light of heaven which it 
receives, first at the divine perfections, as made manifest in the BLESSED JESUS ; and secondly at 
human imperfections, weaknesses, errors, and disorders, to the intent that as far as possible the 
latter may be operated upon by the former, and thus may make more manifest the divine mercy 
and omnipotence.

Q. And what do you learn from the words which follow, where it is written, And besought Him 
that they might only touch the hem of His garment, and as many as touched were made perfectly 
whole?

A. By the garment of the BLESSED JESUS, as was shown in treating of the miracle concerning the 
bloody issue, (Matthew 9:20-23), is signified and represented the DIVINE TRUTH of His HOLY 
WORD; this being as a garment containing and investing the DIVINE GOOD of His love. By the 
hem of His garment is therefore to be understood the lowest or outermost principle of that truth, 
which principle is the letter or literal sense of the WORD; and to touch this hem of course means 
to have communication with the BLESSED JESUS by means of that literal sense. When therefore it 
is said of the men of Gennesareth, that they besought Him that they might only touch the hem of 
His garment, it is to denote the strong desire of those in the church who are intelligent, that every
infirmity, error, and disorder of human nature may be submitted to the rule and guidance of the 
ETERNAL TRUTH, even in its lowest or outermost principles, as is the case when the letter of the 
HOLY WORD is seen and considered according to its proper sanctity, as being the sacred receptacle
and basis of the treasures of the divine wisdom and love stored up within it. It is therefore added,
that as many as touched were made perfectly whole, to denote, that if the letter of the HOLY WORD
be held in proper reverence, by regarding it as the consecrated tabernacle of all that is divine, 
thus as the residence and abode of the ETERNAL and the INFINITE, of all His attributes, and of all 
His perfections, it then never fails to communicate a healing virtue, of efficacy sufficient for the 
removal of every infirmity and disorder of the human mind, so that they, who before were 
spiritually blind, deaf, diseased and infirm, are by degrees restored to the perfection of spiritual 
sight, hearing, health, and virtue.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this history?

- 64-

A. I learn from this history, that the church, in advancing towards perfection of life, which is the 
conjunction of love and wisdom, and thus conjunction with the LORD, has to pass through several
states, which may be called states of its regeneration, and that one of these states is a state of 
spiritual intelligence, figured by the land of Gennesareih, and resulting from the knowledges of 
what is good and true, derived from the WORD of GOD. I learn further, that this state of 
intelligence conducts to the knowledge of the INCARNATE GOD, signified by the men of 
Gennesareth having knowledge of JESUS, and that they who are in that knowledge from a 
perception of the divine perfections, are ever desirous to submit all human infirmities and 
disorders to the control of the divine mercy and omnipotence. Lastly, I learn that in this state of 
spiritual intelligence, a discovery is made of the divine virtue and presence ever operative in the 
letter of the HOLY WORD, and that by means of that operation, the all of evil and of error is 
gradually removed in the minds of the penitent and the faithful, who are willing to admit its 
healing influence. I am resolved therefore now on, to apply myself diligently and devoutly to the 
study of the pages of the ETERNAL TRUTH, that so, through the divine mercy, I may attain to a 
state of spiritual intelligence, and thus be led to a discovery, not only of the perfections of the 
INCARNATE GOD, but also of the interior evils and disorders of my own mind and life, which, 
without the light of such intelligence, must for ever remain hid, unacknowledged, and 
consequently unremoved. And I am further resolved to believe, like the men of Gennesareth, that 
a divine and holy virtue is ever present from the GREAT and HOLY GOD in the letter of His 
revealed word; and that consequently, if by a right faith and pure life I maintain communication 
with that divine virtue, by submitting all my natural evils and errors to its purifying and 
controlling influence, I may then indulge the consolatory hope that sooner or later every 
disorderly affection, appetite, thought, word or work, will give place to the blessed order, purity 
and peace of the divine love and wisdom in my own happy bosom. AMEN.

- 65-

The Devil Cast Out From the Daughter of the Woman of 

Canaan

Matthew 15:21-29

Then JESUS went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. And, behold, a woman 
of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried to Him, saying, Have mercy, on me, O LORD, 
you Son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by JESUS departing into the coasts of Tyre and Zidon?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by JESUS departing into the coasts of Tyre and Si-don is to
be understood, that as to His body, or bodily presence, He really entered into those coasts. But 
whereas all that the BLESSED JESUS did; all His journeyings, His sojournings, and His resting-
places were significative and representative of spiritual and celestial things relating to His church
and kingdom; and as all places in the land of Canaan, and bordering upon that land, were in like 
manner significative and representative; therefore by JESUS departing into the coasts of Tyre and 
Sidon, is to be understood a state into which He entered as to His humanity, in its progress 
towards union with His divinity, corresponding to the spiritual signification of Tyre and Zidon.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the spiritual signification of those two places?

A. These places, as being near the sea, and in the boundaries of the land of Canaan, were 
figurative of the knowledges, both interior and exterior, necessary for introduction into the 
church, or heaven, represented by the land of Canaan, Tyre being figurative of interior 
knowledges, and Zidon of exterior. As therefore the descent of the BLESSED JESUS into Egypt, 
when He was a child, was figurative of His instruction in the scientifics of the church, with a 
view to the glorification of His human nature, or to making it divine; in like manner His 
departure here recorded into the coasts of Tyre and Zidon, denotes His further instruction in the 
knowledges represented by those two places. Frequent mention is accordingly made in the 
Psalms and in the prophetic writings, both of Tyre and Zidon, and in all cases with reference to 
their internal spiritual signification as above stated.

Q. But it is written, that Behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried to 
Him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, You Son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed 
with a devil——what do you here understand by a woman of Canaan coming out of those 
coasts?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by a woman of Canaan coming out of those coasts, is to 
be understood such a woman coming out of the coasts of Tyre and Zidon; but according to the 
spiritual or internal sense of the history, is to be understood the affection of truth in the church; 
for by Canaan is signified and represented the church; and by a woman, the affection of truth 
which constitutes the church; and by this woman coming out of the coasts of Tyre and Zidon is 

- 66-

further denoted the affection of truth emerging from the knowledges in which it was principled, 
and advancing to that state of purification and conjunction with the SUPREME GOOD, to which 
those knowledges point.

Q. And what do you conceive to be implied in the words which follow, where it is written? And 
cried to Him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, you Son of David; my daughter is grievously 
vexed with a devil?

A. By crying to Him, is to be understood the vehement affection from which she spoke; and by 
saying, is further to be understood the expression of that affection in her thought; and that this 
thought was grounded in a full persuasion of the divinity and divine humanity of the BLESSED 
JESUS whom she was addressing, is plain from the words which she applies on the occasion, 
Have mercy on me, O Lord, You Son of David. For by the exclamation, Have mercy on me, O 
Lord, is manifestly expressed an acknowledgement of the divinity of the being to whom it was 
directed, and by the additional appellation of You Son of David; is marked with equal emphasis 
the acknowledgement of His HUMANITY. It is added, my daughter is grievously vexed with a 
devil, to denote that the vehemence of her affection, and the piety of her exclamation, were 
grounded in the painful sentiment, that the heavenly good of love and charity, which had been 
produced in her mind, was infested by the infernal opposite principles of evil and of defilement, 
for by daughter is signified such heavenly good, which had been produced from the affection of 
truth; and by being grievously vexed with a devil, is denoted the infestation excited by infernal 
evil and defilement.

Q. But it is said that he (JESUS ) answered her not a word, And Hisdisciples came and besought 
Him, saying, Send her away; for she cries after us——what do you here understand by JESUS 
answering her not a word?

A. According to the literal idea, the expression means that He was silent; but the spiritual idea 
involved in silence is that of astonishment, since this sentiment maybe so great as to take away 
the use of speech. Thus it is written in the book of Revelations, (Rev. 8:1). that there was silence 
in heaven for the space of half an hour, to denote the astonishment, or amaze-merit of the angelic
host, at learning what was the state of the church, as it had been discovered in the preceding 
chapter. The silence, therefore, of the BLESSED JESUS on the present occasion, was the silence of 
astonishment, occasioned either by the faith of the supplicant woman who was addressing Him, 
and which He afterwards so highly commended, or by the consideration of the state of her 
unhappy daughter, who was grievously vexed with a devil.

Q. And how do you understand the following words, where it is said, that His disciples came and
besought Him, saying, Send her away, for she cries after us?

A. By the disciples are here to be understood those, who have received the knowledge of truth in 
their understandings, but are not yet equally principled in the good of love and charity in their 
wills; and it is the nature and disposition of such persons to judge others from the spirit of truth 
or faith alone, and not from a principle of heaven-born love or charity. When therefore these 

- 67-

disciples observed that the woman of Canaan was urgent with her entreaties in favour of her 
daughter, they would have sent her away without the blessing which she solicited, because she 
herself was not a disciple, or instructed in the doctrines or opinions which they had learned, and 
because she troubled them with her cries. And thus it is at this day that they, who are principled 
in the doctrine of faith alone, assigning it a pre-eminence over charity and good works, decide on
the merits of others from their opinions more than from their practices, and reprobate all who do 
not receive their creed, whatever respect they may pay to the commandments of God.

Q. But it follows that He (JESUS ) answered and said, I am not sent but to the lost sheep of the 
house of Israel — what do you conceive to be the purport of these words?

A. These words, in appearance, seem to justify the disciples, who requested that He would send 
the woman away ; but that this is only an appearance, and that the BLESSED JESUS therefore did 
not mean to vindicate His disciples, is evident from the concluding part of the history, in which 
we read that he granted the woman's request. In like manner it is evident from the words 
themselves, that JESUS did not intend absolutely to reject the petitions of the distressed woman, 
but only to try her faith, and thus to purify and strengthen it. For when he says, I am not sent but 
to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, He intended to teach His followers in all ages, that the 
grand end and design of His coming into the world was to assist and save those who were 
principled in some degree of heavenly good, but who, for want of the knowledge of the truth, are
in danger of being deprived of that good; all such being signified by the lost sheep of the house 
of Israel. It is not therefore to be understood that by the lost sheep of the house of Israel, are 
meant only the Jews, or they who were of the seed of Abraham according to the flesh; but the 
expression includes all those who were of the seed of Abraham according to the Spirit, that is to 
say, who possess the heavenly faith and love by which the patriarch was distinguished. JESUS 
CHRIST accordingly declares concerning the publican Zaccheus, who was by birth a Gentile, This
day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as He also is the son of Abraham, (Luke 19:9). 
evidently teaching that every one is a son of Abraham, who, like the publican Zaccheus, is 
principled in that faith and love which seek to see JESUS who He is, (verse 3).

Q. And what do you learn from the succeeding words, where it is written, Then came she and 
worshiped Him, saying, LORD, help me?

A. I learn from these words that a true faith and love is not to be discouraged by any apparent 
rejection of its petition, or by any seeming repulsion on the part of the ALMIGHTY. For 
notwithstanding the silence of the BLESSED JESUS in the first instance, and the subsequent reply, I
am not sent but to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, the distressed woman, who is the subject 
of this history, still persists in her adoration of her REDEEMING LORD, and in her supplication for 
his divine aid, thus instructing all future supplicants to persevere patiently in all their spiritual 
purposes, and not to be dispirited, whatsoever apparent difficulties and obstructions may present 
themselves.

- 68-

Q. And what do you learn further from the reply which the BLESSED JESUS makes on the 
occasion, and which is expressed in these words, It is not worthy to take the children's meat, and 
to cast it to dogs?

A. By the children, are here to be understood those of the church, who receive and cherish the 
heavenly principles of goodness and truth in their hearts and lives; and by their bread is to be 
understood the holy Word which contains these principles, according to which idea it is written, 
Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word which proceeds out of the mouth of GOD, 
(Deut. 8:3. Matthew 4:4). By dogs again are here to be understood the Gentiles, or those who are 
out of the church where the Word is taught and received, and according to this sense the term is 
again applied in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus, where it is written concerning the 
latter, that the dogs came and licked his sores, denoting that the ill effects resulting from false 
principles, which in the parable are here called sores, were healed by the externally good 
affections of the Gentiles, or of those who were not in possession of the Word. Yet dogs are 
frequently spoken of in the scripture in a bad sense, as denoting concupiscencies and appetites, 
agreeable to which sense it is written in the book of Psalms, For dogs have compassed me, (Ps. 
22:16). and in the Revelations, speaking of the holy city Jerusalem, For without are dogs, (Rev. 
22:15). When the BLESSED JESUS therefore said, It is not worthy to take the children's meat, and 
to cast it to dogs, He taught an important lesson of divine truth, namely. that the HOLY WORD 
ought not to be imparted to those who are not in a disposition to receive it; as He says also in 
another place, Give not that which is holy to the dogs, (Matthew 7:6). There is reason, however, 
to believe, that in the reply which he here makes to the distressed supplicant, He meant to try and
to exercise the principles of her faith and love, by presenting another apparently discouraging 
remark, and by such trial and exercise to purify the principles which were the subject of His 
operation. And that this was its effect, is evident from the answer made by the supplicant, where 
she says, Truth, LORD, but the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master's table, for 
these words are evidently words of humiliation, and at the same time of adoration of the 
DIVINITY of the GREAT SAVIOUR, also of assent to the truth which He delivered, implying likewise
that such is the DIVINE BOUNTY, that all receive from it more or less of spiritual nourishment, and
that consequently the Gentiles, who are here called dogs, derive benefit from the revealed Word, 
and though not fed to the full like the children, yet, partake of the crumbs, which fall from the 
plentiful table of the GREAT CREATOR and PRESERVER,

Q. But it is written in the conclusion, that JESUS answered and said to her, 0 woman, great is 
your faith; be it to you even as you will. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour
——what instruction do you learn from these words?

A. I learn from these words the blessed effect of patient perseverance in good desires and good 
purposes, and how, sooner or later, all difficulties and discouragements fall down before it; I 
learn further to distinguish this good effect by the three characters here given of it, first, as 
discovering to the woman the quality of her faith, and that it was a faith grounded in love and 
charity, signified by a great faith, for the term great is always applied in reference to that 
heavenly principle, or to its opposite. Secondly, as discovering further that the quality of every 
one, and his condition hereafter, depend altogether on the state of his will or love, signified by the

- 69-

words, Be it to you even as you will. And thirdly, as promoting the deliverance of the affection of 
good in the church from the infestations of infernal evils, signified by the words, And her 
daughter was made whole from that very hour.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn in the first place, that when the affection of truth in the church, by the acquirement of 
heavenly knowledge, is succeeded by the affection of good, which is the affection of heavenly 
love and charity, this latter affection is presently infested by evils, and by the infernal spirits who 
are in connection with those evils, and who seek to destroy it. I learn further, that in this state of 
infestation, the Omnipotence of the GREAT REDEEMER is sought for and supplicated, as the only 
power capable of removing the infestation. I learn again that the aid of this Omnipotence, 
according to appearance, is not immediately granted, and that many apparent difficulties and 
discouragements are wont to present themselves against it; Lastly, I learn that these apparent 
difficulties and discouragements only tend to the purification and confirmation of the good 
desires and purposes, which they seemed to oppose; and that finally, through the divine mercy 
and power of the INCARNATE GOD, which had been solicited, all apparent obstacles are removed, 
the quality of heavenly good in the devout supplicant is made manifest, the ruling love is 
discovered to be the arbiter of man's eternal state, and infernal infestation is no longer suffered to
assault and vex the troubled spirit. I am resolved therefore, that under all the infestations of evil 
spirits which are permitted to molest me, I will follow the example of the devout woman, whose 
great faith is recorded in the above history, and therefore, whatsoever discouragements may be 
thrown in my way, whether they be real or apparent; and Howsoever my GOD and SAVIOUR may 
delay the fulfilment of my desires and petitions, I will not cast away my confidence, but will still 
patiently persevere, until I hear from His divine lips the consolatory words, Great is your faith; 
be it, to you even as you will. AMEN.

- 70-

The Lame, Blind, Dumb, Maimed, and Many Others Healed

Matthew 15:30 to 32

And great multitudes came to Him, having with them those that were lame, blind, dumb, maimed,
and many others, and cast them down at JESUS'S feet, and He healed them, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by great multitudes?

A. By great multitudes, according to the sense of the letter, are to be understood great multitudes
of people or persons; but according to the spiritual sense are to be understood multitudes of 
principles and persuasions; which principles and persuasions were disordered, according to the 
description given in the history of this miracle, some being lame, some blind, some dumb, some 
maimed, with many other disorders.

Q. And what do you mean by principles and persuasions of these several characters?

A. A principle and persuasion is lame, when it has no orderly connection with the fountain of 
life, being destitute of that knowledge of genuine truth which is necessary to give it such 
connection, for without genuine truth, the FOUNTAIN of LIFE cannot descend into the life of man, 
neither can the life of man ascend to the FOUNTAIN of LIFE. Man therefore, in such case, is 
spiritually lame, in like manner as he is corporeally lame, when a limb or member of the body 
has no orderly connection with the fountain of its life. Again, a principle or persuasion is 
spiritually blind when it is without the intelligence of truth, or, what amounts to the same, 
without the light of heaven, since as the body is blind, which has no eye capable of discerning 
the things of this world, in like manner the soul is blind, which has no understanding capable of 
discerning the things of another world. Again, a principle or persuasion is dumb, when it can-not 
speak the praises of its MAKER, and tell of all his wondrous works, since as the bodily mouth is 
dumb, when it cannot give utterance to natural thoughts, so as to communicate them to others, 
for the same reason the spiritual mouth is dumb, when it cannot communicate to others its 
spiritual thoughts. Lastly, a principle or persuasion is maimed, when it is destitute of the love of 
the SUPREME GOOD; in other words, when natural love is separated from spiritual love, since as 
the body is maimed when injury is done to any of its members, so that the connection is broken 
between them and the heart, in like manner the spirit is maimed, when any perverse affection 
separates any of its members from the influences of heavenly love and charity.

Q. And what do you understand by what is further written, where it is said, That they cast them 
down at JESUS's feet, and He healed them?

A. According to the sense of the letter, by these words is to be understood, that the lame, the 
blind, the dumb, and the maimed, were really laid at the bodily feet of JESUS , and that he healed 
them; but according to the above spiritual sense of this miracle is to be understood that the 
spiritually lame, the spiritually blind, the spiritually dumb, and the spiritually maimed, had 
access to the NATURAL HUMANITY of the BLESSED JESUS, and had thereby communication with 

- 71-

the healing virtue flowing forth from the DIVINITY which dwelt in that HUMANITY, and was one 
with it. For as the feet of man are the lowest parts of his body, on which the higher parts stand 
and operate, they are therefore figurative and representative of the lower principles of his spirit, 
which principles are called natural, as being In the nearest connexion with the world of nature. 
Accordingly the term feet is frequently applied in the sacred Scriptures to express the lower 
principles of man's natural life, as where it is written, Your word is a lamp to my feet, (Ps. 
119:105). He shall pluck my feet out of the net, (Ps. 25:15). You have set my feet in a large room, 
(Psalm 31:8). He has set my feet on a rock, (Ps. 40:2). He suffer eth not our feet to be moved, (Ps.
66:9). As for me my feet were almost gone, (Ps. 73:2). I turned my feet to your testimonies, (Ps. 
119:59), together with numberless other passages to the same purpose, all tending to prove that 
by feet, when the term occurs in the sacred Scriptures, are not to be understood the bodily feet 
only, but those external natural principles, which are as feet to the mind. Accordingly, the GREAT 
REDEEMER is described in the Revelations as to His feet, which are said to be like fine brass, 
(Rev. 1:15), to denote the purity of His natural principle, when it was glorified, or made DIVINE.

Q. But it is written that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to
be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see; and they glorified the GOD of Israel — what 
instruction do you learn from these words?

A. From the wondering of the multitude, I am instructed that nothing excites so much 
astonishment and adoration in the devout mind, as the contemplation of the operations of the 
ALMIGHTY, especially when those operations are exercised in the removal of man's spiritual 
disorders; and in his restoration thus to the order and life of heaven. This removal and restoration
are signified by the dumb speaking, the maimed being whole, the lame walking, and the blind 
seeing, for under these four classes of infirmity and disorder, and of recovery, are involved all the
evils and errors to which the nature of man is exposed, and from which, through the divine 
mercy, he hopes for deliverance. It is therefore added, They glorified the GOD of ISRAEL, because 
by the GOD of ISRAEL, the same thing is understood as by the feet of the BLESSED JESUS, namely. 
His NATURAL HUMANITY, which is then said to be glorified, when it is devoutly approached as the
only fountain of all spiritual life, virtue, power, and salvation. It is further to be observed 
concerning this appellation, The GOD of ISRAEL, that in the Old Testament it is assumed by 
JEHOVAH HIMSELF, who calls Himself The GOD, of ISRAEL, as being the Saviour of those who are 
signified by Israel, namely. His spiritual church, and who could not have been saved, unless they 
could have approached their GOD as a MAN, and thus have attained conjunction with Him as a 
MAN. Such a MAN was the GREAT REDEEMER as to His NATURAL HUMANITY, which HUMANITY He
successively glorified until It became one with His DIVINITY, and thus He gives to His spiritual 
children perpetual access to and conjunction with Himself, whilst they, in their turn, receiving 
from His DIVINE BODY a cure for all their spiritual disorders, glorify Him as the GOD of ISRAEL; 
and in so doing, acknowledge Him to be the same identical Being with the GREAT JEHOVAH.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the combination of miracles here 
recorded?

- 72-

A. I learn that in the church in general, and in every individual member of the church in 
particular, there are numberless and nameless principles and persuasions, many of which are in a 
state of infirmity and disorder, answering to the four classes recorded in the above history, called 
the lame, the blind, the dumb, and the maimed. I learn further, that it is the wisdom of the church 
in general, and of every member of the church in particular, to lay these disordered principles and
persuasions at the feet of the BLESSED JESUS; in other words, to submit them to the blessed 
influence and control of His DIVINE HUMANITY, as the only medium of their access to and 
conjunction with the SUPREME DIVINITY who is one with it. Lastly, I learn that the BLESSED 
JESUS, in this His DIVINE HUMANITY, is ever near, and infinitely willing to administer a remedy 
from HIMSELF for every infirmity, disorder, evil, and error, to which the nature of man is subject, 
whether consisting in lameness, which is the want of genuine truth, or in blindness, which is the 
want of spiritual intelligence, or in dumbness, which is the want of spiritual utterance, or in being
maimed, which is the want of genuine affection, and that the view of this His nearness and 
willingness, and of the blessed effects thereby produced, begets in the devout mind sentiments at 
once of astonishment and of adoration. I am resolved therefore from now on to imitate the 
multitudes above described, by looking attentively into the interiors of my own mind, and there 
discovering all that is lame, blind, dumb, maimed, with every other infirmity and disorder, and by
laying them, when discovered, at the feet of the BLESSED JESUS, and thus submitting them to the 
influence and control of His divine mercy, wisdom, and omnipotence, as manifested in His 
DIVINE HUMANITY. Thus may I humbly hope, like the wondering multitude of old, to be excited 
to astonishment at the redeeming power of my GOD and SAVIOUR, when I behold the dumb 
speaking, the maimed made whole, the lame walking, and the blind seeing; and thus too, with 
them, observing that all these blessed effects are derived from His DIVINE HUMANITY, I may be 
admitted to the honour and happiness of glorifying with them the GOD of ISRAEL. AMEN.

- 73-

The Miracle Of The Seven Loaves And Fishes

Matthew 15:32-the end.

Then JESUS called His disciples to Him, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because 
they continue with me now three days and have nothing to eat; and I will not send them away 
fasting, lest they faint in the way, etc.

Q. IN speaking of the miracle of the five loaves recorded in the foregoing chapter, you have 
already explained the principal circumstances attending this miracle, particularly in regard to the 
compassion of the BLESSED JESUS, and also in regard to the loaves and fishes, and the baskets-
full of fragments which were taken up. Can you now tell me in what respects the present miracle 
differs from the farmer, and what is the ground of that difference?

A. The present miracle differs from the former in these four respects, first, that the number of 
loaves, in the present instance, was seven, whereas in the former case they were five; secondly, 
that on the present occasion the multitude were commanded to sit down on the ground, whereas 
on the former occasion they were commanded to sit down on the grass; thirdly, that the number 
of men, who were fed by the loaves, in the present instance were four thousand, whereas in the 
former case they were five thousand; fourthly, that in the present instance the number of baskets 
taken up were seven, whereas in the former case they were twelve. It is remarkable also that in 
the original Greek, the baskets mentioned in the two miracles are called by different names, for 
in the former miracle they are called Cophinoi, whereas in the latter they are called Spurides.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the ground of all these differences in the two miracles?

A. Each miracle is to be conceived as figurative and significative of a communication of 
heavenly good from the BLESSED JESUS to His church, and of the reception of that good by His 
church. But the good communicated by the BLESSED JESUS to His church is of two kinds, namely.
the good of truth or faith, and the good of love or charity; and the former of these goods always 
precedes and is intended to conduct to the latter. When therefore the church had been fed and 
nourished by the former of these goods, and the period was now arrived for its reception of the 
latter, this reception is here recorded in the Evangelical History, and marked with such distinct 
characters, as to leave no doubt in the minds of the intelligent what is its distinct signification 
and meaning. For in the first place, it is said of the multitude on this occasion, that they had 
continued with JESUS now three days, denoting a full state of instruction in spiritual knowledge; 
for by three days is to be understood a full and complete period; and by continuing with JESUS, is
further to be understood & a state of instruction. In the second place, the number of loaves are 
recorded to be seven, and the number seven, it is well known, denotes what is holy, and is usually
applied in the sacred Scriptures to a state of love and charity, and therefore on the present 
occasion, when applied to the loaves, is significative of holy nourishment, that is to say, the 
nourishment derived from love and charity. In the third place, the multitude were commanded to 
sit down on the ground, not on the grass, as in the former miracle, denoting a state of more 

- 74-

interior reception of good, for by ground is signified what is interior in respect to grass, which is 
its exterior product. In the fourth place, the number of men, who were fed by these loaves, are 
here said to be four thousand, and the number four, like the number two, from which it arises by 
multiplication, is always applied to denote a state of conjunction, thus the conjunction of love 
and wisdom, or of charity and faith, and therefore four yousand men, in the present instance, 
denote those of the church, in whom love and wisdom, or charity and faith are conjoined. Lastly, 
the number of baskets taken up, on the present occasion, were seven, which number, as was 
above noted, is always applied to denote what is most holy, thus what relates to love and charity.

Q. You tell me that there are two kinds of spiritual good communicated by the BLESSED JESUS to 
His church, namely. the good of truth or faith, and the good of love or charity, will you now be 
pleased to inform me, how you distinguish these two kinds of good from each other?

A. The good of truth or faith is the good done by man, whenever he submits his life, that is to 
say, his affections, thoughts, words, and works, to be guided and governed by the principles of 
truth, or faith operative in his understanding; thus when he is under the leading of intellectual 
light, and is obedient to that light, as proceeding from the revealed Word of the MOST HIGH. On 
the other hand, the good of love or charity is the good done by man, when he begins to rise above
the principles of truth or faith in his intellectual mind, and to act from the higher principle of love
to GOD and his neighbour operative in his will, thus, when he is no longer led by the light of truth
or faith alone, but is governed, because warmed by the genial heat of heaven-born regard to GOD 
in the Highest, and good-will towards men. These two distinct classes of good are carefully to be 
discriminated from each other, being in agreement with other distinctions frequently referred to 
in the sacred Scriptures, as with the distinction between knowing and doing, (John 22:17), 
between a prophet's reward and a righteous man's reward, (Matthew 40:41), between the 
wisdom of the serpent and the harmlessness of the dove, (Matthew x. 16), between the sheep, 
whom Peter was required to feed, (John 21:16), and the sheep which he was again required to 
feed, (verse 17). For by all these distinctions we are taught, that the life of man consists of two 
distinct principles, namely. will and understanding, the will being created to be a receptacle of 
the divine love, as the understanding is created to be a receptacle of the divine wisdom. We are 
therefore taught further by the same distinctions, that there are two kinds or degrees of heavenly 
good, or of that good which connects man with heaven, and is his qualification hereafter for 
admission into heaven, namely. the good produced by and from an enlightened understanding, 
and the good produced by and from a purified will. To conduct man then to the knowledge of 
these two kinds of good, and to teach him the importance of attending well to their distinct 
natures and qualities, appears to have been the design of the divine providence in the two 
miracles above recorded, the first of which was intended to teach the edifying lesson, that the 
good of faith, or truth, is from JESUS CHRIST, and has conjunction with Him and His kingdom, 
whilst the second was intended to teach the edifying lesson, that the good of love, or charity, is 
likewise from JESUS CHRIST, and in a still closer degree of conjunction with that GREAT GOD and 
His eternal kingdom.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above miracle?

- 75-

A. I learn again to adore the mercy and omnipotence of my GOD and SAVIOUR, who, on two 
several occasions, was pleased to supply His children in a miraculous manner with food and 
nourishment for their perishable bodies, and to convince them, under that striking figure, of the 
infinitely more substantial and durable nourishment which He continually administers for the 
support and comfort of their immortal souls. I am taught further, by the above miracle, the 
edifying lesson, to distinguish the nourishment of the soul into two kinds, namely. that which is 
imparted by means of heavenly truth, or faith in the understanding, and that which is produced 
by love and charity in the will. I am still further instructed that both the one and the other of 
these two kinds of good is accepting of the bliss of heaven, and consequently is a qualification 
for introduction into the societies of heaven, because both the one and the other is in connexion 
with JESUS CHRIST, proceeding from Him, leading to Him, and abiding in Him. I am resolved 
therefore to attend well in my own mind to these two distinct kinds and orders of heavenly good, 
and so to feed upon the former, that I may finally be qualified to partake of the latter. Thus may I 
hope, through the divine mercy, to be one of the four thousand, who had the high happiness of 
being fed by their GOD and SAVIOUR; and thus too will some part of the seven loaves become my 
portion, and eating to the glory of GOD and the nourishment of my soul in His mercy and 
goodness, I also shall rejoice in taking up seven baskets-full of holy fragments. AMEN.

- 76-

The Transfiguration

Matthew 17:1-10

And after six days JESUS takes Peter, James, and John his brother, and brings them up into a 
high mountain apart, and was transfigured before them; and His face did shine as the sun, and 
His clothing was white as the light, etc.

Q. CAN you see any reason why Peter, James and John were selected, on this occasion from the 
rest of the disciples to be present at the LORD'S transfiguration?

A. The reason appears to be grounded in the figurative or representative character of those three 
apostles; for by Peter, as has been before hinted, is figured or represented the faith of the church, 
particularly that faith which acknowledges the DIVINITY of the GREAT REDEEMER; by James again
is figured or represented the principle of charity in the church, or that principle from GOD, by 
virtue whereof man is enabled to love his neighbour as himself; and by John is figured or 
represented the operation of charity, or that application to good and useful works, which has a 
tendency at once to promote the glory of GOD, to increase the sum of human happiness, and to 
purify and strengthen by exercise the heavenly principle in which it is grounded. The reason then
why the BLESSED JESUS selected these three disciples to be witnesses of His transfiguration was 
probably this, to teach the edifying and instructive lesson, that none are capable of beholding the 
glory of the GREAT SAVIOUR in His one-ness with the ETERNAL FATHER, but such as are principled
in the faith represented by Peter, in the charity represented by James, and in the good works 
represented by John.

Q. And can you see any reason why this selection was made after six days, or why after six days 
the BLESSED JESUS was pleased to manifest His interior glory to those three disciples?

A. The reason appears to be grounded in the spiritual signification of six days, which imply a full
state of previous labour, or spiritual combat, as a state preparative for admission to a nearer and 
closer conjunction with the principles of heavenly life, and thus with the LORD of HEAVEN, than 
could be attained without such labour or combat. Thus in the fourth commandment mention is 
made of six days' labour, as preparative of the seventh or sabbath-day, because by the six days' 
labour are there signified all the trials, conflicts and temptations necessary for man's purification 
before he can be qualified to enter into that holy rest signified by the sabbath or seventh-day. 
Thus too the history of creation, or of man's regeneration, as recorded in the first chapter of 
Genesis, is described as the work of six days, to denote again all the states of previous labour and
conflict necessary to conduct man to the complete regeneration, or to that blessedness of divine 
order, life and peace signified by the seventh day. 

Q. But it is written of the BLESSED JESUS and His disciples on this occasion, that He brings them 
up into a high mountain — what do you understand here by bringing them up into a high 
mountain?

- 77-

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words, are to be understood literally, as teaching 
that the BLESSED JESUS brought the three disciples, into a high mountain of the matter and 
measure of this lower world; but according to the spiritual idea of a high mountain, the 
expression is figurative, like the six days above spoken of, and the thing figured by it is a state of 
heavenly love, resulting from a near and close conjunction of life with the DIVINE FOUNTAIN of 
LIFE. Thus it is written in regard to this figurative meaning, O LORD, by Your favour you have 
made my mountain to stand strong, (Psal. 30:7); and thus too the mountain of the LORD'S house is
said to be established in the top of the mountains, and to be exalted above the hills, (Isa. 2:2); in 
both which passages it is evident that the term mountain is applied figuratively, as in numberless 
other parts of the sacred Scriptures, to denote a state of holy love, communicated from the MOST 
HIGH, and in conjunction with Him. Mountain, then as applied to the LORD HIMSELF, denotes the 
divine love, and as applied to His disciples, denotes love derived from the divine. The spiritual 
meaning, therefore, of the above words, as connected in a series, is this, that after the period of 
previous preparation, they who are principled in faith, in charity, and in works of charity, are 
exalted to a state of holy conjunction with JESUS CHRIST in the blessed principle of His love.

Q. And what do you learn from the words which follow, where it is written that He was 
transfigured before them; and His face did shine as the sun, and His clothing was white as the 
light?

A. The original word here rendered transfigured signifies more properly transformed, and the 
genuine idea of transformation, when applied to a person, is the presenting an aspect different 
from what he usually presents, thus as applied in the present case to the BLESSED JESUS, it 
denotes His presenting the aspect of His DIVINITY, or of His DIVINE HUMANITY, instead of that 
infirm humanity, in which He was usually presented to view. It therefore follows, that His face 
did shine as the sun, and His clothing was white as the light; because by His face is to be 
understood His interior mind or spirit, the face being the figure or index of the interiors, 
agreeable to which idea so frequent mention is made in the sacred Scriptures of the face or 
countenance of JEHOVAH and of GOD, as denoting His divine mercy and love, thus His essential 
life. By this face then shining as the sun is to be understood, that the interior mind or soul of the 
BLESSED JESUS was seen to be DIVINE GOOD, the sun being a figure or emblem in outward nature 
of DIVINITY, and of His essential life, since what the sun is to the natural world and its 
inhabitants, that the DIVINITY is to the spiritual world and its inhabitants. It is accordingly added, 
that His clothing was white as the light, because as the face of the BLESSED JESUS is a figure or 
index of His interior mind or soul, in like mariner His clothing is a figure or index equally 
striking of the external principle with which the internal is invested: and as the internal principal,
agreeable to what was shown above, is His divine good or love, therefore the external principle 
here denoted by clothing is His divine truth and wisdom, inasmuch as divine truth or wisdom is 
always proceeding from the divine good or love, and investing it as a garment; according to 
which idea it is written of JEHOVAH, That He covers with light as with a garment, (Psal. 104:2). 
This garment, therefore, is here said to be white as the light, because whiteness is figurative of 
the purity of truth, and is constantly so applied in the sacred Scriptures, and light is alike 
figurative of the truth itself, and is as constantly applied in the sacred Scriptures according to that
figure. If the sense then of this verse be connected in a series with that of the foregoing verse, the

- 78-

whole will run thus, that they of the church, who are principled in faith, in charity, and in works 
of charity, after previous preparation, are elevated into a state of heavenly love, in which state the
intellectual mind is opened to a sight of the BLESSED JESUS in His DIVINE HUMANITY, as the ONLY
GOD of heaven and earth, because the only source of all heavenly love and wisdom, consequently
of all heavenly life, thus as the sun of the eternal world, beaming forth perpetually with the heat 
and light of the divine mercy and loving-kindness.

Q. But it is next written, that behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elias talking with Him 
— how do you understand these words? 

A. These words have both a literal and a spiritual meaning, and the lesson which they teach 
according to each meaning is important and edifying. For according to their literal meaning, they
overthrow at once the creed of the infidel, who denies a resurrection, by assuring us that Moses 
and Elias were then alive; and at the same time they expose the fallacy by which they are misled,
who conceive that souls after death are not sensible of life and existence until the day of the 
general resurrection, when they shall be united again with their perishable bodies. In their 
spiritual sense again they inculcate a doc-trine still more interesting and instructive, be-cause by 
Moses and Elms, according to this sense, the same thing is meant as by Moses and the prophets 
mentioned in other parts of the sacred Scriptures, namely. the historical and prophetical word, by 
Moses the historical word, and by Elias the prophetical: and since these two persons appeared 
talking with the BLESSED JESUS, it is further to be understood, according to the spiritual idea, that
the historical and prophetical word was seen in its internal sense, ever treating of that INCARNATE
GOD and His kingdom, If the spiritual sense then of this verse be connected in a series with that 
of the two foregoing verses, the whole will read thus, that they who are principled in faith, in 
charity, and in works of charity, are not only elevated into a blessed sphere of heavenly love, in 
which they behold JESUS CHRIST in His DIVINE HUMANITY shining as a sun, and dispensing from 
His bright countenance the beams of heavenly love and light, bat also have a perception of the 
HOLY WORD, both as to its historical and prophetical pages. and see it in perpetual connection 
with its divine source, from whom it derives the fullness of its life, its sanctity, its wisdom, and 
its power.

Q. And what instruction do you learn from the following verse, where it is written, that then 
answered Peter, and said to JESUS, LORD, it is good for us to be here. If you will, let us make here
three tabernacles, one for You, and one for Moses, and one for Elias?

A. I learn from these words the proper quality and character of those in the church, who are 
principled in a genuine and living faith, namely. that in the first place they say with Peter, It is 
good for us to be here; in other words, they think it their highest happiness to enjoy the blessing 
of interior communion with their GOD and SAVIOUR, adoring His perfections, contemplating His 
glory, and perceiving to their great joy how HE and His HOLY WORD are connected together by a 
bond of indissoluble union, whilst He is the All of its life, its light, and its energy; and in the 
second place, that they say further, Let us build three tabernacles, etc. because they are ever 
intent on fixing their happiness in themselves, by inviting the BLESSED JESUS to come and dwell 
with them, together with all the goods and truths of His HOLY WORD, and by thus consecrating 

- 79-

their souls and bodies, with every principle in both, as sacred habitations, devoted to the 
everlasting residence of the GREAT FATHER of LIFE, attended by all the angelic powers of purity, 
sanctity, peace, and benediction.

Q. But it follows, that while He yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and 
behold, a voice out of the cloud which said. This is my Moved Son, in whom I am well pleased; 
hear you Him — what do you conceive to be the meaning of these words?

A. By the bright cloud, which is here said to have overshadowed the disciples, is to be 
understood the letter or literal sense of the HOLY WORD, made resplendent from its internal or 
spiritual sense, for the letter of the HOLY WORD, in respect to its internal light and lustre, is as a 
cloud; a bright cloud, if the internal sense be seen through it; but a dark cloud, if it be not seen. 
Accordingly the term cloud is frequently applied in other parts of the sacred Scriptures, to denote
the obscurity of the letter of the HOLY RECORDS, when compared with their internal glory and 
splendour, as where it is written, Your truth reacheth to the clouds, where by your truth is meant 
the interior sense of the DIVINE WORD, and by reaching to the clouds is meant its extent to and 
limitation in the sense of the letter: so again it is written, He spread a cloud for a covering, and 
fire to give light in the night, (Psal. 105:39), where by a cloud for a covering is again to be 
understood the letter of the DIVINE WORD, at once hiding and defending its interior holy contents. 
Again, to the same purport, Who makes the clouds his chariot, (Psalm 104:3), denoting that the 
literal sense or history of the sacred Scriptures is as a vehicle for the conveyance of the spiritual 
or internal sense to the minds of men. Accordingly JESUS CHRIST, in describing His second 
advent, expresses Himself in these remarkable words, Then they shall see the Son of Man coming
in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, (Matthew 24:30; Mark 13:26), where by the 
Son of Man is evidently meant the LORD in His DIVINE HUMANITY; and by His coming in the 
clouds of heaven with power and great glory, is further to be understood His manifestation of 
Himself through the letter of His HOLY WORD in all the goods and truths of its interior contents.

Q. And in what sense do you understand what is further written, Behold, a voice out of the cloud,
which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear you Him?

A. By a voice out of the cloud, is to be under-, stood instruction from the letter of the Word, and 
by this voice saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear you Him, is 
further to be understood the LORD in His DIVINE HUMANITY, who is one with the ETERNAL 
FATHER, and who is therefore to be attended to and obeyed as the GOD of heaven and earth, and 
the only source of all divine love and wisdom, thus, of all goodness and truth.

Q. But it is written further, that when the disciples heard, they fell on their faces, and were sore 
afraid — what do you conceive to be the force and meaning of these words?

A. According to their literal sense, they contain a description of the fear which fell on the 
disciples, when they heard the voice from the cloud; but according to the spiritual idea contained 
in the letter, they describe the effect worked in the minds of all true disciples, when they are 
instructed concerning the LORD'S DIVINE HUMANITY, which effect first manifests itself in devout 

- 80-

humiliation, signified by the disciples falling on their faces, and next in a sacred awe of 
adoration, signified further by their being sore afraid, agreeable to which idea it is written of 
John in the Revelations, that when he had a sight of JESUS CHRIST in His DIVINE HUMANITY, he 
fell at His feet as dead, (Rev. 1:17). For such is the effect produced in the natural mind by the 
first discovery of the INCARNATE GOD, dwelling in His GLORIFIED HUMANITY as the GOD of 
heaven and earth, which effect results from the greater nearness and more powerful presence of 
the DIVINE BEING in that manifestation.

Q. And what do you understand by what next follows, that JESUS came and touched them, and 
said. Arise, and be not afraid?

A. These words, according to their literal meaning, have relation to the three disciples, Peter, 
James and John; but according to their spiritual meaning they relate to all those who are 
represented by Peter, James and John, namely. those who are principled in faith, those who are 
principled in charity, and those who are principled in works of charity; and according to this 
meaning, by JESUS coming to them is signified divine presence; and by His touching them is 
signified communication of divine virtue or power; and by saying arise, is further signified 
Spiritual elevation, or elevation of the mind's affections and thoughts in consequence of that 
divine virtue or power; and by His adding, Be not afraid, is lastly denoted divine confidence 
resulting from that elevation.

Q. And what instruction do you learn from what is afterwards written, That when they lifted up 
their eyes, they saw no man, but JESUS only?

A. By lifting up their eyes is denoted an elevation of the understanding, in consequence of the 
former elevation of the affections and thoughts, for when the affections and thoughts are raised 
out of worldly ends, to the contemplation and pursuit of eternal objects, the understanding is 
presently elevated in the same degree, and begins to be employed in the intellectual perception of
those objects: and when this is the case, then is fulfilled too what is here further written, where it 
is said that they saw no man, (or as it is expressed in the original, no one) but JESUS only; for 
when the understanding is elevated to the perception of divine and spiritual objects, then it 
begins soon to be seen, that all those objects are included in the person of the BLESSED JESUS; in 
other words, that JESUS in HIS DIVINE HUMANITY is the All of heaven, the All of the holy Word, 
the All of the church on earth, the All of every member of the church, because the All of 
goodness and truth, consequently the All of salvation and eternal life. Thus, when the 
understanding is elevated to spiritual perception, JESUS alone is seen as the All in All of every 
thing both divine and human.

Q. But it is lastly written, that when they came down from the mountain, JESUS charged them, 
saying, Tell the vision to no man until the Son of Man be risen again from the dead – what do 
you understand by these words?

A. By their coming down from the mountain is denoted a descent from the state of love and 
affection, to which they had been elevated, into the duties of common life, by application to 

- 81-

purposes of use; and by JESUS charging the disciples on this occasion, to tell the vision to no 
man until the Son of Man be risen from the dead, is tobe understood according to the sense of the
letter, that they should not tell what they had seen to any one, until JESUS CHRIST was risen from 
the dead; but according to the spiritual sense of the above words, the caution of the BLESSED 
JESUS was to this effect, that they, who had been favoured with intellectual elevation and 
perception, should be careful of imparting their spiritual communications to those who are not hi 
a state capable of receiving and profiting by them, that is to say, in whom the Son of Man is not 
risen from the dead, for by the Son of Man is here to be understood the truth of the holy Word; 
and by this Son of Man being risen from the dead, is spiritually to be understood the resurrection,
manifestation and operation of that truth in the natural mind of man, which was before dead in 
trespasses and sins, that is to say, in mere natural affections and thoughts.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle of the transfiguration?

A. I learn in the first place that there are three heavenly principles from JESUS CHRIST, in which 
He chiefly delights, and which He implants in the minds and lives of all His regenerate children, 
namely. faith, charity, and the operation of charity, commonly called good works. I learn further 
that they, who are wise to cherish in themselves these three principles, are exalted by them into 
the sphere of the divine love, and in that elevation have an interior sight in their mind's eye of the
DIVINE HUMANITY of JESUS CHRIST in His one-ness with the ETERNAL FATHER, beholding Him as
the divine source of all celestial good and truth. I learn also that in the same elevation they are 
favoured with a view of the HOLY WORD, and have their eyes open to see that it treats throughout 
of the GREAT SAVIOUR, and as to its internal contents is in continual connection with Him, being 
full of His divine love and wisdom. I learn further, that it is the quality and character of a true 
faith, to delight in such views of JESUS CHRIST and His WORD, and that they, who are principled 
in such a faith, desire nothing more than to make their own minds the sacred tabernacles or 
abodes of that GREAT GOD and His revealed will. Again, I am taught that the letter of the HOLY 
WORD is as a bright cloud overshadowing, covering, and defending its internal contents, and is 
ever bearing testimony to the DIVINE HUMANITY of JESUS CHRIST, and His one-ness with the 
ETERNAL FATHER, which testimony begets profound humiliation and sacred awe in the minds of 
the penitent, whereby they are admitted to a closer communication with their SAVIOUR GOD, and 
are at the same time made sensible in their minds of the elevation which it begets, and of the 
confidence which it inspires. Lastly, I learn that in that elevation of the understanding, JESUS 
CHRIST is seen as the All in All of His HOLY WORD, of heaven, and of the church, but that this 
view cannot be imparted to those, who do not suffer their minds to be elevated and enlightened 
by the eternal truth. I am resolved therefore to cherish in my mind, above all things, the above 
heavenly principles of faith, of charity, and of the operation of charity, that so, being elevated 
into the region of angelic love, I may view with the eye of faith the DIVINE HUMANITY of the 
INCARNATE GOD, and may further be enabled to see how His HOLY WORD is continually treating 
of the glorification of that humanity, and is thus full of divine love and wisdom, even in the sense
of the letter. Thus may I hope, like the three disciples of old, to experience in. myself the blessed 
effects of this heavenly view, by being led into profound humiliation and adoration, and thereby 
into fuller communication with my GOD and SAVIOUR, and a more complete reception of His love
and life. And thus, too, may I humbly hope to be enabled to discover, to my unspeakable joy, that

- 82-

JESUS CHRIST in His DIVINE HUMANITY, is the All in All of love, of wisdom, and of life, thus the 
All of heaven, the All of the church, the All of salvation, and the All of bliss, because the FIRST 
and the LAST, the ALPHA and OMEGA, the BEGINNING and the ENDING, which is, which was, and 
which is to come, the ALMIGHTY, (Rev. 1:8). AMEN.

The Lunatic Healed

Matthew 17:14-22.

And when they were come to the multitude, there came to Him a man, kneeling down to Him, and
saying, LORD, have mercy on my son; for he is lunatic, and sore vexed: for oft-times he falls into 
the fire, and oft into the water, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by the man kneeling down to JESUS, and saying, LORD, have 
mercy on my son, for he is lunatic? etc.

A. According to the literal sense of this history, by the man here spoken of is meant one, who 
supplicates the BLESSED JESUS in favour of his lunatic son; but according to the spiritual or 
internal sense, by the man here spoken of is represented and signified the church as to the 
understanding of truth; and by his kneeling down to JESUS is to be understood profound 
humiliation; and by his saying, LORD, have mercy on my son, for he is lunatic and sore vexed, is 
further denoted devout acknowledgement of the divinity of the GREAT SAVIOUR, attended with 
fervent supplication to be delivered from the infestation occasioned by false principles in their 
connection with the powers of darkness. For by son, according to the spiritual idea, is to be 
understood truth in the understanding; and by this son being lunatic and sore vexed, is further 
denoted the infestation of that truth by false principles. For the term lunatic literally means one 
who is affected by the changes of the moon, and since the moon, according to its spiritual 
signification in a good sense, has respect to the principles of faith, and is representative of those 
principles, as the sun has respect to the principle of love, and is representative of that principle, 
therefore by lunatic, as the word is here applied in a bad sense, is to be understood the persuasion
of truth infested by false principles, on which account it is said to be sore vexed.

Q. But it is added, that oft-times he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water – what do you 
understand by these words?

A. According to their literal sense, they are to be understood literally, as having relation to 
elementary fire and water, and to the man falling alternately into these elements; but according to
the spiritual idea, by fire and water are here to be understood the distinct spiritual principles, in 
which the above infestation of truth originated, fire denoting in this case the concupiscencies of 

- 83-

evil, and water the false persuasions derived from those concupiscencies. For such is the nature 
of all spiritual infestation of heavenly truth, whenever that truth is first made manifest in the 
human understanding, since on this occasion the natural hereditary evils, which as yet have not 
been discovered and subdued, begin to assault, with endeavour to destroy, this first dawning of 
the eternal light, by claiming that light as their own, and not allowing it to bow down and 
acknowledge its DIVINE PARENT. In the mean time the truth labours to defend itself under this 
assault, because the truth always points upward towards heaven, and seeks conjunction with the 
GOD of HEAVEN. Moreover, the truth is ever intent on connecting itself with charity, and bringing 
forth the fruits of a pure and holy life, whereas hereditary evils are always eager to connect the 
truth with self-love and the love of the world, and to do works apparently good, but which have 
no real goodness in them, because not done to the glory of GOD, Hence then arises the 
infestation, which is here described by being lunatic and sore vexed, and by oft-times falling into
the fire, and oft into the water.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the meaning of the words which immediately follow, I 
brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him?

A. These words imply, according to their literal sense, that the disciples were not able to cure the 
lunatic, who was sore vexed, but according to their spiritual sense they imply, that the disciples 
were not yet sufficiently instructed in truths to combat and cast out the evil spirit, by which the 
understanding of truth in the church was infested. For from the history of this miracle, especially 
as it is recorded by Mark, it appears that this evil spirit was under the influence of false 
principles, for he is there described as foaming and gnashing with his teeth, (Mark. 9:18), which 
expressions are constantly applied in the sacred Scriptures to denote the collision of erroneous 
persuasions in their combat against truth. In answer therefore to the question proposed afterwards
by the disciples, Why could not we cast him out? the BLESSED JESUS replies, Because of your 
unbelief, which is the same thing as if He had said, Because ye are not yet principled in truths; 
for all faith is formed from truths, and therefore the want of truths is the real source of all 
unbelief.

Q. But it is written, that JESUS answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long
shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring him here to me. And JESUS rebuked the 
devil, and he departed out of him; and the child was cured from that very hour — what 
instruction do you receive from these words?

A. From these words I am instructed first in the awful and fallen state of the Jewish church at 
that time, which drew from the GREAT SAVIOUR the severe rebuke of being a faithless and 
perverse generation, for by being faithless is implied that they were destitute of all heavenly 
truth; and by being perverse, that they were alike destitute of all heavenly good. I learn secondly 
from the affectionate expostulation, How long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? 
that the compassionate love of the BLESSED JESUS is not to be exhausted by any degree of 
faithlessness and perverseness on the part of man. This compassionate love therefore still 
addresses itself to its infested, children, labouring in the combat of truth against error, and of 
error against truth, and says of every suffering child, Bring him here to me. It also still rebukes 

- 84-

the infesting and infernal power, until he departs out of the infested subject, so that again is 
fulfilled what is here written, that the child was cured from that very hour. Thus does every 
infestation, arising from, the powers of darkness, tend still, if it be resisted, to make more 
manifest both the mercy and omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the force and meaning of the following words of the BLESSED
JESUS on this occasion, where He says, If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you shall 
say to this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove; and nothing shall be 
impossible to you?

A. By faith is here to be understood a faith in the INCARNATE GOD, which is compared to a grain 
of mustard-seed, because in its commencement it is small, inasmuch as at that period man is led 
to believe that it is from himself and not from GOD. Nevertheless the BLESSED JESUS, declares 
even of this faith, that it is capable of removing mountains, by which mountains are to be 
understood spiritually the evils of self-love and the love of the world, since as a mountain, in a 
good sense, is representative and significative of heavenly love, so in the opposite sense it is 
representative and significative of infernal love, according to which latter sense a caution is 
given in the prophet against the feet stumbling upon the dark mountains, (Jer. 13:16); and again, 
I am against you O destroying mountain, (Jer. 21:25); and again, Every mountain shall be 
brought low, (Isaiah 11:4); not to mention many other passages from the sacred Scriptures to the 
same purpose. It is added, on this occasion, in the gospel according to Luke, that this same faith 
is capable of removing a sycamore-tree, for thus it is written, If you had faith as a grain of 
mustard-seed, you might say to this sycamine-tree, Be you plucked up by the root, and be you 
planted in the sea; and it should obey you, (Luke 17:6), where by a sycamine-tree is to be 
understood the persuasion of what is false originating in evil. JESUS CHRIST would therefore here
teach us the power of a divine faith, by virtue of which a true Christian is enabled to remove 
from himself all infestations, whether arising from evil or from error, and to cast them into the 
infernal pit from whence they proceed. It is therefore lastly added, Nothing shall be impossible to
you, because under the influence of the above faith, the true Christian connects his will with the 
divine will, his wisdom with the divine wisdom, and his ability with the divine ability, in such a 
sort, that he can no longer will, desire, or endeavour to obtain any thing but what is in agreement 
with the will, the desire, and the operation of His HEAVENLY FATHER, and thus all things are 
possible to Him, because all His Inclinations and purposes are submitted to the inclinations and 
purposes of the MOST HIGH.

Q. But it is added lastly, Howbeit, this kind goes not out but by prayer and fasting — what 
instruction do you learn from these words?

A. By these words JESUS CHRIST would teach the importance and necessity of two other 
Christian duties, in addition to the grace of a divine faith, one of which He calls prayer, and the 
other fasting;, and He would further instruct us, that there are certain assaults from the powers of
darkness, which cannot be successfully opposed, but by the combined force of those two duties.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the proper nature and meaning of those duties?

- 85-

A. By prayer, as the term is usually applied in the sacred Scriptures, I am to understand an 
opening of the interiors of the human mind towards heaven and its GOD, by virtue of a devout 
desire implanted by the ALMIGHTY to become partaker of His life, and to enter into the 
blessedness of an eternal conjunction with Him in love: and by fasting, I am further to 
understand a closing of the exteriors of the mind against the deceitful and insinuating delights of 
the senses, by denying the concupiscencies of the world and the flesh, which would intrude 
themselves under the semblance of real and substantial goods. Fasting indeed is often limited to 
a more confined meaning, as implying only an occasional abstinence from particular kinds of 
bodily food, and in some cases from all food; but according to the most general acceptance of the
term, it denotes not only abstinence from bodily food, but from mental also, which latter 
abstinence consists in denying to the mind its favourite external gratifications, whenever they 
interfere with the internal superior and spiritual joys of the immortal soul. Prayer and fasting are 
accordingly joined together by the BLESSED JESUS as Christian duties, because whilst the former 
opens the mind towards heaven, and renders it admissive of heavenly influence, the latter shuts 
the door against the powers of darkness, and thus prevents those powers from intruding upon and
disturbing the life, the peace, and the order of heaven, which enter in at the other door.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from this miracle?

A. By the literal sense of the miracle I learn an additional testimony in favour of the omnipotence
of the GREAT REDEEMER, and am thus led to a more profound adoration of Him as the ONLY GOD 
of heaven and earth. At the same time, from the spiritual sense of the miracle, I am instructed in 
several interesting particulars respecting that order of spiritual or regenerate life, which is 
prescribed to all Christians; as first, that when the knowledge of the truth is first admitted into 
the human understanding, it is frequently infested by false persuasions originating with the 
powers of darkness; secondly, that this infestation can only be successfully combated by faith in 
the INCARNATE GOD, or in the DIVINE HUMANITY of JESUS CHRIST; thirdly, that this faith is all-
powerful, insomuch that there is no mountain of evil, of difficulty, and of danger, which it cannot
remove, nor any noxious plant of erroneous persuasion, which it cannot cast into the sea; 
fourthly, that besides this grace of faith; the sincere Christian is gifted also with the two graces of
prayer and fasting, by the united aid of which he is enabled to control the powers of darkness, 
and gain victories over himself and them, which could not otherwise be effected. I am resolved, 
therefore, to cherish now on in my mind and life, above all other things, these three Christian 
graces of faith, of prayer, and of fasting, under a full confidence that through their aid I shall be 
enabled, not only to overcome all spiritual infestation in my understanding, but also to remove 
from my heart and life every opposing evil, and to surmount every difficulty and perplexity 
which would thwart me in my good purpose to become a regenerate Christian. Thus may I 
humbly hope to find realized in myself what is written in the above history, where it is said, the 
child was cured from that very hour, together with those other blessed words of my SAVIOUR 
GOD, nothing shall be impossible to you. AMEN.

- 86-

The Piece of Money Found in the Fish's Mouth

Matthew 17:24-the end.

And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received tribute-money came to Peter, and 
said, Does not your Master pay tribute? etc.

Q. WHAT do you understand here by the word tribute?

A. According to its literal sense it means a tax imposed by the Roman government on all those 
who were not Roman citizens, and thus free men; but according to the spiritual idea, by tribute is
to be understood a mark of servitude, and therefore, according to this idea, the inquiry, Does not 
your Master pay tribute, is an inquiry respecting the principles of servitude and of freedom, and 
who are the subjects of those principles.

Q. But it follows, that Peter replies to this question in the affirmative, saying, Yes; and that when 
he was come into the house, JESUS prevented him, saying, What think thou, Simon? of whom do 
the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? of their own children, or of strangers? — what 
instruction do you learn from these words?

A. From the letter of these words I learn that another inquiry was made, and this by JESUS 
CHRIST Himself, about custom or tribute, and of whom it is to be taken. I learn also from the 
same source a further proof of the divinity of JESUS CHRIST, as discoverable from this 
circumstance, that He was acquainted with the thoughts of Peter, and therefore, as it is said, 
prevented him, or, as it might be otherwise expressed, anticipated what he had to say. But from 
the spiritual sense of the words I am instructed, that JESUS CHRIST Himself suggests the 
important question to all true believers concerning servitude and freedom, which question leads 
to the interesting and edifying conclusion, that the spiritual principle in man is free, and intended 
to be so, but that the natural principle serves, and was created for that purpose. For it can never 
be supposed that the INCARNATE GOD would propose to His apostle Peter an inquiry, which had 
no deeper ground than an investigation concerning the right of taking custom or tribute, if 
nothing of a more spiritual nature had been involved in the inquiry. Accordingly this INCARNATE 
GOD testifies in another place, My words are spirit and life, (John vi. 63), but what spirit, or what
life is discoverable in the above question if it be conceived to relate only to the custom or tribute 
taken by the kings of the earth?

Q. But how does it appear that this inquiry leads to the conclusion, that the spiritual principle in 
man is free, and was intended to be so, but that the natural principle serves, and was created for 
that purpose?

A. This appears from the two terms here applied by JESUS CHRIST, namely. their own children 
and strangers, when spoken of the kings of the earth. For in the language and idea of the 
INCARNATE GOD, by kings of the earth are not here to be understood kings of the earth according 

- 87-

to the literal sense of the words, but according to the spiritual sense, agreeable to which latter 
sense, by kings of the earth, are to be understood the primary or principal truths of the church, 
for in the church all rule and dominion are derived from truths, and therefore all in the church, 
who are principled in truth, are called kings and princes in the sacred Scriptures. By the children 
then of these kings are to be understood all those in the church who receive truth into their minds
and lives, thus all who are spiritual-minded, whilst by strangers are to be understood all, who do
not admit truths into their minds and lives, thus who remain in a mere natural state, and are 
natural minded. When therefore Peter answered, of strangers; and when JESUS CHRIST replied, 
Then are the children free, the conclusion is plain, that the natural-minded pay tribute, or serve, 
but that the spiritual-minded are exempt from tribute, or are free.

Q. But the BLESSED JESUS continues his discourse in these words: Notwithstanding, lest we 
should offend them, go you to the sea, and cast a hook, and take the the fish that first comes up; 
and when you have opened his mouthy you shall find a piece of money; that take, and give to 
them for me and you — what further instruction do you derive from these words?

A. From the literal sense of these words, I am again led to adore the divine omnipotence of my 
GOD and SAVIOUR, together with His compassionate tenderness expressed in His willingness not 
to give offence. For in preparing a fish, which should supply a piece of money sufficient to 
answer the demands of those who received tribute, He gave a full and unequivocal demonstration
of divine omnipotence, and when He assigns as a reason for this, lest we should offend. He gives 
a proof equally positive of His compassionate tenderness leading Him to make all reasonable 
allowance for the customs and laws of civil society; as He says in another place, Render 
therefore, to Caesar the things which are Caesar's, (Matthew 22:21). But if the literal sense of 
the above words be thus edifying, how much more is their spiritual sense! For according to their 
spiritual sense they confirm, in terms the most significative, and by images the most striking and 
instructive, what has been above observed concerning the two principles, the natural and the 
spiritual, by proving that the former serves, but that the latter is free. The BLESSED JESUS 
therefore does not send His apostle into the street, as He might have done, to seek and to find a 
piece of money, nor does He send Him, as He might have clone with equal success, to borrow it 
of His neighbours, but He sends him to the sea, because the sea is a representative figure of the 
natural principle above referred to, agreeable to what was observed in the explanation of a 
former miracle, (Matthew 8:23 to 28). He bids him also cast a hook into this sea, and take up the
fish that first comes up, because both the hook and the fish were alike significative as the sea, the 
hook being significative of the power of apprehending, and the fish being significative of what 
was to be apprehended, namely. something of a scientific nature which had life in it, and which 
was accordingly distinct from the dead principle in which it originated, because it was not merely
natural, but by virtue of its connection; with a spiritual principle, or with some end of use, might 
be called spiritual-natural. In the mouth of this fish, therefore, was to be found a piece of money, 
(in the original a stater, which was a piece of silver), because a piece of money, or a piece of 
silver is a figure equally striking with the foregoing, of truth from a spiritual origin, to which a 
living principle of science, is ever open, and with which it is connected. For the principle of 
science in man may be either alive or dead, according to the end which it respects, and to which 
it is directed, being alive, if it respects an eternal end, but dead, if it; respects only a temporal 

- 88-

end. It is the living principle of science therefore, in which alone the piece of money is to be 
found, because it is only the living principle of science which is open to truth from a spiritual 
origin, and in connection with it. The BLESSED JESUS, then, would thus teach Peter, and with 
Peter all who are principled in evangelical faith, the necessity of consulting science, and of 
apprehending such scientific truths as have life in them, that they may thus find in those truths 
the piece of money requisite to satisfy the demands of the receivers of tribute; in other words, that
they may find truth from a spiritual origin requisite to prove that the spiritual principle in man, as
being from the GOD of heaven, is a free principle, but that the natural principle is born to serve. 
He therefore adds in conclusion, That take, and give for me and you. It is however impossible for
the careless and thoughtless reader to comprehend the above explanation of this interesting 
miracle, neither is it to be expected that the serious and well-disposed Christian will acquiesce 
and be perfectly satisfied with its reasonableness, unless he has previously weighed well in his 
mind the nature of divine speech, so as to discern that when GOD speaks, He annexes to His 
expressions ideas very different from those which man annexes to the same expressions. Thus, 
when GOD speaks, as in the above instance, of the sea, of a hook, of a fish, of a piece of money, 
and of giving this piece of money for Himself and His apostle, it is not to be supposed, because it 
is not reasonable to suppose, that by such language He designs to express the same sentiments 
which man would express by it, since GOD must of necessity annex to His language divine and 
spiritual ideas, as man annexes to his language human and natural ideas. In order then to 
comprehend in any degree the language of the ALMIGHTY, it is necessary that the mind of the 
hearer or reader become spiritual; in other words, become open to the perception of spiritual and 
eternal realities, as they are contained in and conveyed by natural and temporal images. Thus, 
and thus only, can it be expected that the mystery of the above miracle will become intelligible, 
and that the true ground and reason will be discovered why the INCARNATE GOD was pleased to 
send His apostle Peter to the sea, and there to cast in a hook, and take up the fish that first came 
up, and to open its mouth; and when he had found therein a piece of money, to take and give it 
for them both.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. From the letter, or literal sense of this miracle, I learn the edifying lesson, that the BLESSED 
JESUS, when he sojourned here on earth, paid respect to the laws and customs of civil society, 
insomuch that He worked a miracle to satisfy the demands of those laws and customs, and thus 
gave an example to all His followers, never to give offence on such occasions. But from the 
spirit, or spiritual sense of the same history, I receive additional instruction, and this on a point of
the utmost importance to be well understood, namely. what principle in man is free, and what 
principle serves; and that the spiritual principle in man is of the former description, and the 
natural principle is of the latter. I am instructed yet further, that when GOD speaks to man, He 
always annexes divine and spiritual ideas to all His expressions, so that when He applies, as in 
the case of this miracle, the natural terms sea, a hook, a fish, a piece of money, He applies them 
in a sense very different from that in which man applies them, because He uses them as natural 
images expressive of His own all-wise, instructive and divine sentiments. I am resolved therefore
to attend well to the above interesting lessons of heavenly instruction, first, by distinguishing 
well in my own mind the two principles of freedom and of servitude, until I am led to exalt in 

- 89-

myself what is spiritual above what is natural; in other words, to exalt a spiritual end, spiritual 
objects, and spiritual goods, above natural ends, natural objects, and natural goods; and secondly,
by fixing deep in my mind the edifying persuasion, that all the words of GOD, though expressed 
according to natural language, must of necessity contain in them divine ideas, and that 
consequently when He employs natural images, as the sea, a hook, a fish, a piece of money, etc. 
he does not mean to express by them the mere natural things which they suggest to the natural 
mind of man, but those spiritual and eternal realities which relate to Himself and His everlasting 
kingdom. AMEN.

- 90-

Sight Restored a Second Time to Two Blind Men

Matthew 20:29-the end

And as they departed from Jericho, a great multitude followed Him; and behold, two blind men 
sitting by the way-side, when they heard that JESUS passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on 
us, O LORD, You Son of David, etc.

Q. YOU have already told me, in explaining the miracle recorded in Matthew 9:28-32, 
concerning two other blind men, what is to be understood by spiritual blindness, and by the 
recovery of spiritual light. Can you now inform me in what particulars the present miracle differs
from the former?

A. The difference between the two miracles appears to be grounded in the different kinds and 
degrees of intellectual blindness, and of the recovery of intellectual sight, figured and 
represented, in each miracle. For, as there are different kinds and degrees of spiritual good and 
spiritual evil, and as those kinds and degrees have reference in general to good or evil in the 
human will, and to good or evil in the human understanding, in like manner, and for the same 
reason, there are different kinds and degrees of spiritual blindness, which is nothing else but 
spiritual ignorance and error, and also different kinds and degrees of restoration to spiritual sight,
which is nothing else but deliverance from spiritual ignorance and error. Accordingly, there is a 
blindness originating in the understanding, in consequence of false principles and persuasions 
which have been imbibed by education; and there is also a blindness originating in the will, in 
consequence of hereditary and natural evil, indisposing man for the reception of heavenly truth, 
and thus for the restoration of spiritual sight. Suffice it then to observe, that it appears not 
improbable that the two blind men, recorded in the former miracle, were intended to figure and 
represent the blindness of the Jewish church, so far as it originated in the understanding, and in 
the false principles and persuasions inseminated therein by education; whereas the two blind 
men, in the present instance, were intended to figure and represent the blindness of the same 
church, as originating in the will, through the prevalence of hereditary and actual evil. And that 
all this is not improbable, will appear from considering the peculiar circumstances attending each
miracle, as first; that the two blind men in the former miracle addressed the BLESSED JESUS only 
as the Son of David, whereas in the present miracle, they address Him as the LORD, the Son of 
David; secondly, that in, the former miracle JESUS says to the blind men, Believe you that I am 
able to do this? whereas in the present miracle; He says, What will you that I should do to you? It
deserves also to be remarked, that in the former miracle the two blind men are described as 
following JESUS, whereas in the present miracle they are described as sitting by the way side. 
From these distinct circumstances then it is not unreasonable to conclude, that the former miracle
had more relation to blindness originating in the understanding, and the present miracle more to 
blindness originating in the will. For when the BLESSED JESUS is called LORD, it is always in 
reference to the divine good of His divine love, and of course has more relation to the will, than 
to the understanding; and when He asks in one case. Believe you that I am able to do this? and in
the other case, What will you that I should do to you? it is evident that in the former instance He 

- 91-

addresses Himself to the understanding, and in the latter to the will. The same remark will apply 
to the two expressions, following JESUS, and sitting by the way side, because the term sitting is 
uniformly applied in the sacred Scriptures to a state of the will or love, and the term following (or
walking after) to the understanding or thought.

Q. Do you conceive then that the sight restored in the one instance differed from the sight 
restored in the other instance?

A. Yes; it is reasonable to suppose that there are different degrees of spiritual sight, as well as of 
spiritual blindness, and that the differences in each case depend on the principle in which the 
blindness or the sight originates, whether it be the principle of the will or of the understanding. 
For if the sight originates merely in the understanding, and the will or love has no part in it, it is 
then formed merely from the light of truth, and of course sees and judges of things only from that
light, and thus becomes the sight which may properly be called conscience, or the sight of what 
is right and true; whereas if the sight originates in the will or love, it is then formed not only from
the light of truth, but from the relish of what is good, in which case it becomes a sight of another 
and a higher order, which may be called perception, consisting not only in the knowledge of 
what is right and true, but in the love and ardent desire of conjunction of life with the SUPREME 
GOOD. These two distinct kinds of sight may be illustrated by their application to the spiritual 
view which every man has in his mind of the DIVINE BEING. As for example, he who regards the 
DIVINE BEING merely from the light of truth in his understanding, regards Him, and cannot help 
regarding Him, either as a severe Judge, or as a powerful King, or as what is called by the 
Psalmist, The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle; whereas he who regards the 
DIVINE BEING from the will or love, sees Him no longer as a severe Judge, or as a mighty King, 
etc. etc.. but as a kind Friend, as a tender Father, as an affectionate Bridegroom and Husband. 
Thus in the one case the DIVINE BEING is viewed more as to His external or apparent qualities 
and character; whereas in the other, case He is viewed more as to His internal and, real qualities 
and character; for in the one case nothing is seen but His divine wisdom, truth, power, etc. etc, 
whereas in. the other case the intellectual eye is opened to the more delightful and edifying 
perception of His essential mercy, love, compassion, and never-ceasing benevolence. And what is
thus true in regard to the sight of the Divine Being, is true likewise in regard to the views which 
different men have of His HOLY WORD, and also of their fellow-men, since they, who see from the
understanding only, discern nothing in the WORD OF GOD but its truths, and nothing in their 
fellow-men but their intellectual talents; whereas they, whose eyes are open to see from the will 
or love, discover in the WORD of GOD, not only its truths, but its infinitely varied goods; and in 
their fellow-men, not only their intellectual talents, but those higher and more interior qualities of
the heart, which connect man with GOD, and qualify him for the enjoyment of eternal happiness. 
Perhaps, therefore, it is not an improper idea to suppose, that the ALMIGHTY is ever in the act of 
restoring the blessing of spiritual sight to His blind children, because the sight, to which any of 
His children may have attained, howsoever clear and distinct it may appear, is but blindness, 
when compared with that to which they may attain, and which their HEAVENLY FATHER is 
preparing for them. Q. What then is the general instruction which you gather from this miracle?

- 92-

A. I am taught by this miracle again to adore that omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, which 
was a second time manifested in the restoration of sight to the blind. I am instructed also, by the 
same miracle, to distinguish all spiritual sight, or sight of the mind, into two kinds, namely. sight 
from the understanding, and sight from the will, and to see that the latter sight is beyond 
comparison more excellent, more extended, more perfect, and more blessed than the former. I am
resolved, therefore, to apply to my GOD and SAVIOUR, with all possible earnestness for the 
invaluable blessing of spiritual sight, that so I may no longer be blind to the view of what so 
infinitely concerns me to see, viz. GOD, His WORD, His kingdom, and His peace. And since this 
spiritual sight is capable of indefinite improvement, especially when it is elevated and quickened 
by the will or love, I am resolved further never to rest satisfied with mere intellectual sight, 
which is formed from the light of truth alone, but to pass forward to the attainment of that higher 
and more celestial sight, which is derived from the love of GOD and of my neighbour, and by 
virtue of which I may be qualified to behold my GOD, not only as He appears, but as He is, and 
my neighbour, not only as to his external form and character, but as to those eternal qualities 
which make Him a child of GOD and an inheritor of His blessed kingdom. Thus may I hope to 
find verified in myself what is said concerning the blind men of old, where it is written, So JESUS
had compassion on them, and touched their eyes; and immediately their eyes received sight, and 
they followed Him. AMEN.

- 93-

The Barren Fig-Tree Cursed

Matthew 21:18 to 21

Now in the morning as He returned into the city, he hungered. And when He saw a fig-tree in the 
way, He came to it, and found nothing thereon but leaves only, and said to it, Let no fruit grow 
on you henceforward for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by the morning, by returning into the city, and by hungering?

A. By the morning, according to the spiritual idea, is to be understood the LORD'S advent, since as
the natural sun rises in the natural morning, to dispense his blessings of heat and light to the 
natural world, which, if deprived of those blessings, must perish, in like manner in the spiritual 
morning, the spiritual sun, which is the Sun of righteousness, rises, to dispense also His blessings
of spiritual heat and light to the inhabitants of that world, who must otherwise perish in spiritual 
cold and darkness. It is therefore said, as He returned into the city, because by He is meant the 
BLESSED JESUS, by the city the church, and by returning into the city, His advent to the church, 
for the purpose of instructing, of reforming, of purifying, and of saving it. It is therefore added, 
He hungered, because by hunger, on this occasion, is not to be understood natural hunger only, 
but spiritual hunger, which, when predicated of the BLESSED JESUS, denotes His ardent and 
divine desire that His church, or people, may become receptive of all the good and blessing of 
His divine mercy and love.

Q. And what do you understand further by the fig-tree which He saw in the way, and by His 
coming to it, and finding nothing thereon but leaves?

A. According to the letter of the history, these words are to be understood literally, because they 
were literally true; but according to the spiritual sense which is involved in this, and in all other 
parts of the gospel history, they are to be understood spiritually; and according to their spiritual 
interpretation, they add a weight of importance and of instruction to a circumstance, which must 
otherwise appear too trifling to be recorded in the pages of the ETERNAL TRUTH.

Q. And in what do you conceive does the importance and instruction of the above circumstance, 
according to its spiritual interpretation, consist?

A. This question can only be answered by the consideration of what is properly signified by a 
fig-tree in the language of Revelation, and by the discovery that, like all other trees, it denotes 
some spiritual principle belonging to the church, and specifically the principle of natural good, 
by which good is not to be understood the good into which man is born, or which he receives 
hereditarily from his parents, but the good received in the natural principle from a spiritual 
origin. Accordingly we find frequent mention made in the sacred Scriptures of the fig-tree, both 
singly, and in connection with other trees, in all which cases, agreeable to its spiritual 
interpretation, it figures and represents the good above referred to. Thus it is written concerning 
the perverse church, "I will surely consume them, says the LORD: there shall be no grapes on the 

- 94-

vine, nor figs on the fig-tree, and the leaf shall fade, (Jer. 8:13); again, I found Israel like grapes 
in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the first-ripe in the fig-tree, at her first time, (Hosea 
9:10); again, Fear not, O land; be not afraid, you beasts of the field, for the pastures of the 
wilderness do spring, for the tree bears her fruit, the fig-tree and the vine do yield their strength, 
(Joel 2:21, 22); again, They shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, and none 
shall make them afraid, (Micah 4:4); in all which passages, and in many more which might be 
mentioned, by fig-tree, is not signified fig-tree, but the natural good above spoken of, which it 
figures and represents. Hence then the fig-tree in the present instance, as being without fruit, is 
representative of the Jewish church at that period, as being destitute of natural good; and 
therefore by JESUS seeing it is spiritually signified divine inspection into the state of the Jewish 
church as to that good; and by His coming to it, and finding nothing thereon but leaves only, is 
further denoted divine discovery that all truth was falsified in that church, for the leaves of a 
barren fig-tree are significative of such falsified truth.

Q. But it is written that JESUS said to it, Let no fruit henceforward grow on you for ever — how 
do you understand these words?

A. By JESUS saying to it is to be understood divine judication concerning the church in which 
was no natural good, and nothing but truth falsified; and by His saying, Let no fruit grow on you 
henceforward for ever, is further to be understood that the Jewish nation, which is here described 
by the fig-tree, as being destitute of natural good, would always remain so, and therefore would 
for ever continue in the same disposition to falsify truth, which prevailed in them at that time,

Q. And what do you conceive to be meant by the concluding words, where it is written, And 
presently the fig-tree withered away. And when the disciples saw it, they marvelled, saying, How 
soon is the fig-tree withered away?

A. According to the letter, or literal sense of the history, by the fig-tree withering away, is to be 
understood its being deprived of life, and consequently of all power of growth and fruitfulness; 
but according to the spiritual sense, by the fig-tree withering away is representatively described 
the future state of the Jewish nation, as being deprived for ever of spiritual life, or of the power 
of spiritual growth and fruitfulness; and by the disciples marvelling on this occasion, is further to
be understood their astonishment at the thought that any nation could be so extremely wicked 
and foolish, as to deprive themselves of the capacity of receiving and bringing forth the fruit of 
the ETERNAL TRUTH, and of thus connecting themselves with the SUPREME GOOD, and with all the
happiness of His everlasting kingdom. The same thing is equally marvelous at this day, and must 
therefore excite the astonishment of all true disciples; and yet it cannot be denied that if selfish 
and worldly love are suffered to take possession of men's minds, and thus to prevent the 
insemination and growth of revealed truth, they then become like the Jewish nation of old, and 
are awfully figured by the barren jig-tree in the above history, which withered away under divine
inspection and judication.

- 95-

Q. But it is written in the gospel according to St. Mark, (Mark. 11:13), in recording this miracle, 
that the time of figs was not yet — was it not then unreasonable to expect to find fruit on a tree 
before the season was arrived for bearing fruit?

A. According to the literal sense of this history, there is such an appearance of unreasonableness 
as you hint at, and this is a proof how necessary it is, in many cases, to reconcile the sense of the 
letter by the spiritual sense which is involved in it, and for the sake of which the letter was given.
For all this appearance of unreasonableness vanishes, as soon as ever the history is interpreted 
according to its internal spiritual signification, by viewing it not as the history merely of a fig-
tree which was without fruit, but as the history of a people destitute of spiritual life. For if it be 
regarded merely as the history of a fig-tree, all that JESUS CHRIST said and did on the occasion 
will appear as the result of bodily hunger only, and of indignation at not being able to gratify it, 
and thus when He cursed the tree, it will be difficult to acquit Him of the charge of something 
worse than unreasonableness, especially when it is considered that the season of the year, rather 
than any fault in the fig-tree, rendered His expectations vain. But if the history be regarded as a 
figurative history, describing, under the emblem of a barren tree, a lifeless people dead in 
trespasses and sins, the whole then will be found reconcileable to every idea both of justice and 
of reason, and even the declaration that the time of figs was not yet, will then no longer be urged 
as an objection to the credibility of the history. For when it is said, that the time of figs was not 
yet, the words are to be interpreted according to their spiritual meaning, like those of the other 
parts of the history, and agreeable to such interpretation, they mean only that the church was not 
yet commenced, the fig-tree being a figure of such commencement, according to what is said in 
the parable of the fig-tree, (Matthew 24:32, 33). Thus it is evident how necessary it is to explore 
the internal spiritual sense of the LORD'S words, in order to reconcile the apparent inconsistencies
and contradictions of the letter.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from this miracle of the barren fig-
tree?

A. I learn, from the letter of this miracle, to adore that divine power and operation, which 
communicates life even to vegetable nature, and suspends and removes that life at pleasure. And 
from the spiritual sense of this history, I learn a further lesson of edifying wisdom, by which I am
taught that JESUS CHRIST, under external figures, both of animals and of plants, describes 
spiritual principles relating to Himself, His church and kingdom. I am instructed yet further, by 
the above interesting history, to reflect on the awful situation of a people destitute of all natural 
good, and having no show of religion but the mere leaves of speculative opinions and doctrinal 
tenets, whilst they are totally withered away as to all the life and fruit of heavenly love and 
charity. I am resolved, therefore, to profit by this awful example, and for this purpose to take 
heed to myself, that when my LORD comes and seeks fruit, He may find in me something more 
than leaves. Thus may I hope never to have the terrible sentence pronounced against me, Let no 
fruit grow on you henceforward for ever, but rather to hear the blessed promise, He shall be like 
a tree planted by the rivers of water, which brings forth his fruit in due season. AMEN.

- 96-

- 97-

 
The Miraculous Draught Of Fishes

Luke 5:4-12

Now when He had left speaking, He said to Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let down your 
nets for a drain. And Simon answering, said to Him, Master, we have toiled all the night, and 
have taken nothing; nevertheless at your word I will let down the net, etc.

Q. What do you here understand by JESUS saying to Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let 
down your nets for a drain?

A. According to the sense of the letter, the injunction of JESUS to Simon, on this occasion, relates 
to the catching of fish, and to the extraordinary success, which would attend his obedience to the 
divine command. But according to the spiritual sense involved in every particular of this history, 
the above words have relation to another sort of fishes, namely. to that of which the prophet 
speaks, where he writes, Behold, I will send for many fishers, says the LORD, and they shall fish 
them, (Jer. 16:16). This spiritual fishing is also expressly spoken of in the history under 
consideration, where it is written, that JESUS said to Simon? Fear not, from now on you shall 
catch men. According then to the spiritual sense of this history, the above words relate to the 
methods most expedient for the catching of men; in other words, for instructing them in 
evangelical truths, and thus enclosing them in that spiritual net mentioned in the parable, and of 
which it is said, The kingdom of heaven is like a net cast into the sea, which gathers of every 
kind, (Matthew 13:47).

Q. And in agreement with this spiritual idea of fishing and of a net, what do you conceive to be 
meant by the divine command, to launch out into the deep, and to let down nets for a drain?

A. By the deep is here spiritually to be understood the abyss of the natural and sensual affections 
and thoughts of mankind, thus all who are under the influence of such affections and thoughts; 
and by launching out into the deep, and letting down nets for a drain, is further to be under stood
application to persons of such a character, together with such an accommodation of heavenly 
truths to their capacity of apprehension, that they may be persuaded to believe, and may thus be 
introduced into the Christian church.

Q. But it is written that Simon answering, said, Master, we have toiled all the night, and have 
taken nothing; nevertheless at your word I will let down the net — what do you understand by 
these words?

A. According to their spiritual meaning, these words teach a lesson of weighty instruction to all 
those, who, like Simon, are called to the high office of catching men; for they teach that whilst 
man toils in the night of his own self-will and self-love, unenlightened by divine wisdom, and 
unsupported by divine power, his labour is vain, and he takes nothing; but no sooner does he 
renounce his own will and wisdom, to place himself under the guidance and government of 
revealed truth, and it's GOD, than he also, like the fishermen in the history, is successful in his 

- 98-

labours, so as to enclose a great multitude of fishes; in other words, to introduce a great 
multitude of men to the knowledge and love of the INCARNATE GOD, and His HOLY WORD.

Q. You are perfectly right in your interpretation, but how will you reconcile it with what next 
follows, where it is written, that their net break?

A. By the net breaking, according to the spiritual idea of a net, as above explained, is to be 
understood a want of coherence in the truths or doctrines of which the spiritual net is composed, 
For when man first commences a spiritual fishery by endeavouring to instruct others in the great 
truths of the gospel, he generally begins to teach from his understanding enlightened and 
enriched with heavenly knowledge, more than from his will, or from the influence of heavenly 
love and charity, in which case the net always breaks, because nothing gives to truth its proper 
consistence and coherence, but the good of heavenly love and life from which it is derived. 
Accordingly JESUS CHRIST, on another occasion, requires His disciples to cast the net on the 
right side of the ship, (John 21:6), because, as was observed in the explanation of a former 
miracle, by the right side, when distinguished from the left, is represented and signified the 
above principle of heavenly good of love and charity. The necessity and benefit of this principle 
is also proved from what immediately follows, where it is written, That they beckoned to their 
partners who were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came and 
filled both the ships, so that they began to sink.

Q. How do these words prove the necessity and the benefit of the principle of love and charity, to
make the spiritual fisher, or to enable Him to teach spiritual truths to advantage?

A. By the partners here spoken of, which were in the other ship, are meant James and John, the 
sons of Zebedee, as appears from ver. 10 of this chapter, and by James and John, as was shown in
treating of the miracle of the transfiguration, are figured and represented charity and the works of
charity, and therefore by beckoning to them for their assistance is to be understood supplication 
for the aid of those heavenly principles; that so the understanding might no longer operate under 
the influence of mere speculative doctrines, but might submit itself to the guidance and 
government of the SUPREME GOOD, and thus of the DIVINE FATHER of all good. For such is the 
case in regard to the great work of regeneration, whether it relate to the church in general, or to 
an individual member of the church in particular, that it must commence with instruction, which 
is a kind of spiritual fishing, since without instruction there can be no regeneration. But all 
instruction, at its commencement, is in the way of truth or knowledge imparted to the 
understanding, nor at that period is the necessity seen of consulting the higher principles of 
heaven-born love and charity, by seeking their co-operation. This necessity, however, is soon 
discovered by the breaking of the net, which is a certain consequence of the separation of truth 
and its doctrine from their parent good, for when this is the case, truth and its doctrine must of 
course want coherence and consistency. At this period then it is, that an inversion of the state 
takes place, so that speculative knowledge is no longer allowed to have the preeminence, but is 
compelled to submit itself to the guidance and government of higher principles, which are in 
nearer connection with GOD and His kingdom.

- 99-

Q. But it is said on this occasion, that both the ships, token they were thus filled, began to sink —
how do you reconcile the sinking of the ships with what you have been saying concerning 
heavenly love and charity, which might have been expected to preserve both the ships, and those 
who were in them from such a calamity?

A. We have here an additional proof of the divine wisdom contained under the letter of the sacred
Scriptures, and of the necessity of exploring that wisdom in order to rescue the sacred volume 
from the charge of being, in some instances, trifling and insignificant. For, separate from its 
internal spiritual meaning, what can be the importance of the information here given, that both 
the ships began to sink? It is necessary then to consider, and to consider attentively, what is here 
to be understood by a ship beginning to sink, and why a circumstance so apparently trivial 
should be thought worthy to be recorded in the Book of Revelation. For from such consideration,
aided by the light of the ETERNAL TRUTH, we shall be enabled to discover, that by the two ships 
here spoken of, which were filled with fishes, is figuratively described the LORD'S new church, as 
to the knowledges of good and of truth, at that time about to be established, and that by their 
beginning to sink is figuratively and forcibly represented the effect of evil in that church, which, 
at the time, was not subdued and removed. For all evil, it is well known, is in its proper nature 
heavy, and inclined to sink, because it has always a tendency to decline downwards from GOD, by
immersing itself in the unclean and earthly loves of self and of the world. The effect therefore of 
this evil is here recorded, in order to teach the salutary lesson, that it is not sufficient for the 
church and its members to be instructed in heavenly knowledge, and to join to that instruction 
heavenly inclinations, unless they go on to apply that knowledge and their good desires to the 
removal of evil, by searching out and combating all the concupiscencies of selfish and worldly 
love. For until this evil be removed, the ship must sink; but no sooner is that dead weight 
separated from the sinking vessel, than it presently rises again above all the waves of trial and of 
danger, and pursues its steady and secure course to the haven of peace. There are therefore three 
things more especially necessary for man's salvation: 1st, Instruction, which is here signified by 
letting down the net for a drain. 2dly, Charity, or the affection of good, resulting from 
instruction, and here figured by beckoning to their partners, who were in the other ship, to come 
and help them. And 3dly, the Application of both to the discovery and removal of evil, which evil 
is here represented by the ships beginning to sink.

Q. How then do you understand the words which follow, where it is written, When Simon Peter 
saw it, he fell down at JESUS's knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O LORD?

A. These words confirm the idea above suggested concerning the manifestation of evil, as an 
effect resulting from instruction in truth, and from the reception of the affection of good which 
the truth inspires. For the words are evidently words of deep humiliation, under a feeling sense of
disorderly and evil propensities, which had not before been discovered, on which occasion it is 
remarkable that Peter says to his LORD, Depart from me. For such is the effect of the first 
manifestation of evil in the penitent bosom, that it causes pain, which pain is supposed to result, 
not so much from the evil manifested, as from the heavenly light by which it is manifested, and 
therefore the sinner is led to supplicate at the time the removal of that light, until he is further 
instructed that his own corrupt propensities, and not the light, are the cause of his suffering. Thus

- 100-

the history of Simon Peter, in this instance, is a history of the church, in all ages and places, 
whether amongst nations or individuals, describing its commencement, its progress, and its 
maturity; its commencement, by instruction in the knowledge of heavenly truth, its progress, by 
the conjunction of truth with its good, and its maturity, by leading to deep humiliation before 
JESUS CHRIST, resulting from a sense of hereditary and actual evil.

Q. But it is written, that JESUS said to Simon, Fear not; from now on you shall catch men — how 
do you understand these words?

A. According to the spiritual idea of this miracle, as above unfolded, by JESUS saying to Simon, 
Fear not, is to be understood the communication of divine strength and confidence, suggesting 
the consolatory persuasion that man has nothing to fear from evil, whenever it is made manifest, 
and is regarded according to its proper nature, as contrary to GOD and His righteousness, since 
evil is only to be dreaded when it conceals itself, and is not seen in its proper colours of 
malignity and mischief. It therefore follows in the way of consolation, from hereforth you shall 
catch men, for to catch men, according to the spiritual idea, is to attain to wisdom and 
intelligence, as is always the case, whenever the natural evils of selfish and worldly love are seen
and removed, under the influence of heavenly truth and heavenly good; Agreeable then to the 
spiritual idea, there are two kinds of fishing proper to the church in general, and to every 
individual of the church in particular, viz. first, the apprehension of truth in the way of science or
knowledge, both in the memory and under standing; and secondly, the apprehension of truth as a 
principle of life in the will or love, leading to the discovery and rejection of all evil, because it is 
contrary to GOD, and leading further to the love and practice of all that is wise and good, because 
it is pleasing to GOD, and conducts to eternal conjunction with Him. The former apprehension of 
truth is distinguished by catching fish, and the latter by catching men.

Q. And what instruction do. you learn from the concluding words of this miracle, where it is said,
That when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all, and followed Him?

A. According to the literal sense of these words, they teach the edifying lesson, that when Simon 
Peter and his partners James and John brought their ships to land, they forsook both their ships 
and all their other property, that they might become the companions of the BLESSED JESUS . But 
according to the spiritual sense, the above words teach a lesson still more edifying, namely. that 
they who are represented by Peter, by James, and by John; in other words, they who are 
principled in faith, in charity, and in works of charity, when they have brought their ships to land,
or, what amounts to the same, when they are advanced from a state of truth to the good of truth, 
submit their will and their wisdom entirely to the guidance and control of the divine will and 
wisdom of JESUS CHRIST, and thus follow Him In the regeneration, until they become His 
purified children, and meet for introduction into His heavenly kingdom. For by forsaking all is 
not to be understood the alienation of worldly property, such as houses, lands, and riches, but the 
renunciation of mental possessions, such as the faculties of loving, of understanding, of judging, 
etc. etc.; and by following JESUS is not to be understood association with Him merely as to 
person, but conjunction as to mind, consisting in the humble grateful acknowledgement that all 

- 101-

the above faculties are from Him, and therefore His, thus that they ought to be submitted 
continually to His holy government and guidance. 

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above miracle?

A. From its literal history I am again taught to adore that omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, 
which exercises a control even over the living creatures inhabiting the depths of the sea. But 
from the spiritual sense of that history, I am taught a lesson still more extended and edifying, 
because I am instructed that it is the will of JESUS CHRIST, that all His children should become 
spiritual fishers; in other words, that they should collect natural or scientific truths, as the means 
of accommodating spiritual truths to the apprehension of the natural or scientific man. I learn 
further, that in this descent into natural knowledge or science, there is a danger lest the net 
should break, or, what amounts to the same, lest truth should lose its consistence and coherence, 
by being separated from the higher principles of heavenly love and life, and that therefore it is 
necessary to consult with and exalt those principles on the occasion. I am instructed yet further, 
that notwithstanding all attainments in knowledge, and in the heavenly affections to which it 
conducts, the ship will still sink, unless that knowledge and those affections be applied to the 
discovery and removal of the natural evils of self-love and the love of the world. Lastly, I learn, 
that when natural evils are thus made manifest and subdued, the ship is then brought to land, on 
which occasion the true disciples, or they who are principled in faith, in charity, and in the works 
of charity, forsake all and follow JESUS ; in other words, renounce their own natural will and 
wisdom, that at all times they may consult and obey the will and wisdom of their HEAVENLY 
FATHER. I am resolved, therefore, to attend well to the above divine instruction, by applying 
myself to the attainment of scientific truth, and by taking good heed lest in this application I 
should at any time separate truth from its good, or knowledge from the life of knowledge, and 
lest thus my net should break. I am resolved further to apply both truth and its good to the 
exploration and rejection of all my natural evils of selfish and worldly love, that so my ship may 
be prevented from sinking, and being brought safe to land, I may arrive at the high honour and 
happiness of imitating the disciples of old, by forsaking all and following JESUS. AMEN.

- 102-

The Widow's Son Raised

Luke vii. 12 to 18

Now when He came near to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the 
only son of his mother, and she was a widow; and much people of the city was with her, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by this dead man who was carried out, the only son of his 
mother, and she was a widow?

A. According to the letter of the history, by the dead man here recorded is to he understood the 
dead body of a man, and by his being the only son of his mother, who was a widow, is further to 
be understood what is literally expressed in those words. But by this dead man, according to the 
spiritual sense involved in this and in all other miracles worked by JESUS CHRIST, is to be 
understood a dead principle in the church, which principle is here called the only son of his 
mother, who was a widow, and therefore denotes the principle of faith or truth, this being the 
first-born of the church, which church is here called mother, as giving birth, through divine 
operation, to all heavenly principles ; and widow, as being deprived of the principles of truth, and
yet in the desire of conjunction with it.

Q. How do you prove that the terms mother and widow have relation to the church.?

A. That the term mother has relation to the church, is evident from the following passages in the 
sacred Scriptures, as in Isaiah, "Where is the bill (or book) of your mother's divorcement, whom I
have put away?" Isa. l. i; and in Jeremiah, "Your mother shall be sore confounded she that bare 
you shall be ashamed," Jer. 1. 12 and in Ezekiel, "You are your mother's daughter, that loatheth 
her husband and her children? Ezek. 16:45; and in Luke, " My mother and my children are these
which hear the word of God and do it" Luke. 8:21: and that the term widow has also relation to 
the church, which is in the affection of good, but in the defect of truth, is evident from the 
following passages, as in the Psalms, " A Father of the father less, and a Judge of the widows" 
Ps. 68:5; and in Isaiah, " Judge the fatherless, plead for the widow, Is. 1:17; and in Luke, " I till 
you of a truth, many widows were in Israel, in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up 
three years and six months, when great famine was throughout the land; but to none of them was 
Ettas sent save to Sarepta a city of Zidon, to a woman that was a widow" Luke 4:25, 26, not to 
mention many other passages, where widow is mentioned with the fatherless and the sojourner, 
because by widow are meant those who are principled in good, yet without truth; and by the 
fatherless, those who are principled in truth without good; and by the sojourner, those who want 
instruction both in good and truth.

Q. But it is written that when the LORD saw her, He had compassion on her, and said to her, Weep
not — how do you understand these words?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words relate to the BLESSED JESUS and to the 
distressed mother, whose history is here recorded; but according to their spiritual sense, they 

- 103-

relate to the BLESSED JESUS and to the church, of which this distressed mother was a 
representative figure, and to the resurrection of the principle of truth in that church, from death to
life. According, therefore, to this latter sense of the words, by the LORD seeing her is denoted 
divine inspection into the state of that church, thus a communication of divine wisdom; and by 
His having compassion on her, is denoted divine mercy, and a communication of that mercy; and 
by His saying to her, Weep not, is further denoted the application of divine wisdom and mercy, 
for the removal of what caused trouble, namely. the removal of dead intelligence by the 
resurrection of living knowledge and truth in its place.

Q. And how do you understand the words which follow, where it is written, that He came and 
touched the bier, and they that bare him stood still; and He said, Young man, I say to you, Arise?

A. By JESUS coming, is to be understood divine presence with love; and by His touching the bier,
is to be understood further the communication of the divine truth with those external and natural 
persuasions, which contained in them lifeless or dead truths; and by those who bare him standing
still, is denoted a check given to the influence and operation of those natural and external 
persuasions; and by JESUS saying, Young man, I say to you, Arise, is lastly denoted the divine 
word and will of the ALMIGHTY, that the intelligence of truth should be restored in the church, by 
rescuing it from its connexion with unclean and earthly loves, and elevating it to conjunction 
with pure and heavenly loves.

Q. But it is added, that he that was dead sat up, and began to speak; and He delivered him to his 
mother --- how do you understand these words?

A. These words declare the effect of the divine omnipotent words of JESUS CHRIST, both in their 
literal and spiritual meaning; in their literal meaning, by announcing the resurrection of a dead 
man to life; and in their spiritual meaning by announcing the resurrection of the intelligence of 
truth in the church out of the evils in which it was dead, to a participation of the life of love and 
charity. According, therefore, to this latter sense, by the dead man sitting up, is to be understood 
the resurrection of the above Intelligence in the will or love, to which principle the term sitting 
has continual reference, whenever it occurs in the sacred scriptures; and by his beginning to 
speak, is further to be understood its resurrection in the under standing, to which principle the 
term speaking has reference, whenever it also occurs in the holy records. It is added, And He 
(JESUS ) delivered him to his mother, to teach the edifying lesson, that the intelligence of truth is 
a heavenly gift from the ALMIGHTY to His church, especially when it is raised out of the death of 
unclean and earthly loves, and elevated to life by conjunction with pure and heavenly loves.

Q. And what instruction do you derive from the concluding words of this miracle, where it is 
said, And there came a fear on all, and they glorified GOD, saying, That a great prophet is risen 
up among us, and that God has visited His people?

A. By the fear here spoken of is meant a holy awe and adoration, resulting from beholding the 
effect of the divine omnipotence; and it is called a great fear, to denote the effect produced in the 
will or love ; and by glorifying GOD, is further to be understood the effect produced in the 

- 104-

understanding or thought, leading to the devout acknowledgment that the resurrection from the 
dead, as above recorded, both in its natural and spiritual sense, was the result solely of the divine 
power and operation of the MOST HIGH. It is therefore added, that a great prophet is risen up 
among us, and that GOD has visited His people. because by a great prophet is meant JESUS 
CHRIST as to His HUMANITY, or as to the truth which He taught; and by GOD is to be understood 
His DIVINITY, thus the divine origin of that truth.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from this miracle?

A. From its literal sense and meaning, I learn again to adore the omnipotence of my GOD and 
SAVIOUR, manifested in the resurrection of a dead man to life; and not only His omnipotence, but 
His divine mercy and compassion, displayed in His tenderness towards a suffering mother and 
widow. But from the spiritual sense of the history, I am taught a lesson still more edifying and 
instructive, being led by it to the sight and acknowledgment of the same divine power exercised 
in the resurrection of truth in the church, from a state of death, whilst it is immersed in unclean 
loves, to a state of life, in its elevation to an eternal conjunction with its divine origin in the spirit
of love and charity. I am resolved, therefore, to profit by both the above views of the operation of
the divine omnipotence, and to believe that death, in every sense of the word, is under the 
absolute control of divine agency. I am resolved also mare especially to regard that agency as 
exercised in the interiors of my own mind, and particularly to supplicate its powerful aid, 
whenever I perceive in myself the intelligence of truth attaching itself to any defiled affection, 
and thus in danger of dying to its true and proper life, the life of heavenly love and charity. Thus 
may I humbly hope, that in all such spiritual death, the BLESSED JESUS will come and touch the 
bier, and say, as He said of old, Young man, I say to you, Arise; and thus, too, may I further hope 
that His blessed word will be accomplished, and that the intelligence of truth will be raised out of
every principle of death and defilement, to an eternal conjunction with Him, His life and purity. 
AMEN.

- 105-

The Woman Who Had A Spirit Of Infirmity

Luke 13:11-17

And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed 
together, and could in no wise lift up herself, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by a woman which had a spirit of infirmity?

A. According to the literal sense of the history, by the woman here recorded is meant a woman, 
possessed with an evil spirit, by reason of which possession her body was bowed down, and 
unable to raise itself; but according to the spiritual sense of the history, the miracle performed on 
this woman involves in it a meaning, which respects the LORD'S church and kingdom, like all the 
other miracles which have been already explained. Agreeable then to such spiritual 
interpretation, by the woman here spoken of Is represented the church as to the affection of truth, 
for it is the affection of truth which is a principal constituent of the church, and affection is 
always figured in the sacred Scriptures by a woman, as intelligence is by a man. When, therefore,
it is said of this woman, that she had a spirit of infirmity, it denotes, according to the spiritual 
idea, that the affection of truth in the church was in disorder, in consequence of being under the 
influence of infernal disorderly spirits; and when it is added, eighteen years, it is to denote the 
full state of trial and suffering which had been endured on this occasion; for by years are 
signified, not the periods of temporal duration only, but states of spiritual life, whether troublous 
or peaceable; and by the number eighteen is denoted a fullness of trial and suffering, because it 
results from the multiplication of the two numbers three and six into each other, and by the 
number three is spiritually denoted what is full and complete; and by the number six a state of 
trial and temptation, agreeable to what was observed concerning that number, in the explanation 
of the miracle of the transfiguration.

Q. But it is added concerning the above woman, that she was bowed together, and could in no 
wise lift up herself — how do you understand these words.?

A. According to their literal sense, the words relate to the bowing or bending of the woman's 
body, in consequence of her infirmity and inability to lift up herself; but according to the spiritual
sense, in which the words have reference to the church, by the woman being bowed together, is to
be understood that the affection of truth declined downwards, by being disposed to favour earthly
loves, in consequence of which declination, the principles of spiritual and natural life were 
confounded together and mixed, so that they could not be distinguished from each other; and by 
her not being able to lift up herself, is farther to be understood, that by reason of such declination
the affection of truth was incapable of elevating itself to an eternal end, that is to say, to GOD, His
HOLY WORD and kingdom. The history, therefore, here recorded, in its internal sense, has relation 
to that state both of the church, and of the individuals who compose it, in which the affection of 
truth, through the influence of disorderly spirits, is warped from its proper tendency upwards, by 
which it was designed to exalt GOD, His WORD and kingdom, and at the same time is bent 

- 106-

downwards towards selfish and worldly love, by such an impulse, as to be incapable of elevating 
itself to conjunction with that DIVINE BEING, whose child it is, and for whose glory it is 
communicated.

Q. And how do you understand the words which follow, where it is written, And when JESUS saw
her, He called her to Him, and said to her, Woman, you are loosed from your infirmity?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words relate to the miraculous cure of a bodily 
infirmity, through the word of the GREAT REDEEMER; but agreeable to the spiritual idea above 
suggested, they relate to the cure of a spiritual disorder by the same DIVINE WORD. According, 
therefore, to this spiritual idea, by JESUS seeing her (the woman), is to be understood His divine 
inspection into the state of the church immersed in earthly and unclean loves, and therefore 
figuratively described by the above woman, who was bowed down, and not able to lift up 
herself; and by His calling and saying to her, Woman, you are loosed from your infirmity, is 
further to be understood the energy and application of His DIVINE love and wisdom for the 
removal of the spiritual disorders which He discovered, calling having relation to the exercise of 
His love, and saying, to the exercise of His wisdom. It is added in the English translation of this 
passage, that He called her to Him, but these three last expressions do not occur in the original, 
in which it is only written, that He called and said, agreeable to a mode of expression common in
the sacred writings, where two terms are frequently applied, which appear to signify the same 
thing, when yet one has reference more to the principle of love in the will, and the other more to 
the principle of truth in the understanding, it being of the utmost importance to point out the 
interesting and edifying conjunction of those two principles.

Q. But it is added, that He laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and 
glorified GOD — what instruction do you learn from these words?

A. By JESUS laying His hands on her, according to the literal sense of the history, is to be 
understood the application of his bodily hands to the infirmity of a distressed woman.; but 
according to the spiritual sense, by laying his hand on her, is figured and represented the 
operation of the omnipotence of His DIVINE HUMANITY in liberating the church from connexion 
with the powers of darkness, and at the same time from those earthly affections, which bowed 
her down to the love of temporal things, and prevented her elevation to eternal objects. It 
therefore follows that immediately she was made straight, and glorified God, because by being 
made straight, or, as it might be otherwise expressed, being made erect, is spiritually meant the 
elevation of the will or love to an eternal end, thus to GOD, His word and kingdom; and by 
glorifying GOD is to be further under stood the devout acknowledgment that this elevation was 
owing solely to a divine power, thus to the omnipotence of the DIVINE HUMANITY of the BLESSED
JESUS.

Q. It is written that in consequence of this miracle, the ruler of the synagogue answered with 
indignation, because that JESUS had healed on the sabbath-day, and said to the people, There 
are six days in which men ought to work; in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the 
sabbath-day. The LORD then answered Him, and said, You hypocrite, does not each one of you on

- 107-

the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering? And ought not 
this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound, lo, these eighteen years, be 
loosed from this bond on the sabbath-day?. — what further instruction do you derive from this 
part of the history?

A. From the circumstance of its being the sabbath-day, when the BLESSED JESUS worked this and
other miracles, I am led to reflect on the reason of the preference which He gave to that day 
above others, for the manifestation of His omnipotence, and by such reflection I am led further to
the interesting discovery, that He selected that day for the performance of His mighty works on 
account of its most holy representation, as being figurative of the divine and heavenly marriage 
of good and truth, thus of the union of the divine and human natures in Himself, of His 
conjunction thereby with heaven and the church, and lastly of the conjunction of charity and faith
in man. For the mighty works which He performed consisted in general in the removal of bodily 
distemper and infirmity, by which distemper and infirmity was figured some perversion or other 
of the principles of good and of truth in the church, thus some breach of the heavenly marriage 
above spoken of, as represented by the sabbath-day. This day, therefore, was selected above the 
rest by reason of its holy representation, and as involving in it that state of purity and peace, the 
restoration of which He had principally in view in all the miracles which He performed. Here 
then may be seen the true ground and reason of the indignation expressed on this occasion by the
ruler of the synagogue. For this ruler, who is afterwards called by the LORD a hypocrite, was 
himself a subject of that very perversion of good and truth, which the BLESSED JESUS came to 
remove, and the removal of which was represented by the sabbath day, and therefore it was 
impossible for him to discover the reasonableness of the LORD'S conduct in this instance. We may
perceive at the same time the full force and meaning of the Lord's remonstrance on the occasion, 
when He says, Does not each of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, etc. for 
by this remonstrance, and the significant images which it contains, He meant to teach again the 
instructive lesson, that it is lawful to do good on the sabbath-day; in other words, that the 
sabbath-day, as being representative of the eternal conjunction of heavenly good and truth, is the 
fittest of all days for restoring every principle of the life of man to its proper liberty, for the 
healing of every infirmity, for instruction in the knowledge of natural good and truth, signified by
loosing the ox and the ass for watering, and especially for breaking the bands of wickedness, by 
which the spiritual affection of good and truth, that true daughter of Abraham in the human 
mind, is tied and bowed down, that it cannot raise itself up to the possession and enjoyment of 
GOD and His blessed kingdom.

Q. But it is written in the conclusion, that when He had said these things, all His adversaries 
were ashamed ; and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by Him — 
what do you learn from these words?

A. I learn to note and to adore the double effect of the DIVINE WORD, as manifested in its 
operation on its adversaries, and on its friends; on its adversaries, by unveiling to view their 
evils and their errors, and thus making them ashamed; and on its friends, by discovering to them 
a mercy and an omnipotence, or a goodness and truth ever near and at hand for the cure of all 
human infirmity, and thus increasing their joy. In this part of the history, therefore, I am enabled 

- 108-

to discover the necessity of His DIVINE WORD to effect the salvation of mankind, since without it,
there is no possibility either that evil or error can be detected, or that any good and truth of 
heaven can be imparted. Thus I am instructed further, that the WORD of GOD commences its 
salutary operations, first, by making man ashamed of himself and his corruptions, whilst he lives 
without GOD, and secondly, by filling him with all joy for all the glorious things done for him, 
when he becomes a convert to GOD, and a faithful receiver of His HOLY WORD.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. I learn again to adore the omnipotence of the GREAT SAVIOUR manifested in the cure of bodily 
infirmity, and in the removal of the evil spirit who caused it. At the same time I am instructed in 
the exercise of the same divine power for the cure of spiritual infirmity, and particularly of that 
spiritual depression, by which the human mind, in its captivity to the powers of darkness, is 
bowed and bended downwards towards the lower things of time and sense, so as to be unable to 
lift itself up to the contemplation and enjoyment of eternal objects, I learn further to discover the 
reason why the BLESSED JESUS dispensed His healing operation so frequently on the sabbath-
day, and thus to discern a connexion between that day, according to its representative meaning, 
and the cure of all spiritual diseases. I am resolved, therefore, from now on to apply to this 
GREAT SAVIOUR whenever I feel my affections declining downwards towards the lower concerns 
of time and sense, that so I may never be bowed down by the spirit of infirmity in such a manner 
as to be unable to lift up myself to higher and more substantial objects. I am resolved further to 
cherish in my mind a devout sense of the sanctity of the sabbath-day, by recollecting at all times 
its representative meaning, and how it is a perpetual standing figure here below, of the heavenly 
marriage, from which alone comes all true rest, peace, and deliverance from every spiritual 
disease and infirmity. I am resolved also frequently to read and meditate on the WORD OF GOD, 
until I become ashamed of all those evils and errors in myself, which are in opposition to its 
purities and its sanctities, and begin to feel a secret joy from the admission of all its heavenly 
goods and truths. Thus may I humbly hope to experience, like the distressed object in the above 
history, the power of that DIVINE WORD, which said of old, Woman, you are loosed from your 
infirmity; and thus, too, shall I no longer be of the number of the adversaries of the GREAT 
SAVIOUR, but rather rank in the number of those friends, of whom it is written, That they rejoiced
for all the glorious things that were done by Him. AMEN.

- 109-

The Dropsy Cured

Luke 14:1-7

And it came to pass, as He Went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the 
sabbath-day, that they watched Him. And behold, there was a certain man before Him which had
the dropsy, etc.

Q. YOU have already told me, in the explanation of a former miracle, what is figured and 
represented by the sabbath-day, and why, on account of that representation, the BLESSED JESUS 
worked so many of His miracles on that day, Can you now tell me what is here to be understood 
by a certain man which had the dropsy?

A. According to the letter of the history, by a certain man who had a dropsy, is meant one who 
was afflicted with a bodily distemper called by that name, and consisting in a super-abundance of
water formed in different parts of the body; but according to the spiritual sense contained in this, 
as in the other miracles which the LORD worked, by a certain man who had a dropsy, is figured 
the state of the Jewish church at that period, in its perversion of all heavenly good and truth, and 
particularly in this perversion, that natural knowledge had gained the ascendancy over spiritual, 
and that thus all spiritual life of love and charity was in danger of being destroyed by the 
superabundance of mere natural speculation and thought. For such is the correspondence 
between the natural distemper called the dropsy, and the spiritual perversion of heavenly good 
and truth here referred to, all the difference between them consisting in this, that the natural 
distemper is occasioned by a superfluity of natural water, whereas the perversion has its rise in a 
superfluity of what is signified and represented by water, namely. natural truth; in other words, 
truth apprehended naturally, and not spiritually. It is said of the above man who had the dropsy, 
that he was before him (Jesus), denoting, according to the spiritual idea, that the above perversion
of all heavenly good and truth in the Jewish church at that period was under divine inspection, 
being both seen and noted by the divine wisdom.

Q. But it is written on this occasion, that JESUS answering, spoke to the lawyers and Pharisees, 
saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath-day? — what do you conceive to be the force and 
meaning of the question here proposed by the BLESSED JESUS to the lawyers and Pharisees?

A. By this interesting question it would appear to be the LORD'S intention to call the lawyers and 
Pharisees, and through them all succeeding generations of mankind, to the very important 
consideration of the sabbath-day, both as to what it is in itself, as to what it figures and 
represents, and further as to the duties which it requires, that so it might be discovered, agreeable
to what was shown in explaining a former miracle, that the sabbath is in itself most holy, as being
representative of the divine and heavenly marriage of good and truth, and that therefore the 
duties which it requires are all such acts of mercy, of charity, of instruction, and of piety, etc. etc. 
as have a tendency to rescue man from the dominion of the powers of darkness and the influence 
of selfish and worldly love, that he may be at liberty to pursue and regain his lost life and 
happiness in the love and favour of His HEAVENLY FATHER.

- 110-

Q. Can you see any reason then why the BLESSED JESUS, without waiting for an answer to His 
question, immediately took the man, and healed him, and let him go?

A. It was not necessary for the BLESSED JESUS to be determined by the opinions of men as to the 
propriety of his own conduct, and therefore, without waiting to know the sentiments of the 
lawyers and Pharisees on the occasion, He gives the best possible answer Himself to His own 
question, by manifesting His mercy and omnipotence in the removal of bodily disease, proving 
thus that it was lawful to heal on the sabbath-day, because that the Son of Man is LORD also of 
the sabbath.

Q. And how do you understand the expressions by which this act of mercy and omnipotence is 
described — He took him and healed him, and let him go?

A. According to the literal sense of the letter, these expressions are to be understood literally, as 
relating to the man who had a dropsy; but according to the spiritual sense, they are to be 
understood spiritually, as relating to the perversion of good and truth in the church, or to the 
spiritual dropsy occasioned by a super-abundance of natural knowledge, and of proportionable 
defect of spiritual life; and agreeable to this latter sense, by taking him is to be understood the 
application of the divine wisdom or truth, according to what was observed concerning this 
expression in the explication of the miracle of the loaves and fishes; and by healing him, is 
further to be understood the application of the divine mercy or love, for all spiritual healing is 
from that source; and lastly, by letting him go, is to be understood the effect produced in the 
disordered church by the two-fold application as above, in consequence of which the church was 
at once relieved from the perversion under which it had laboured, and was enabled freely and of 
itself to walk in the ways of righteousness, by keeping the commandments of GOD.

Q. But it follows, that when JESUS had thus taken and healed the sick man, and let him go, He 
then proposed another question, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit,
and will not straightway pull him out on the sabbath-day, — what do you conceive to be the 
force and meaning of this second question?

A. This subject has been already discussed in treating of a former miracle in the preceding 
chapter, on which occasion a similar question was proposed in these words, Does not each of you
on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering? The only 
difference, therefore, between the two questions is this, that in the former miracle the inquiry is 
concerning an ox and an ass to be loosed from the stall and taken to watering, whereas in the 
present miracle the inquiry is concerning an ass and an ox fallen into a pit. This difference, 
however, in the letter of the two questions makes no difference as to their spirit and design, since
in both cases it is intended to prove the same thing, namely. that it is lawful to do good on the 
sabbath-day, whether this good be effected in the way of instruction of the natural man, signified
by loosing the ox or the ass from the stall, and leading him to the watering, or in the way of 
rescuing him from the influence of false persuasions, signified by pulling the ass or the ox out of 
the pit into which he was fallen. It here deserves to be noted, that in proposing the former 
question, the ox is mentioned before the ass, whereas in proposing the latter question the ass is 

- 111-

set before the ox, and though it may not perhaps be easy to assign the true reason for this change 
of priority, and still less easy to comprehend it if it was assigned, yet we are compelled to 
acknowledge, that since all the words of the BLESSED JESUS were the words of an INFINITE 
WISDOM, there must be a reason, and an important one also, for the above circumstance, however
trivial and fortuitous it may appear to those who are not accustomed to reflect that in the word, or
speech, of the GREAT and HOLY GOD, every expression and mode of expression must of necessity 
partake of a GREATNESS and HOLINESS similar to that of the DIVINE SPEAKER.

Q. And how do you understand the concluding words in the history of this miracle, where it is 
written, That they could not answer Him again to these things?

A. From these words I learn, that the wisdom and the works of GOD carry with them a 
reasonableness and an authority irresistible, and such as no wit or talent of thoughtless and 
wicked men can overthrow. Not that thoughtless and wicked men cannot oppose and endeavour 
to vilify both divine wisdom, and divine works, for every day's experience proves that they can. 
It is only therefore meant to assert, that both the word and the works of the ALMIGHTY are alike 
stable and permanent, and that though the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing, yet
the counsel of the LORD endures for ever, as experience again testifies, by proving that the book 
of Revelation, called The BIBLE, notwithstanding all the assaults which it is has endured either 
from the malice or the ridicule of the scoffer, still exists in the church as a fountain of living 
waters, and will continue to exist there, in like manner as it endures for ever in heaven, (Psalm 
119:8, 9).

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from this miracle?

A. From the letter or literal sense of this miracle, I am taught again to adore that divine 
omnipotence of the INCARNATE GOD, which manifested itself so repeatedly in the cure of bodily 
distempers; and on the present occasion, in the removal of that terrible disease called the Dropsy,
I am taught also to reflect that this disease in the human body is an exact figure of a far more 
dangerous one in the human mind, because it is a figure of a dreadful perversion of the good and 
truth of GOD'S MOST HOLY WORD, in consequence of admitting it only into the understanding, and
not into the will or love, in which case the mind labours under a super-adundance of mere natural
speculation, separate from the graces and virtues of heavenly life. I am instructed yet further by 
the history of this miracle, concerning the sanctity and true design of the sabbath-day, as being 
representative of the divine and heavenly marriage of love and wisdom in GOD, and of goodness 
and truth in heaven and the church. I am resolved, therefore, to profit by all this blessed 
instruction, and for this purpose to meditate continually on that divine and heavenly marriage, 
which the sabbath-day was designed to call continually to my re-collection. And since I myself, 
like all other men, am exposed to the danger of being afflicted by a spiritual dropsy, I am further 
resolved to keep diligent watch over myself, lest at any time I should be more eager in acquiring 
knowledge, than in forming my life according to it, or in speculating on the WORD OF GOD more 
than in practising its holy precepts. Yet should it come to pass, that through the frailty of my 
nature I should still contract the distemper which I dread, I will not still despair, but recollecting 
the blessed words, He took and healed him, and let him go, I will hasten to my GOD and SAVIOUR 

- 112-

to make me the happy subject of the same mercy. So may I hope to become, like the dropsical 
man in the above history, a monument of the loving-kindness and omnipotence of my GOD, and 
being restored to spiritual health and strength by a due and equal reception of the principles of 
spiritual life, I will sing with the holy one of old, Bless the LORD, 0 my soul, and forget not all 
His benefits; who forgives all your iniquities; who heals all your diseases; who redeemeth your 
life from destruction; who crowneth you with loving-kindness and tender mercies. AMEN.

- 113-

The Ten Lepers Cleansed

Luke 17:12-20

And as He entered into a certain village, there met Him ten men that were lepers, which stood 
afar off; and they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us, etc.

Q. YOU have already told me, in explaining a former miracle, Matthew viii. 2, what is spiritually
to be understood by a leper, and how the disorder called the leprosy is a figure of the profanation 
of good and truth, by which profanation is meant the receding from those heavenly principles of 
life, when previously they have been admitted and cherished. Can you now tell me what is here 
to be understood by the ten lepers, and by their standing afar off?

A. The lepers here are said to be ten, to denote all in the church who were guilty of the above 
profanation, in like manner as the ten virgins, to whom the kingdom of heaven is likened, Matt 
25:1, denote all who are in the church, whether they be good or bad; and as the ten horns of the 
scarlet beast, Rev. xvii. 7 and 12, denote the all of power in what was figured by the beast; and 
by their standing afar off, is here signified humiliation of heart under a sense of their defilement 
before the DIVINE MAJESTY, because it afterwards follows, that they lifted up their voices, and 
said, JESUS, Master, have mercy on us. By standing afar off, according to the spiritual idea, is 
meant in general, not distance of space, but disagreement in affection, since all distance in the 
spiritual world is determined solely by the agreement or disagreement of the affections of those 
who dwell there; but in the present instance it denotes humiliation and adoration of heart, arising 
from a sense of unworthiness, inasmuch as it follows that they made earnest supplication to their 
SAVIOUR GOD.

Q. How does it appear that these ten lepers addressed the BLESSED JESUS in such an earnest 
manner as their GOD?

A. Their earnestness is manifest from the expression, they lifted up their voices, for to lift up the 
voice, according to the spiritual idea, denotes an elevation of affection and thought, consequently
earnestness in the pursuit of what they wanted; and that they acknowledged the BLESSED JESUS as
their GOD, is further evident both from their supplicating His mercy, and from the title which they
here give Him, which in the original is epistatos, and signifies governor.*

* In the original Greek of the evangelical history there are four distinct terms, which in the English
version are all alike rendered Master, when applied to the GREAT SAVIOUR, The first is Didascalos,
which properly signifies Teacher or Master of Letters; the second is Epistatos, the term used in 
this miracle, which properly signifies a Praefect or Governor; the third is Catthegetes, which 
properly signifies a Leader or Director in a Way; the fourth is Rabbi, which properly signifies 
Master. The first occurs in Matthew viii 19. chap. 9:11. chap. 10:24, 25. chap. 12:38. chap. 17:24. 
22:16. chap. 26:18. Mark 5:35. chap. 10:17. chap. 12:14. Luke 3:12. chap. 6:40. chap. 7:45. chap. 
8:49. chap. 10:25. John 11:28. chap. 13:13, 14. The second occurs, Luke 8:24. chap. 9:35. chap. 
17:13. The third occurs, Matthew 23:8-10. The fourth occurs, Matthew xxvi.49. It is to be noted 

- 114-

also that a fifth term, via. Kurios, which properly signifies Lord, is sometimes rendered Master, as 
in Matthew 15:27. chap. 26:25.

Q. But it is written that when He saw them, He said to them, Go, show yourselves to the priests. 
And it came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed — what do you understand by these 
words?

A. According to the letter of the history, they are to be understood literally, and were literally 
true; but according to the spiritual sense involved in this and all the other miracles worked by the
LORD, they are to be understood spiritually and agreeable to their spiritual signification, by JESUS
seeing, is here to be understood divine inspection into the state of profanation which then 
prevailed in the church; and by His saying to the lepers, Go, show yourselves to the priests, is 
denoted divine injunction respecting life, that it should always be kept open to communication 
with the SUPREME GOOD, that is to say, with the good of heavenly love and charity, this good 
being represented by the priests in the Jewish or representative church, agreeable to what was 
shown in the explanation of a former miracle, Matthew 8:2-5, where the same injunction is 
given; and by their being cleansed as they went, is further to be understood that they were 
delivered from the evil of profanation, in consequence of living according to divine order, and 
thus keeping their minds open to the influence and reception of heavenly love.

Q. And how do you understand what is afterwards written, that one of them, when he saw that he
was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified GOD, and fell down on his face at His 
feet, giving Him thanks; and he was a Samaritan?

A. From the literal sense of these words I learn, that one of the above lepers, under a sense of the 
mercy which he had received, returned to give thanks to his DIVINE BENEFACTOR, acknowledging
at the same time that he was both GOD and MAN ; for it is said, that with a loud voice he glorified 
GOD, and then it is immediately added, that he fell down at His (God's) feet where by GOD'S feet 
nothing can be meant but the lowest principle of His HUMANITY. And from the spiritual sense of 
the same words, I am further taught a lesson of the greatest importance to be well apprehended, 
namely. that they, who are principled in the affection of truth, as was the case with this returning 
leper, are disposed to acknowledge the BLESSED JESUS, or GOD in a DIVINE HUMANITY, as the sum
and substance of all representatives in the church, and to worship Him accordingly as the All in 
All, or the fullness and completion of every rite and ceremony, of every type and figure, by 
which, previous to His incarnation, He had been promised to the world in the book of 
Revelation. For by this leper turning back, is evidently meant his turning back from going to 
show himself to the priests; in other words, his turning back from what was merely 
representative; and by his glorifying GOD on the occasion, and falling down on his face at His 
feet, giving Him thanks, is as evidently declared, that from what was representative he turned 
himself to what was represented, namely. to the MANIFESTED JEHOVAH in His DIVINE HUMANITY, 
confessing Him, and Him alone, to be his deliverer from the evil of profanation, thus his restorer 
to all the purity, power, and blessedness of heavenly life, and consequently that DIVINE PERSON 
perfigured under every representative law, ordinance, and rite of the Jewish or representative 
church.

- 115-

Q. You said that by this returning leper are denoted those who are in the affection of truth, — 
what proof can you give that this was the case?

A. I prove it from the circumstance of his being a Samaritan, for by the Samaritans, in the 
representative church, were denoted those who were principled in that affection, which is further 
confirmed by what is said in the parable of the good Samaritan, and also by the discourse which 
JESUS CHRIST held with the woman of Samaria at Jacob's well.

Q. And how do you understand the words which follow, where it is written, that JESUS answering
said. Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to 
give glory to GOD, save this stranger?

A. These words prove that the sayings of the BLESSED JESUS contain infinite stores of wisdom, 
which no thought of angel or of man can fully conceive, and no tongue of angel or man is able to
express. For when He asks the significant question, Were there not ten cleansed? it is the same 
thing as if He had said, Are not all mankind the subjects of my purifying influence? Is there a 
human being who is not restrained from the perversion and profanation of heavenly good and 
truth, in one degree or other by my power? Again, when He asks the equally significant question,
Where are the nine? it is the same thing as if He had again said, Whence comes it to pass that my
purifying power is not generally acknowledged? How is it that mankind do not perceive that they
are indebted to me daily for every good affection and thought, by which they are preserved from 
the perversion and profanation of truth? Why then do they not return to ME, to render thanks for 
my mercies, by expressing a grateful sense of the favours which they continually receive from 
ME? Again, when He adds, There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this 
stranger, it is the same thing as if He had said, I am not acknowledged by those who have 
received my WORD, and who ought to have been instructed by its representatives, that I am the 
thing represented, because I am the Divine Fountain of all life, and wisdom and purity; when yet 
they, who have not MY WORD, and have not been the subjects of its instruction, are disposed to 
acknowledge ME, by giving me the glory which properly belongs to ME.

Q. But it is lastly written, that He said to him, Arise, go your way; your faith has made you whole
— how do you understand these words?

A. According to the sense of the letter, the words relate to the discharge of the Samaritan leper, 
and to the declaration of the cause of his cure, as originating in his faith; but according to the 
spiritual sense of the words, they apply to those who are rescued by divine mercy from the guilt 
of profanation, and contain a salutary counsel on the interesting occasion. For by arising in this 
case, is to be understood an elevation of the affection and thoughts to a closer and fuller 
conjunction with the SUPREME GOOD and SUPREME TRUTH, thus with the INCARNATE GOD in His 
DIVINE HUMANITY; and by the additional injunction, go your way, is further to be understood the 
requirement of divine order, that they should form their lives in agreement with such elevation, 
that so the external man, with all his concerns, may be under the rule and government of 
heavenly love and wisdom in the internal man; and lastly by the declaration, your faith has made
you whole, is to be understood that the perversion and profanation of good and truth can only be 

- 116-

removed by faith in and from the INCARNATE GOD, thus by a faith not originating in man, but in 
HIM who has said, Without Me you can do nothing.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from this miracle?

A. From the literal sense of this miracle, I learn again to adore that omnipotence of the GREAT 
SAVIOUR, by which He cured the terrible bodily disease called the Leprosy, in ten several cases at 
the Same time, and this, when the subjects of that disease were removed from His more 
immediate presence. And from the spiritual sense of the miracle, I am led again to reflect on that 
far more terrible mental disease, the profanation of good and truth, of which the leprosy was a 
striking and awful figure. From the example too of the one leper, who turned back, and with a 
loud voice glorified GOD, and whose faith was afterwards commended by that GOD, I am further 
taught the instructive lesson, how I ought also to behave under similar circumstances, and on 
every occasion of receiving any spiritual blessing from the hand of my GOD. I learn also, that all 
the representatives in the Jewish or representative church pointed at the GREAT SAVIOUR, and 
were realized in His divine person. From the LORD'S significant question also, Were there not ten 
cleansed? I receive the additional instruction, that He extends to all mankind the healing virtue 
of His divine presence and operation, for the purpose of preserving them from the great evil of 
profanation; and from His other equally significant question, Where are the nine? I am led to 
reflect on that awful state of inconsideration, by which the generality of mankind are blinded to a
proper sense of the gratitude they owe to the FATHER OF MERCIES, and thus accept His favours, 
but without acknowledging the divine bounty from which they flow. Again, when the BLESSED 
JESUS adds, There are not found that returned to give glory to GOD, save this stranger, I am 
taught to see, that the Gentiles, who do not possess the Word of Revelation, are better disposed in
general to acknowledge the INCARNATE GOD, and worship Him in His DIVINE HUMANITY, than 
they who do possess it, and who at the same time profane its truths and sanctities. Lastly, from 
the concluding injunction to the cleansed leper, Arise, go your way, your faith has made you 
whole, I learn the important duty of elevating my affections and thoughts to my SAVIOUR GOD 
under every reception of His mercy, and to form my whole life and conversation in agreement 
with such elevation, devoutly acknowledging the cure of all my spiritual disorders to proceed 
from His divine favour, because it is the result of a faith which He alone inspires. I am resolved, 
therefore, to endeavour to profit by all the above instruction, and especially, in every spiritual 
purification, to imitate the example of the one in the above history, who, when he saw that he 
was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified GOD, and fell on his face at His feet. 
Thus may I hope, like this blessed leper, to gain the approbation of my GOD, and to hear from His
divine lips the edifying and consolatory words, Arise, go your way. your faith has made you 
whole. AMEN.

- 117-

The Water Turned Into Wine

John 2:1-12

And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of JESUS was there; 
and both JESUS was called and His disciples to the marriage, etc,

Q. WHAT do you here understand by a marriage in Cana of Galilee?

A. By a marriage in Cana of Galilee, according to the literal sense of the above history, is to be 
understood what is literally expressed; but according to the spiritual sense, by the marriage here 
spoken of, is to be understood a spiritual marriage, which is such a marriage as that mentioned 
in the parable, and to which the kingdom of heaven is compared, where it is said, The kingdom of
heaven is like a certain king which made a marriage for his son. This marriage is the marriage of
goodness and truth, thus the marriage of the LORD with His church, and with every individual 
composing the church, and therefore whether we speak of the LORD'S church, or of a marriage, it
is the same thing, since, as the conjunction of goodness and truth is truly and properly a 
marriage, in like manner the same conjunction truly and properly constitutes what is called the 
church. When therefore it is said, There was a marriage in Cana of Galilee, the words spiritually 
relate to the establishment of the church among the Gentles, for by Cana of Galilee is meant a 
Gentile city, agreeable to what is written in the prophet, where it is said, By the way of the sea, 
beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations [or Gentiles,] (Isai. 9:1).

Q. But it is written concerning this marriage, That the mother of JESUS was there, and does JESUS
was called and His disciples to the marriage — how do you understand these words?

A. These words, like all other parts of this divine history, have both a literal and a spiritual 
meaning, and according to their literal meaning they imply what they literally express; but 
according to their spiritual meaning, they involve in them an internal sense, which lies concealed
within the letter, as the soul is concealed within its body. Agreeable, therefore, to this internal 
sense, by the mother of JESUS being there, or at the marriage, is to be understood that the 
affection of good was there, this affection being always dignified in the sacred Scriptures by the 
venerable title of mother, inasmuch as all things in the church are derived from that affection; 
again, when it is added, That both JESUS was called and His disciples to the marriage, the words 
imply, that in this establishment of the church, conjunction was sought with the DIVINE BEING 
through the HUMANITY which he assumed, and conjunction also with all the several orders of 
good and of truth derived from that BEING, and represented by His disciples.

Q. And what do you understand by the words which follow, where it is written, That when they 
wanted wine, the mother of JESUS said to Him, They have no wine?

A. These words also, according to their literal sense, mean what is literally expressed, and have 
relation only to the material liquor called wine; but according to their spiritual sense, they have a 
deeper and more interior meaning, having relation to spiritual wine, or to that wine of which 

- 118-

JESUS CHRIST speaks in another place, where He says, Neither do men put new wine into old 
bottles, (Matthew 9:17); and again, I will not drink now on of this fruit of the vine, until that day 
when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom, (Matthew 26:29). The wine then here 
referred to, and called new wine, is nothing else than the interior spiritual sense of the Jewish law
and ritual, opened by the INCARNATE God; in other words, it is that interior apprehension of the 
divine truth contained in the. sacred Scriptures, which JESUS CHRIST in another place calls His 
blood, and also the blood of the New Testament, as being distinct from that external apprehension
of the same truth which before prevailed, and which He calls old wine. That wine in the sacred 
Scriptures is spoken of according to a spiritual signification, is evident from the following 
passages amongst many others, In the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red, 
(Psalm 75:8). And again, Come buy wine and milk without money, and without price, (Isaiah 
55:1). According then to this spiritual interpretation, by their wanting wine, or, as it might be 
more properly expressed, When the wine was finished, is to be understood that there was no 
longer any spiritual apprehension of truth in the church; and by the mother of JESUS saying to 
him, They have no wine, is further to be understood that this was perceived by the affection of 
good in the church.

Q. But it follows, that JESUS said to her? Woman, what have I to do with you? mine hour is not 
yet come — what do you conceive to be the import and meaning of these words?

A. When the BLESSED JESUS, on this occasion, applied the term woman, and not mother, He 
designed to teach the instructive and important lesson, that He was no longer her son, but by 
nativity, as well as by conception, was the SON OF GOD, thus was JEHOVAH manifest in the flesh. 
It is further to be understood, that in the process of His glorification, or of making His humanity 
divine, He successively put off the infirm humanity which He received from the mother, and in 
the same degree put on a humanity-from the FATHER, which He finally made a DIVINE HUMANITY.
It is further observable, that in addressing His mother at the time of His crucifixion, He again 
calls her woman, (John 19:26), to denote a second time that He was no longer her son.

Q. And what do you understand by the words applied on this occasion, What have I to do with 
you? mine hour is not yet come.

A. The former part of these words is not expressed in agreement with the original Greek, which 
might be more properly rendered, What (is it) to me and to you? Still however it is difficult to 
discover the precise purport of these. words, as applied by the BLESSED JESUS. Their most 
probable design appears to be this, that by an apparent refusal to attend to His mother's 
importunity, He might put her faith to a trial, in like manner, as He afterwards put to trial the 
faith of His apostle Philip, by the question, Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat? (John
6:5), on which occasion it is added in the verse which follows, And this he said to prove Him, for
He Himself knew what He would do. In the present case, therefore, it is not improbable that He 
might intend to prove His mother, and consequently those represented by His mother, when yet 
HE HIMSELF knew what He would do. It is accordingly added, mine hour is not yet come, because 
by His hour not being yet come, is to be understood that His humanity was not yet fully glorified,
or made DIVINE, and thus that He was not yet in a state to confer on His church all that blessing 

- 119-

which He came to confer, by opening the minds of men to an interior or spiritual apprehension of
the heavenly truths contained in His HOLY WORD.

Q. But it is written in the next verse, that His mother says to the servants, Whatsoever He says to
you, do — how do you understand these words?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words contain an instruction from the mother of 
JESUS to the servants attendant at the marriage, to do whatever JESUS required them to do; but 
according to the spiritual sense above referred to, they contain a dictate from the affection of 
good in the church to the lower principles of the natural mind, to submit themselves in all things 
to the order, authority, and precept of the INCARNATE GOD. For the church in general may be 
regarded as an individual house or family, in which goodness and truth are as the husband and 
wife, whilst the affections of goodness and truth are the sons and daughters, and natural delights 
with their several sciences are the men-servants and maid-servants. The servants therefore here 
spoken of are to be regarded according to this spiritual idea.

Q. And how do you understand the words which follow, And there were set there six water-pots 
of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece?

A. By the six water-pots of stone, set according to the purifying of the Jews, are spiritually to be 
understood those things in the HOLY WORD, and thence in the Jewish church and its worship, 
which were representative and significative of divine things in the LORD and from the LORD, 
which contained internal things; on which account also they were six and of stone, because the 
number six signifies all, and is predicated of truths; stone also signifies truth; and the purifying of
the Jews signifies purification from sins, thus all things of the Jewish church, for the church 
regards purification from sins as all that belongs to it, since in proportion as any one is purified 
from sins, in the same proportion lie is a church.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the purport of the next verse, where it is written, JESUS says 
to them, Fill the water-pots with water, and they filled them up to the brim?

A. According to the literal sense of this, history, the above words mean what is literally 
expressed; but according to the spiritual sense, they have a deeper and more edifying meaning. 
For according to the spiritual idea, by the water-pots here spoken of are signified, as was above 
observed, all those things in the WORD, and thence in the Jewish church and its worship, which 
were representative and significative of divine things in the LORD and from the LORD. When the 
LORD then says of these water-pots, Fill them with water, it is to be understood, agreeable to the 
above spiritual interpretation, that it is the divine will and intention, that the representatives and 
significatives of the Jewish church should be regarded as the continents of all divine and 
heavenly truths, and should thus be filled in the minds of all true believers with that living watery
of which JESUS CHRIST speaks in another place, where He says, Whoever drinks of the water that
I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him, shall be in him a well of 
water springing up to everlasting life, (John 4:14). And again, when it is added, that they filled 
them up to the brim, it is to be understood that the will and intention of the LORD was fulfilled by 

- 120-

a devout acknowledgement in the church, that all representatives and significatives in the HOLY 
WORD are full of his life, because they have relation to Him and to the things of His eternal 
kingdom.

Q. How then do you understand the words which follow, And He says to them, Dram out now, 
and bear to the governor of the feast?

A. According to the spiritual interpretation above given of this history, by the command, Draw 
out now, is to be understood divine requirement that instruction from the WORD should be given 
agreeable to the idea above suggested of its spiritual contents; and by bearing to the governor of 
the feast, is further to be understood divine requirement that this instruction shall be imparted to 
all those who are principled in the knowledges of truth, all such being represented and signified 
by the governor of the feast; and lastly, by its being added, they bare, is to be understood, that 
this requirement was fulfilled by those whose office it was to instruct.

Q. But it is written further, that when the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made 
wine, and knew not whence it was; but the servants which drew the water knew; the governor of 
the feast called the bridegroom, and says to him, Every man at the beginning does set forth good 
wine, and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse, but you have kept the good wine 
until now — how do you understand these words?

A. By the water here said to be made wine, is to be understood spiritually the truth of the external
church, such as was the truth of the Jewish church, converted by divine presence and agency into
the truth of the internal church, such as is the truth of the Christian church: hence by the LORD 
making water wine is spiritually signified, that He made the truths of the external church truths 
of the internal church, by opening the internal things which lay concealed in them; and by the 
ruler of the feast tasting this water made wine, is to be understood that they, who were principled
in the knowledges of truth, had a perception of this extraordinary change; and by his not knowing
whence it was, but the servants which drew the water knew, is further signified that the cause of 
this change in the apprehension of truth was not known to those who were in the knowledges of 
truth, but only to those who were instructors in truth; and lastly, by his calling the bridegroom, 
and saying to him. Every man at the beginning does set forth good wine, and when men have 
well drunk, then that which is worse, but you have kept the good wine until now, is to be 
understood that every church commences from truths derived from good, but closes in truths not 
of good, and that even now in the end of the church, truth derived from goody or genuine truth, is
given, namely, from the LORD, who is the true bridegroom. For by the beginning is meant the 
commencement of a church; and by good wine, the truths derived from good which are then 
taught in that church; and by that which is worse, truths not originating in good, but received and
taught under the influence of self love and the love of the world, at the end of the church; and by 
the good wine kept until now, the truths derived from good which will again be opened by the 
LORD for the establishment of a new church.

- 121-

Q. And how do you understand the concluding words of this history, where it is written, This 
beginning of miracles did JESUS in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth His glory, and His 
disciples believed on Him?

A. By beginning is here to be understood, not only precedency in regard to time, but also in 
regard to importance, and therefore it here implies, agreeable to the spiritual idea above-
mentioned, that the conversion of water into wine, or what amounts to the same thing, a spiritual 
apprehension of the WORD OF GOD implanted in the place of a natural one, is the first and chief of
miraculous agency; and by manifesting forth His glory on this occasion, is further to be 
understood the revelation of the internal spiritual sense of His MOST HOLY WORD, this sense 
constituting what is properly called glory, as in the following passages, The glory which You 
gave Me I have given them, (John 17:22); and again, FATHER, I will that they also whom You have
given Me may he with me where I am, that they may behold My glory which You have given Me, 
(John 5:24); and again, We beheld His glory, the glory as of the only-begotten of the Father, full 
of grace and truth: lastly, by His disciples believing on Him, is to be understood their faith in His
SOLE and SUPREME DIVINITY, as resulting from the manifestation of His glory, or, from the 
revelation of the interior truths of His HOLY WORD, since all faith properly so called is the result 
of the reception of interior truth seen in its connection with its divine source, the GREAT LORD 
AND SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from this miracle?

A. By the literal sense of this miracle I am taught again to adore the divinity and omnipotence of 
my GOD and SAVIOUR, so wonderfully displayed in the act of turning water into wine, whilst by 
its spiritual sense I am taught an additional edifying lesson both of instruction and of comfort. 
For from its spiritual sense I learn that the BLESSED JESUS is ever in the act of turning water into 
wine in the minds of all His true disciples, by raising them out of natural and external views of 
the truths of His HOLY WORD, into spiritual and internal views, and by thus enabling them to see, 
that His HOLY WORD throughout, with all its representatives and significatives, both under the 
Jewish and Christian dispensation, has respect to Himself, and to the interior spiritual things of 
His eternal kingdom. Lastly, I learn that every church, at its commencement, is founded on truths
derived from heavenly good of love and charity, but that in the process of its decay, those truths 
are separated from their heavenly source, and are thus deprived of their life, being received and 
taught under the influence of self-love and the love of the world, I am resolved therefore, through
divine assistance, to profit by the above instruction, and for this purpose to keep my eye 
constantly fixed on the INCARNATE GOD, whenever I am admitted to the high honour and 
happiness of hearing and reading His HOLY WORD, that so I may discover that He is the very life 
and soul of all its sacred truths, and that every type and figure points to HIM and His KINGDOM as 
the great realities in which they originate. Thus may I hope to see my water turned into wine, and
in that conversion to behold a new manifestation of my SAVIOUR'S glory, which may conduct me 
finally to the blessed privilege of ranking among those happy ones of whom it is said, That they 
believed on Him. AMEN.

- 122-

The Impotent Man at The Pool of Bethesda

John 5:2-15

Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep (market or gate) a pool, which is called in the Hebrew 
tongue Bethesda, having five porches; in these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, 
halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water, etc.

Q. WHAT do you understand by these words?

A. These words have both a literal and spiritual meaning; and according to their literal meaning 
they are to be understood as they are literally expressed, though commentators differ about this 
meaning, some calling it a sheep-market, and others a sheep-gate, whilst others conceive that the 
adjective sheep ought to be joined to the substantive pool. This difference, however, about the 
letter, does not affect the spiritual sense and meaning of the words, according to which sense and 
meaning they have relation, not to a pool of natural water, but to a pool of spiritual water, even to
the eternal truth of the WORD of GOD, which is called a pool by reason of the knowledges of good
and truth which it contains. For the WORD OF GOD is sometimes called a pool, sometimes a 
fountain, sometimes a well, and sometimes a river, and all in relation to the several states of its 
reception in the human mind, being called a pool, when it is received merely in the knowledge of
what is good and true; and being called a fountain, when it is received together with the life and 
love of knowledge; and being called a well, when it is admitted in a state of less purity; and 
lastly, being called a river, when it is seen in connection with its DIVINE SOURCE, or with the 
fountain of living waters. That a pool denotes the knowledges of what is good and true derived 
from the WORD OF GOD, may be confirmed by the following passages, where those knowledges 
are treated of, The parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty lands springs of water, 
(Isaiah 35:7); again, I will open rivers on high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys; I 
will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry lands springs of water, (Isa. 41:18). This 
pool is therefore called Bethesda in the Hebrew tongue, because by Bethesda is meant the house 
of mercy, and is thus a name fitly applied to the WORD OF GOD, as containing in it all the fullness 
of the divine mercy and loving-kindness: it is also said to have five porches, because by a porch 
is meant what introduces to a house, and when applied to the house of mercy, as in the present 
case, it denotes those introductory truths, which conduct to heavenly knowledge and life. Lastly, 
by the great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, lying in those, (porches), and 
waiting for the moving of the water, are to be understood all those of the human race, who are 
mad, sensible of their spiritual disorders, whether arising from the want of truth or of its good, 
and who apply to the WORD OF GOD as to the only medicine from which they can expect a cure.

Q. And what do you here understand by the moving of the water?

A. By moving, or, as it is expressed in the next verse, troubling, (or disturbing), is signified to 
vivify, or to give divine life, which signification is grounded in correspondence, since all motion 
corresponds to a state of thought, whence progressions, journeyings, and the like, which are acts 
of motion, in the HOLY WORD signify states of life. By moving the water therefore, in the above 

- 123-

passages, is signified vivification by acknowledgement and faith, thus also purification by truths;
and by healing is represented the restoration of spiritual life. This moving or disturbing of the 
water is an effect of the divine presence and operation, and accordingly it is written in the next 
verse, that an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled (or disturbed) the 
water, to teach the instructive lesson, that the ALMIGHTY is always in the act of vivifying, or 
giving life to, His HOLY WORD in the mind of man, by filling it with His own blessed spirit of 
love and charity. This act of the ALMIGHTY is here called troubling or (disturbing) the water, 
because it is attended with trouble or disturbance to the natural mind of man, during the process 
of His purification from unclean loves, but when that process is ended, by virtue of the healing 
power of the water, then disturbance ceases, and is succeeded by a state of peace and rest.

Q. But it is written, that Whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in, was 
made whole of whatever disease he had—— what do you conceive to be the force and meaning 
of these words?

A. By stepping into the water, according to the above spiritual interpretation of this history, is to 
be understood instruction in the knowledges of what is good and true from the Word of GOD ; 
and by first stepping in is denoted, not precedence in point of time, but in regard to affection, 
implying that the first or supreme affection is engaged in that instruction, according as it is said 
by JESUS CHRIST in another place, Seek you first the kingdom of GOD and His righteousness, 
where by seeking first the kingdom of GOD and His righteousness is signified the seeking those 
eternal blessings above all other blessings, thus with the first or supreme affection of the will or 
love. It is not therefore to be understood, as the sense of the letter appears to suggest, that the 
virtue of the water extends only to the single person who first steps into it, but it is to be 
understood, agreeable to the dictate of the spiritual sense, that whoever receives instruction from 
the WORD OF GOD, with all his heart and mind, and soul, under an acknowledgment that it is 
continually vivified by the divine presence and life, is made whole of whatever spiritual disease 
he had.

Q. And how do you understand the words which follow, where it is written, And a certain man 
was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words relate to a man who had a bodily infirmity, 
though it does not appear of what nature it was, and who had been waiting a long time in one of 
the porches for a cure; but according to the spiritual sense of this history, the infirm man here 
spoken of is to be regarded as a representative figure of all those in the church, who labour under
spiritual infirmity, and especially under that particular one, which prevents their deriving from 
the WORD OF GOD that spiritual strength and support which it was designed to convey. The 
specific character of this spiritual infirmity is marked in a succeeding verse, where the impotent 
man answers, Sir, I have no man when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool; but while I 
am coming, another steps down before me, (verse 7); for from the spiritual sense of these words 
it appears, that the impotent man here spoken of was unable of himself to derive proper 
instruction from the WORD OF GOD, in consequence of the intervention of some evil principle of 
self-love or the love of the world, which prevailed at the time over heavenly love, and thus 

- 124-

stepped down before it. For such is the case at this day with many people, who even apply 
themselves with a serious purpose to the WORD OF GOD for instruction, but who, from the 
unstableness of their resolutions, suffer selfish and worldly motives to interfere, and either to 
reject the proposed instruction, or if it be admitted, to pervert and defile it, by connecting it with 
evil affections and ends of life.

Q. But it is written, That when JESUS saw him lie, and knew that he had now been a long time (in
that case), he says to him, Will you be made whole? — how do you understand these words?

A. According to their literal meaning, these words relate to the impotent man above spoken of; 
but according to their spiritual meaning, they relate to those in the church, who are represented 
by this impotent man, agreeable to what has been shown above; and in this view, by JESUS 
seeing him lie, is denoted divine inspection into the state of such; and by His knowing that he 
had been now a long time (in that case), is denoted divine omniscience respecting every stage of 
spiritual infirmity and disorder; and by His saying, Will you be made whole? is to be understood 
divine exploration of the secret purposes and intentions of such persons, and how far it is the real
governing desire of their hearts to enter into a process of spiritual purification, by means of 
instruction from the WORD OF GOD.

Q And how do you understand the two following verses, where it is written, JESUS says to him, 
Rise, take up your bed, and walk. And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his 
bed and walked?

A. From the literal sense of these words, I am taught again to adore the mercy and omnipotence 
of the INCARNATE GOD manifested in the cure of bodily infirmity; and from their spiritual sense I 
learn another most edifying lesson relating to the cure of mental disease. For according to this 
latter sense, when the BLESSED JESUS says to the impotent man, Rise, He announced His divine 
power to elevate the will and affections of mankind to Himself, as to the divine source of all 
good and when He says further, Take up your bed, He meant to announce the same power ever 
near and at hand, to elevate the natural mind with all its persuasions to the same source; and 
lastly, when He adds, and walk, 

He inculcates the weighty duty of living according to such elevation; for by walking, as was 
observed in treating on a former miracle, is signified to live. Accordingly, the effect of the DIVINE
WORD instantly followed, for it is said, that immediately the man was made whole, and took up 
his bed, and walked, where by being made whole is signified purification from evils, through the 
reception of the cleansing power of the divine truth.

Q. But it is lastly written, that afterward JESUS finds him in the temple, and says to him, Behold 
thou are made whole, sin no more, lest a worse thing come to you — what do you here 
understand by the divine injunction to sin no more, and by the divine caution, lest a worse thing 
come to you?

- 125-

A. By the divine injunction to sin no more, is meant exhortation to live according to the laws of 
divine order, which laws are all the holy truths contained in the WORD of GOD; and by the 
caution, lest a worse thing come to you, is denoted the danger of profanation, the worst kind of 
which consists in first acknowledging divine truths and living according to them, and afterward 
receding from and denying them, in which case, holy things are mixed with profane in such a 
manner, that they cannot be separated, and yet they must be separated before the spirit can either 
be in heaven or in hell.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from this miracle?

A. From its literal sense, i am taught further to adore the mercy and omnipotence of my GOD and 
Saviour, displayed in the cure of bodily infirmity, whilst from its spiritual sense I am taught the 
edifying lesson, that the WORD of GOD is ever near and present with man, as a pool of heavenly 
water, intended for his purification from all his natural evils, and for his restoration thus to all the
strength and comfort of spiritual life. I learn further that this pool is in connection with the divine
mercy, and is therefore properly called Bethesda, or the house of mercy, so that all who wash in 
the pool are not only purified from their natural evils, but become at the same time the blessed 
habitations of the divine compassion and tender pity of the BLESSED JESUS. I am instructed yet 
further that all, who are made sensible of their infirmities and disorders, lie in the porches of this 
house; in other words, apply to the Book of Revelation to be instructed in its holy truths, but that 
some of these, for want of a fixed purpose to profit by instruction, suffer the evils of selfish and 
worldly love to prevail, so as to prevent their receiving the full effect of the spiritual medicine 
which they seek, until they receive strength from the divine presence and operation, together 
with a caution to be more guarded in future against the influences of disorderly love. I am 
resolved, therefore, to attend well to the above instructive lessons, and whenever I take my place 
at the pool of Bethesda for the cure of my spiritual disorders, I am resolved further to watch well 
over my purposes in applying to the blessed water for purification, that so none but a pure and 
heavenly purpose may be present, and that no defiled affection may step in, and deprive me of 
the blessing which I looked for in the WORD of LIFE. Thus may I hope finally to hear from my 
GOD and SAVIOUR the consolatory and vivifying words, Rise, take up your bed and walk; and 
thus too, in obedience to divine command, shall I also, like the impotent man of old, elevate my 
heart with all its best affections and thoughts to my GREAT CREATOR, and continue to live 
according to the laws of His divine order, and sin no more, lest a worse thing come to me. AMEN.

- 126-

Sight Restored To The Man Blind From His Birth

John 9:1-8

And as JESUS passed by, He saw a man which was blind from his birth. And His disciples asked 
Him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man or his parents, that he was born blind, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by a man blind from his birth?

A. According to the sense of the letter of this history, by a man blind from his birth, is meant one 
who was born blind, or without the use and enjoyment of die organs of bodily sight; but 
according to the spiritual sense involved in this and all the other miracles worked by the BLESSED
JESUS, by the blind man here recorded, are figured and represented those who are spiritually 
blind, or those who are destitute of the saving knowledge of heavenly truth; and by being blind 
from his birth, is further figured and represented the state of the Gentiles, or of- those, who, when
they have the faculty of receiving instruction in the knowledge either of moral or religious truth, 
never receive it, and who consequently are mere sensual men, believing only the testimony of 
their senses, and acknowledging nothing to be true but what they can confirm by their senses.

Q. And how do you understand the reply which the BLESSED JESUS here makes to the question 
proposed by His disciples, when He says, Neither has this man sinned, nor his parents, but that 
the works of God should be made manifest in him?

A. It appears from the mode of expression here adopted, as if the BLESSED JESUS pronounced 
both the man and his parents free from sin, and thus that He contradicts the testimony of His 
apostles, one of whom says, All have sinned, (Romans iii, 23), whilst another says, If we say that 
we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us, (1 John 1:8), but this appearance 
arises from separating the 'former part of the above words from the latter, instead of reading them
in the connection in which they stand. For if they be read in connection, their combined sense 
will then be this, Neither has this man sinned, or his parents, (in such a manner or degree), but 
that the works of GOD may be made manifest in him, which is the same thing as if He had said, 
Both this man and his parents may have sinned, but still they are not out of the reach of DIVINE 
MERCY and operation, and therefore their sin may tend to manifest more fully the works of that 
mercy, in effecting their purification and regeneration, which effects are in an eminent sense the 
works of God. A similar mode of expression occurs in another evangelist, where the BLESSED 
JESUS replies to the mother of Zebedee's children, "To sit on my right-handy and on my left is not
mine to give, but (it shall be given to those) for whom it is prepared of my Father, (Matthew 
20:23), and this mode of expression has led many into the error of supposing, that to sit on His 
right-hand and on His left is not His to give, whereas if the former part of the words be 
connected with the latter, no such declaration is made. For in a connected series, the import of 
the above words, when read without the interpolation made by the translators, is to this effect, To
sit on my right-hand and on my left is not mine to give, but (or except) to those for whom it is 
prepared of my Father; thus the declaration of the BLESSED JESUS amounts only to this, that He 
cannot confer the joys of heaven on those, who are not in a state of purification and preparation 

- 127-

to receive them, but only on those who are prepared, and whose preparation is of the Father ; in 
other words, of what is signified by the Father, namely. the divine good of the divine love; for 
when the FATHER and the SON are spoken of distinctly, by the former is to be understood the 
divine good of the divine love, and by the latter the divine truth of the divine wisdom.

Q. But the BLESSED JESUS immediately adds, I must work the works of Him that sent Me while it 
is day; the night comes when no man can work — can you see any connection between these 
words and those of the preceding verse?

A. Yes; the BLESSED JESUS, in the preceding verse, had been speaking of the works of GOD, and 
now He declares in the present verse, that these works must be worked by Himself in the day, 
and not in the night; in other words, they must be wrought when the principles of goodness and 
truth are admitted by man, and not when they are rejected. For the principal works of GOD consist
in the purification and regeneration of human minds, and these works cannot be accomplished 
where evil and error, which constitute spiritual night, abound, but only in the day of the dawning 
of heavenly goodness and truth. JESUS CHRIST accordingly teaches in the succeeding verse, that 
this day comes from Himself, and that consequently He is the GOD who performs the mighty 
works of man's purification and regeneration, for He declares, While I am in the world, I am the 
light of the world; in other words, I am that DIVINE TRUTH from which and by which all 
purification and regeneration is effected, for divine truth is light, and by divine truth and life 
according to it, man is purified and regenerated.

Q. And how do you understand the words which next follow, When He had thus spoken, He spat 
on the ground, and made clay of the spittle ; and He anointed the eyes of the blind man with the 
clay, and said to Him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is, by interpretation, Sent).

A. These words, like the foregoing, have both a literal and a spiritual meaning, and according to 
their literal meaning, they are to be understood as they are expressed; but according to their 
spiritual meaning, they are to be understood in relation to the recovery of spiritual sight, which is
the understanding of truth, amongst those who are signified by the man in this history, who was 
blind from his birth. Agreeable to this meaning, by JESUS thus speaking, is to be understood the 
declaration which He had just made of His SUPREME DIVINITY, consequently of His DIVINE 
HUMANITY, as being the only source of all divine faith; and by His spitting on the ground and 
making clay of the spittle, and anointing the eyes of the blind man with the clay, is further to be 
understood the preparation and application of a lower order of truth in His HOLY WORD, called 
sensual truth, or truth adapted to the apprehension of sensual men, or minds, such as have been 
above described; for by clay made of spittle, such an order of truth is signified and represented. It
is remarkable therefore, that, on this occasion, the BLESSED JESUS does not address this blind 
man as, on two former occasions, He had addressed other blind men, saying, in one instance, 
Believe you that I am able to do this? (Matthew 9:28), and in another instance, What will you 
that I should do to you? (Matthew 20:32), neither does He touch the eyes, as in the two other 
cases, but He makes clay with spittle, and anoints the eyes, bidding the blind man Go, and wash 
in the pool of Siloam, from all which circumstances it is evident that another and distinct kind of 
blindness is here described, consequently another and distinct kind of restored sight. It is evident 

- 128-

also that the blindness here described is of a grosser and more external kind than in the former 
cases, because in the first place it did not admit of immediate communication with the divine 
healing power by the touch, and in the second place, it required for its cure a medium of a 
grosser and more external nature. Such a medium is the clay here described, and which is 
figurative of that order of truth in the HOLY WORD, which may be called sensual truth, because 
adapted to the sensual mind, and best fitted for its restoration to the blessing of spiritual sight. Of
this order of truth are all those passages in the HOLY WORD, where divine and heavenly things are
described under figures most striking to the senses, as under the figures of crowns, thrones, 
feasts, music, dancing, etc. The man in the above history is accordingly bidden by his SAVIOUR to
Go, and wash in the pool of Siloam, because by going, is to be understood living, and by 
washing in the pool of Siloam, is further to be understood purification from evil by means of the 
above order of truth, which is called Siloam, or sent, to denote that it proceeds from the divine 
source of truth the DIVINE HUMANITY of the BLESSED JESUS, which HUMANITY for the same 
reason is said to be sent (verse 4), because it proceeded or came forth from the ETERNAL FATHER, 
(see John 16:28).

Q. But it is said of the blind man at the conclusion of the verse, that he went his way therefore, 
and washed, and came seeing — how do you understand these words?

A. In agreement with the spiritual sense of this history, as above described, these words are to be 
understood spiritually, whilst according to the literal sense they are to be understood literally, and
were literally accomplished; and in agreement with the spiritual sense, by the man going his way,
is to be understood obedience to the divine counsel, amongst those who are represented by the 
man; and by washing, is denoted purification from evil in consequence of such obedience; and 
by coming seeing, is further denoted that they afterwards live according to the understanding of 
truth, to which their minds were opened. Thus the words taken collectively, denote the full effect 
produced by that order of sensual truth which had been provided and recommended.

Q. In the succeeding part of this history, a long account is given of the agitation and disturbance 
which this miracle occasioned amongst the Pharisees, and how finally they CAST the blind man 
out (of the synagogue) — what instruction do you learn from this part of the history?

A. From the perverseness of the Pharisees on this occasion, I am taught the instructive lesson, 
that there is no blindness so terrible, and so difficult to cure, as that which arises from a corrupt 
will, especially if hypocrisy, or an external sanctity, be added to that corruption. The BLESSED 
JESUS therefore, at the conclusion of this history, makes the following interesting declaration, 
For judgement am I come into this world, that they which see not might see, and that they who 
see might be made blind, from which words I learn that they, who are out of the pale of the 
church, and are not in possession of the oracles of divine truth, are in a better state to admit the 
truth, and thus recover intellectual sight, than those within the church, who enjoy the benefit of 
instruction from the WORD OF GOD, and who nevertheless do not form their lives according to the
purity of such instruction. The truly seeing, therefore, are they, who acknowledge all their 
wisdom, together with its affection, to come from the GOD of HEAVEN, whilst the truly blind are 
they, who believe their wisdom and its affection to be derived from themselves.

- 129-

Q. But it is lastly written, that JESUS heard that they had cast him out; and when He had found 
him. He said to him, Do you believe on the Son of God? He answered and said, Who is He, Lord,
that I might believe on Him? And JESUS said to him, You have both seen Him, and it is He that 
talketh with you. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped Him —— what do you 
conceive to be the import and meaning of these words?

A. According to the sense of the letter, these words relate to the blind man, whose history is here 
recorded; but according to the spiritual sense, they relate to those who are represented by this 
blind man, namely. the Gentiles, who are without the HOLY WORD, and therefore uninstructed, but
who afterwards receive instruction, and have the eyes of their understandings opened by the 
sense of the letter of the Word. In reference, therefore, to these Gentiles, by JESUS finding the 
blind man, and saying to him, Do you believe on the Son of God, is to be understood divine 
inquisition into the quality of their faith, and whether it was directed to the LORD in His DIVINE 
HUMANITY; and by the man answering and saying, Who is He, LORD, that I might believe on 
Him? is to be understood inquiry on the part of the Gentiles, concerning the DIVINE HUMANITY ; 
and by JESUS saying unto him, You have both seen Him, and it is He that talketh with you, is 
further to be understood that the DIVINE HUMANITY of the INCARNATE GOD is discoverable in 
every truth of the HOLY WORD, because the HOLY WORD throughout treats of His glorification; 
and lastly, by the blind man saying, LORD, I believe, and afterwards worshiping Him, is to be 
understood that the Gentiles, when instructed from the HOLY WORD, acknowledge the DIVINE 
HUMANITY of the LORD, and adore Him in that HUMANITY as the ONLY GOD of heaven and earth.

Q. In the gospel according to St. Mark, a miracle is recorded, which bears some resemblance to 
the one here treated of, for it is there written, that they brought a blind man to JESUS, and 
besought Him to touch him. And He took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the town;
and when He had spit on his eyes, and put His hands upon him, He asked him if he saw aught. 
And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking. And after that, He put His hands again 
upon his eyes, and made him look up; and he was restored, and saw every man clearly. And He 
sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town, (Mark 
8:22-27). — can you briefly explain to me the spiritual sense of this miracle in reference to the 
particular circumstances which distinguish it from the miracle above treated of?

A. By leading the blind man out of the town, in the present instance, is to be understood removal 
from former opinions and doctrines of truth; and by the man looking up, and saying, I see men as
trees, walking, is further to be understood obscure and general perception of truth, such as is 
derived from the letter of the sacred Scriptures; and by his being restored, and seeing every man 
clearly, after that he was touched a second time by the GREAT SAVIOUR, is denoted, that the 
understanding was then opened to the discernment of truth in its internal form or spirit, as well as
in its external appearance; lastly, by JESUS sending him away to his house, and saying, Neither 
go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town, is further to be understood, that the interior 
perceptions of truth, which had been communicated, should be interiorly cherished and obeyed, 
and likewise that they should be kept separate from the influence and operation of former 
persuasions and opinions. 

- 130-

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above miracle?

A. From the letter or literal sense of this history, I am again taught to adore the divine 
omnipotence of my GOD and SAVIOUR, exerted in the cure of a man blind from his birth; and 
from the spiritual sense, I am taught several weighty lessons of instruction relative to spiritual 
blindness, and to its cure by the same omnipotence. For respecting spiritual blindness, I am 
taught by the above history, that there is a blindness arising from the want of early instruction, 
such as is that of the Gentiles, who are out of the church, and consequently receive no instruction
from the HOLY WORD, and who on this account are sensual men, and believe nothing but what is 
in agreement with the evidence of the senses. And in regard to the cure of this blindness, I am 
taught that it is provided in the HOLY WORD, and is there to be found in the letter, under the form 
of sensual truth, which is the clay made of spittle in the above history, and is accommodated to 
the apprehension of sensual minds, leading them finally to the acknowledgement and worship of 
the INCARNATE GOD in His divine HUMANITY. I am resolved, therefore, from now on to attend 
carefully to all the sources and consequent qualities of spiritual blindness in my own mind, and 
to go and wash in the pool of Siloam, whenever I find that the sensual mind prevails, so as to 
darken in me the light of the eternal truth. Thus may I humbly hope, like the blind man in the 
above history, to come seeing; and finally, like him, to be enabled to say, LORD, I believe, and by 
believing become a true worshiper of the LIVING GOD in His DIVINE HUMANITY. AMEN.

- 131-

Lazarus Raised from the Dead

John 11:1-45

The particulars related in this chapter concerning Lazarus, previous to his being raised from the 
dead, are so numerous and likewise so important, that it would require a volume to give a full 
and satisfactory explanation of their spiritual meaning. We must, therefore, be content to pass 
them by, and proceed immediately to the interpretation of the several circumstances recorded, 
when the BLESSED JESUS took His station at the grave of the deceased, and prepared directly for 
the exercise of His divine omnipotence. Nevertheless it may be proper to remark, as a clue to the 
elucidation of the introductory parts of the history, that by Lazarus are here represented the 
Gentiles, as also in the parable, (Luke 16:20), and by his being raised from the dead, is further 
figured the establishment of a new church amongst the Gentiles, and in every individual; for the 
establishment of a church, in all cases, implies the communication of spiritual life by the removal
of evils and errors; thus it implies also resurrection from the dead, since wheresoever evil and 
error prevail, there is death. This being premised, the reader will now consider himself as 
standing at the grave of Lazarus, and will there ask, Q. How are the following words to be 
understood, where it is written, JESUS again therefore groaning in Himself, comes to the grave: it
was a cave, and a stone lay upon it?

A. It had been before said, on this occasion, that JESUS groaned in spirit, (ver. 38), therefore 
when it is now said that He groaned in Himself, it implies a two-fold groaning, and since by 
groaning, when spoken of the DIVINE BEING, is meant a vehement emotion of divine principles, 
by a two-fold groaning, or what is here called again groaning, is to be understood a vehement 
emotion both of the divine love and divine wisdom occasioned by the circumstances which 
presented themselves, when viewed both literally and representatively. By His coming to the 
grave, under this emotion, is further to be understood, not only His divine presence at the tomb 
of Lazarus, but also at what is here: figured by a tomb, namely. the principles of unregenerate 
life; in other words, the principles of selfish and worldly love, which entomb the mind of man in 
its natural state, and prevent its arising to the sense and enjoyment of its proper life in the love of
GOD and its neighbour. It is said of this tomb or grave, that it was a cave, and a stone lay upon it,
because by a cave, according to the spiritual idea involved in this history, is denoted an obscure 
state of faith and of love; and by a stone lying upon it, is further signified that this obscurity was 
occasioned by false persuasions of the understanding, which darkened the light of truth. For 
stone, when applied in a good sense, signifies divine truth, and especially the truth which 
announces the divinity of JESUS CHRIST, who is accordingly called The stone which the builders 
refused; but in the opposite sense, the terms stone and stony are applied in the sacred Scriptures 
to denote false persuasions and the effects thereby produced, agreeable to which meaning it is 
written of the angels concerning the LORD, They shall bear you up in their hands, lest you dash 
your foot against a stone, (Psalm 91:11, 12); again it is written of the LORD and His vineyard, 
that He gathered out the stones thereof (Isaiah 5:2); and again it is said in the prophet, I will take 
away the stony heart out of your flesh, and will give you a heart of flesh, (Ezek. 35:26).

Q. But it is written, JESUS said, Take the atone away — how do you understand these words?

- 132-

A. As applied to the grave of Lazarus, these words are to be understood literally, but as applied to
the establishment of a church, and to the regeneration of man, they are to be understood 
spiritually, and according to their spiritual meaning they contain a lesson of the deepest 
importance. For according to this meaning, to take away the stone, is to remove from the 
understanding all false persuasions which are opposed to the ETERNAL TRUTH ; thus all vain 
thoughts, all foolish imaginations, all perverse judgement, which prevent the voice of the DIVINE 
WISDOM from being heard, and its salutary saving effects from being experienced. Take away the
stone, is therefore a primary law and condition of man's reformation, regeneration, and salvation,
since until this is effected, the omnipotent voice of the divine mercy and truth cannot be heard, 
and the terrible consequence must be that man will remain for ever dead and buried in the grave 
of impure and defiled affections and appetites.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the import of the observation made on this occasion by 
Martha the sister of him that was dead, who says to JESUS, Lord, by this time he stinks, for he 
has been dead four days?

A. From these words I learn how difficult a thing it is to acquire a right faith in the omnipotence 
of the GREAT REDEEMER, for although this REDEEMER had before said to Martha, This sickness is 
not to death, but for the glory of GOD, (see verse 4th of this chap).; and although He had before 
declared, I am the Resurrection and the Life; he that believes in Me, though he were dead, yet 
shall he live, (ver. 25), still, when her faith is put to the proof, it is found wavering and defective, 
and she thinks it impossible that life can be restored to a putrid carcase. And just so it is with 
those who are here represented by Martha, or those who are in the affection of truth, (for Martha 
and her sister Mary, in this history, are representative of the two affections, of good and of truth), 
when their faith is put to the proof respecting spiritual resurrection, or the establishment of a 
new church, which is the restoration of spiritual life to those who have been long dead in 
trespasses and sins, For on this occasion they see nothing but difficulties and impossibilities, 
even though they have been previously instructed concerning the DIVINE OMNIPOTENCE, and 
viewing only the principle of evil in its terrible death and defilement they forget that all things 
are possible to him that believes, and that even the putrid and offensive carcase of human sin and
corruption may, in the hour of true repentance, administer to the glory of GOD, that the SON of 
GOD may be glorified thereby.

Q. And how do you understand the following words which were spoken in reply, JESUS says to 
her, Said I not to you, that if you would believe, you should see the glory of GOD?

A. By believing, is here to be understood faith in the INCARNATE GOD, or in the DIVINE 
HUMANITY of that GOD, in which He reigns as the GREAT FATHER and ALMIGHTY SOVEREIGN of 
heaven and earth; and by seeing the glory of GOD in consequence of such a faith, is to be 
understood a perception of the divine presence, power and operation of the MOST HIGH in His 
word and in His works, in His word, by the manifestation of His divine truth, with which its 
interior contents are filled, and with which they are in perpetual connection; and in His works, by
the government of His divine providence in all human concerns however minute, and especially 
by that interior operation which He exercises continually in the minds of men, whilst He guards 

- 133-

them from infernal force and delusion, and through the influence of His HOLY SPIRIT, purifies, 
reforms, regenerates, and finally elevates them to conjunction of life with Himself. As therefore 
a belief in THE INCARNATE GOD is the duty to which every Christian is, called; so to see the glory
of GOD is the high privilege and distinguished blessing annexed to that duty, and resulting from 
it.

Q. But it follows, that when the BLESSED JEsus had spoken these words, then they took away the 
stone from the place where the dead was laid. And JESUS lifted up (His) eyes, and said, Father, I 
thank You that you have heard Me, and I knew that You hearest Me always ; but because of the 
people that stand by I said (it), that they may believe that You have sent Me — what instruction 
do you learn from these words?

A. I learn from these words a most edifying lesson in two distinct respects, first, that the stone 
was then removed from where the dead man lay, as soon as the BLESSED JESUS uttered the words 
of eternal truth and power, Said I not to you, that if you would believe, you should see the glory 
of GOD? for by removing the stone, as was above observed, is spiritually signified the removal 
and dispersion of false principles and persuasions in the natural or unregenerate mind, which can 
only be effected by the revelation of the ETERNAL TRUTH; secondly, that the BLESSED JESUS, in 
His exchange with the FATHER, whether in the way of prayer or of thanksgiving, always 
addressed Him as a being in and one with Himself, and that if He appeared at any time to address
a being out of and separate from Himself, it was for the sake of others, or, as it is here expressed,
because of the people which stood by. Thus, on another occasion, when there came a voice from 
heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again, JESUS answered and said, This 
voice came not because of Me, but for your sakes, (John 12:29, 30). It is well therefore to be 
understood, that all the expressions in the evangelical history, which speak of the BLESSED JESUS 
as praying to the FATHER, as coming to do the will of the FATHER, and as being sent of the FATHER,
and which thus suggest the idea of two separate and distinct beings or persons, are to be 
interpreted of one and the same being, inasmuch as the FATHER was the essential life and soul of 
the HUMANITY of the BLESSED JESUS, whilst that HUMANITY was consequently the body, which, 
proceeding from that life and soul, was perpetually obedient to it, and by such obedience became
finally united with it in such a sort, as to become the FIRST and the LAST, the ALPHA and OMEGA, 
the BEGINNING and the ENDING of all divine life, power and benediction, consequently GOD ever 
ALL, blessed for ever, (see Rev. 1:8, 17. Rom. 9:5).

Q. And how do you understand the words which follow, where it is said, When He had thus 
spoken, He cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth?

A. By the words, when He had thus spoken, is to be understood, when He had thus proclaimed 
his one-ness and union with the FATHER, for in the foregoing verse He had been speaking of that 
one-ness and union: it therefore follows, that He cried with a loud [or great] voice; because 
crying has reference to the will or love, in this case therefore to the divine will or love; and a 
great voice is expressive of the divine wisdom of that love; thus by crying with a loud voice is 
here signified the omnipotence of the divine wisdom proceeding from the HUMANITY of the 
BLESSED JESUS in union with His DIVINITY. It accordingly follows, Lazarus, come forth, because 

- 134-

the wisdom of the divine love is continually in operation to raise all things and principles out of 
death into life, thus out of darkness into light, consequently out of misery into bliss, and out of a 
state of separation from GOD, into a state of eternal conjunction of life with Him. The divine 
words, therefore, Lazarus, come forth, apply, on this occasion, not only to the dead body of him 
who had been four days in the grave, but likewise to all people, nations, and individuals 
whatever, who are dead in trespasses and sins to the knowledge and enjoyment of their proper 
life in the love of GOD and heaven, calling them to the recovery of that life, and with this view to 
the exercise of those faculties which GOD has given them, and thus to the elevation of their 
affections and thoughts out of that grave of selfish and worldly love, in which they had been 
before entombed.

Q. And what do you conceive to be meant when it is said, And he that was dead came forth, 
bound hand and foot with grave-clothes, and his face was bound about with a napkin?

A. According to the literal sense of these words, they relate to the dead body of the deceased 
Lazarus, and were literally fulfilled by the resurrection of that body; but according to the spiritual
sense, the words relate to dead principles, whether in the church in general, or in the individuals 
who compose it, implying resurrection out of those principles, thus elevation of human affections
and thoughts to the GREAT and HOLY GOD and His eternal kingdom. Agreeable to this sense of the 
words, by being bound hand and foot with grave-clothes, is to be understood the imprisonment 
of all thought both interior and exterior by false principles and persuasions; and by the face 
being bound about with a napkin, is meant a similar imprisonment of the love and affection, for 
the face is a representative image of those interior principles, and is accordingly applied in the 
sacred Scriptures.

Q. But it follows, JESUS saith to them, Loose him, and let him go — how do you understand these
words?

A. The BLESSED JESUS is not content with calling forth dead men and dead principles to a 
resurrection to life and blessedness, but His omnipotent voice further operates to the restoration 
of their spiritual liberty, by breaking the bonds of those false persuasions in which they had been 
before imprisoned. The divine words therefore, Loose him, and let him go, apply in this case, not 
only to the deceased Lazarus, but also to all those who have been at any time, or who are tied 
and bound with the chain of erroneous doctrines, of heretical tenets, of false imaginations, and of
perverse thoughts, calling them to break their bonds, by exercising the liberty which GOD has 
given them of thinking in agreement with His HOLY WORD, and thus of forming their 
understandings according to the light of the ETERNAL TRUTH, and their lives according to their 
understandings. It is to be remarked that the words Loose him, have reference to the above 
liberation of the affections and thoughts, and that the words let him go, relate to the formation of 
the life according to the truth by which that liberation was effected.

Q. And what instruction do you derive from the concluding words of this history, where it is 
written, that then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which JESUS 

- 135-

did, believed on Him; but some of them went their way to the Pharisees, and told them what 
things JESUS had done?

A. I learn from these words how much depends on the temper and disposition of mind, in which 
people hear and read the word and meditate on the works of GOD, because in all ages of the 
world both the word and the works of GOD have divided the sentiments of mankind, leading 
some to a full acknowledgement and adoration of the goodness and wisdom of the ALMIGHTY, 
whilst they have led others to despise and reject both His wisdom and His goodness. This 
observation is remarkably verified in the present instance, where the resurrection of the dead 
Lazarus induces many to believe in the GREAT INCARNATE GOD, and some to go and tell it to the 
Pharisees; thus proving incontestably that no miracle, however well attested, and not even the 
rising of one from the dead can induce men to believe in a divine agency and operation, unless 
there be a previous disposition to admit the truth, and to be persuaded by it. So true are those 
words of the GREAT SAVIOUR on another occasion, Every one that does evil hates the light, 
neither comes to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved; but he that does truth comes to the 
light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are worked in God, (John iii. 20, 21).

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from the above miracle?

A. From the literal sense of this miracle, I am taught again to adore that omnipotent word of my 
SAVIOUR GOD, which was able to call forth a dead man from his tomb, in which he had laid 
during a period of four days; and from the spiritual sense of the same history, I am further 
instructed respecting the boundless power of the same DIVINE WORD, in raising up to life both 
churches, and the individuals who compose them, when they also have been long dead in 
trespasses and sins. I am yet further instructed, that on the occasion of this spiritual resurrection, 
the first injunction of the ETERNAL TRUTH is to take away the stone; in other words, to remove 
from the heart and life all those false principles and persuasions, which, having their origin in 
infernal loves, tend to alienate the soul from GOD, by rendering it insensible to the blessing of 
His mercy and truth; and the second is, to come forth; in other words, to elevate the affections 
and thoughts to an eternal object, by raising them above the shadowy perishable goods of this, 
lower world, to the possession and enjoyment of a substantial and permanent bliss in the love 
and favour of the GREAT FATHER OF BEING. I am resolved, therefore, from now on to attend 
carefully and continually to this spiritual resurrection in my own mind and life, that so I may no 
longer lie dead and buried in the grave of mere earthly attachments, bodily appetites, and selfish 
affections, but, listening to the loud voice of my SAVIOUR GOD, may rise to the contemplation and
enjoyment of the SUPREME GOOD in the unfeigned love of Him, and of my fellow-creatures. Thus
may I humbly hope to hear, in spirit and in effect, the reviving consolatory words, Lazarus, come
forth, and in obedience to the divine command, I also, like Lazarus of old, shall come forth from 
my dark sepulchre, to be a living monument to all eternity of the divine mercy and omnipotence, 
and to join in the blessed song, O death, I will be your plagues; O grave, I will be your 
destruction, (Hosea 13:14). AMEN.

- 136-

- 137-

 
The Resurrection And Ascension Of Jesus Christ

Matthew 28:1 to the end. 
Mark 16:1-the end. 
Luke. 24:1-the end. 
John xx. xxi. throughout.

THE particular circumstances recorded in the evangelical history relative to these two grand 
events, like those connected with the resurrection of Lazarus, in the preceding miracle, are so 
numerous and so important, that it would require a volume to give an explanation of each 
distinctly. It is therefore thought proper, as in the foregoing miracle, to make a selection of the 
more distinguished parts, which enter into the composition of the above histories, and it is hoped 
that a satisfactory explanation of them will be found in the following questions and answers.

Q. Are you quite correct, when you rank the resurrection and ascension of the BLESSED JESUS 
under the class of miracles which He worked?

A. Yes; for no one can doubt but that each of those events required a supernatural agency for its 
accomplishment, consequently that it was miraculous; and it is alike evident that each event was 
worked by JESUS CHRIST Himself, and not by any other being, since He Himself declares 
concerning His resurrection, I lay down my life that I might take it again. No man takes it from 
Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again, 
(John 10:17,18); and again, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. But He spoke
of the temple of His body, (John 2:19, 21). It is manifest, therefore, from these words, that the 
BLESSED JESUS rose again from the dead by His own divine energy, or by virtue of the DIVINITY 
within Himself, and not only so, but that of Himself He laid down His life, and that consequently
the Jews had no power to crucify Him but what He gave them. And as we are thus constrained by
the testimony of JESUS CHRIST to assert, that He raised Himself from the dead by His own divine
energy, so are we constrained in like manner to refer His ascension to the same source of 
omnipotence, and thus, to insist, that no other power but His own was instrumental in effecting 
it.

Q. What do you conceive to be the evidence, on which the grand facts of the resurrection and 
ascension of the BLESSED JESUS rest, and by which they are supported?

A. The evidence in favour of both these facts is as strong and conclusive, or more so, than that by
which any other historical fact whatever is established; for it is an evidence grounded in 
prophecy, and confirmed by the senses of a great number of witnesses. That it is grounded in 
prophecy, is manifest from all those various passages in the sacred Scriptures, in which the facts 
to which it relates are predicted; and that it was confirmed by the senses of a multitude of 
witnesses, is alike evident from every part of the gospel history in which those facts are 
recorded-. Thus the BLESSED JESUS, after His resurrection, was first seen by some pious women, 
next by some of His apostles, afterwards by them all, and lastly, as St. Paul testifies, by five 

- 138-

hundred brethren at once. He did also eat and converse with many of His disciples; and His 
resurrection was further confirmed by the vision and voice of angelic beings. (See Matthew 28:2-
8. Mark 16:5. Luke 24:4-8). There cannot therefore remain a single doubt in the well-disposed 
mind, respecting the undeniable evidence by which the above facts are supported, and on which 
they rest.

Q. Is it to be supposed that the blessed JESUS rose from the grave with His whole body complete,
or, as some conceive, that its material part was dissipated in the tomb, and that thus He rose 
merely in a spiritual body, such as the angels have?

A. It is to be supposed that He rose with His whole body complete, and that He left nothing 
behind Him in the sepulchre, consequently that the material body was not dissipated, but 
glorified; and this idea seems confirmed by His own words to His disciples after His 
resurrection. For when, on this occasion, they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that 
they had seen a spirit, He said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do thoughts arise in your 
hearts? Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; handle me and see, for a spirit has not 
flesh and bones as you see me have. And when He had thus spoken, He showed them His hands 
and His feet, (Luke 24:37-41). It is evident, therefore, that the BLESSED JESUS rose from the 
grave with the same identical body of flesh and bones, which had been laid in the grave, and 
which might still be handled and seen, consequently that His resurrection-body was not mere 
spirit, for He says, a spirit hath not flesh and bones as you see me have; and this idea is further 
confirmed by what He says to Thomas on the occasion, Reach here your finger, and behold My 
hands, and reach here your hand and thrust it into my side, and be not faithless but believing, 
(John 20:27), from which words it is manifest that the hands and the side of the LORD'S 
resurrection-body were still the same, and in the same perforated state, as when the body was 
deposited in the tomb.

Q. What then do you conceive to have been the peculiar quality of the LORD'S resurrection-body, 
as distinguished from the bodies of men and of angels?

A. It is perhaps out of the reach of finite intelligences fully to comprehend what was the precise 
quality of the LORD'S body at the resurrection. This only we know of a certainty, that it was 
derived entirely from the DIVINITY in Himself, and that no particle of it was derived from the 
mother Mary, for the body which He had from the mother Mary, was successively put off, until 
He became no longer her Son, as was shown above, in treating of the miracle of water turned 
into wine at the marriage of Cana of Galilee, on which occasion JESUS calls His mother, Woman, 
thus intimating that He was no longer her Son. but was by nativity as well as conception the SON 
OF GOD. The body then, in which the BLESSED JESUS appeared after His resurrection, had an 
immediate divine origin, being formed successively from a divine soul, and thus partaking of 
divine qualities, which completely distinguished it from all other bodies, whether of men or of 
angels. Perhaps DIVINE SUBSTANTIALITY is the most characteristic term by which the distinction 
can be marked, so that whilst the body of a man is called material, and the body of an angel, 
spiritual, the resurrection-body of the LORD may be fitly and properly called a DIVINE 
SUBSTANTIAL BODY.

- 139-

Q. And what do you conceive further to have been the quality of the LORD'S body after the 
resurrection, as distinguished from its quality when He was alive in the world?

A. By the passion of the cross, which was the last temptation endured by the BLESSED JESUS, it is
reasonable to suppose that a deeper humiliation of the humanity was effected, than had before 
taken place, and thus that hereditary evil, contracted from the mother, was more completely and 
radically removed. This being the case, it is reasonable to suppose further, that when the 
DIVINITY began again to operate, as in the tomb, on this entirely submissive and purified 
humanity, it would take a more entire possession than it had done before, until at length the 
possession was complete, and the humanity became what may most properly be called a DIVINE 
HUMANITY. This increase of divine virtue and life in the humanity had been before hinted at and 
accounted for in those remarkable words of JESUS CHRIST, where He says, Except a corn of 
wheat fall into the ground and die, it abides alone, but if it die, it brings forth much fruit, (John 
12:24); for the BLESSED JESUS is here speaking of Himself, His own sufferings, death, and 
resurrection, intimating by this most significant language, that without sufferings and death, His 
humanity must have abided alone, or not fully united with its divinity, but that by sufferings and 
death His humanity became so entirely submitted, as to be capable of entering into the closest 
union with its divinity, which was its bearing much fruit. The same also is true in regard to man, 
who, it is well known, when humbled by trials and sufferings, is rendered capable of admitting 
into Himself more of spiritual life than before, and the only difference between the BLESSED 
JESUS and His creatures, in this respect, is, that His creatures by trials and sufferings become 
more accepting of spiritual life, whereas He became more accepting of DIVINE life, thus of the 
ESSENTIAL DIVINITY.

Q. You say that the passion of the cross was the last temptation endured by the BLESSED JESUS, 
and you seem to regard it, not as constituting in itself the redemption of man, but only as a 
process leading to redemption — in what then do you suppose the redemption of man properly 
consists?

A. The redemption of man properly consists in the subjugation of the powers of darkness, in the 
orderly arrangement of the heavens, and in the consequent establishment of a new church here on
earth, all which divine acts were performed by the BLESSED JESUS during His abode here on 
earth, through the process of His various sufferings and temptations, which were nothing else but
combats against the infernal hosts, for the purpose of removing them from man. It has indeed 
been generally supposed that the passion of the cross was itself redemption, and that by the 
vicarious sacrifice there offered for the sins of the world, a full and sufficient satisfaction was 
made to the offended justice of the ALMIGHTY, and mankind were thus placed in a state of 
reconciliation and acceptance with Him. But this idea vanishes at once, when it is considered 
what is the genuine idea of redemption as above stated, and that the ALMIGHTY required no 
satisfaction but to see His creatures made wise, and holy, and happy, which satisfaction He 
Himself provided for Himself by appearing here below in the flesh or human nature, by 
combating in that nature and overcoming the enemies of man's salvation, by giving man access 
to himself in the humanity which He had assumed, and by finally glorifying that humanity, or 

- 140-

making it divine, that so He might keep heaven for ever open to all such as were disposed to 
enter, by following Him in the same process to glory.

Q. What then do you conceive to be the difference between the state of the LORD'S humanity at 
the time of His resurrection and the state into which it entered at the period of His ascension?

 A. To compare great things with small, the difference was the same, as between a mighty 
conqueror here on earth, when he has just gained a signal victory over his enemies, and the same 
conqueror, when he begins to rest from his labours of combat, and to enter into the tranquillity of
peace and the fruit of victory. The BLESSED JESUS therefore, when His divine combats were 
completed, of which he gave a proof in His resurrection-glory, did not immediately enter into the
rest which was the proposed end of those combats, by fully glorifying His humanity, or uniting it 
fully with His divinity, and therefore, at this period He says to Mary Magdalene, Touch me not, 
for I am not yet ascended to my Father, (John 20:17). It appears therefore, that the interval of 
state between the resurrection and the ascension was an interval agreeable to the divine order, 
which required a marked distinction to be made between the period of spiritual victory, and the 
period of rest, to which that victory leads, and this with a view to the instruction of man in his 
spiritual progress, by teaching him the important lesson, that a state of temptation, even though 
he conquers in it, is always succeeded by a state of fluctuation, and that a further process in that 
state of fluctuation is necessary, before he enters into the full rest and enjoyment of His 
conquests.

Q. And how do you understand the terms ascending and ascension, as applied to the body or 
humanity of JESUS CHRIST?

A. According to their literal sense, these terms mean going up on high, but according to their 
spiritual sense, they mean approaching to what is inmost, that is to say, to the DIVINE BEING, who
is in the inmost of all beings, of all things, and of all principles, and who is therefore called, The 
HIGHEST, because He is the inmost and central life of all existence. When therefore the body or 
humanity of JESUS CHRIST is said to ascend; by this expression is to be understood that it entered
into the closest union with the DIVINITY from whom it came forth, agreeable to those words of 
JESUS CHRIST in another place, I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world; again,
I leave the world, and go to the Father, (John xvi. 28). An external appearance indeed of ascent 
was exhibited on the occasion to His disciples, who therefore saw him as ascending into the 
visible heavens, whilst a cloud received Him out of their sight but this is to be understood merely
as an appearance, accommodated to the apprehension of the natural man, yet as an appearance 
grounded and connected with the grand reality in which it originated, which reality was nothing 
else, but the full and complete union of divinity with humanity, and of humanity with divinity, in 
the glorified person of the BLESSED JESUS, until the humanity became a DIVINE HUMANITY, and 
was thus consecrated to be the eternal abode and living temple of the most HIGH GOD, having all 
power both in heaven and in earth, and being the FIRST and the LAST, the BEGINNING and the 
ENDING, which is, which was, and which is to come, THE ALMIGHTY, (Matthew 28:18. Rev. 1:8, 
17).

- 141-

Q. But it is written on this occasion in the gospel according to Mark, That Hewas received up 
into heaven, and sat on the right hand of GOD, (Mark 16:9). — how do you understand these 
expressions as applied to the body or humanity of the BLESSED JESUS?

A. By being received up into heaven, is to be understood into the angelic heaven, where angels 
dwell; and by sitting on the right hand of GOD, is further to be understood, not sitting at the right 
hand of another Being separate from Himself, but possessing OMNIPOTENCE, which is properly 
signified by the right hand of GOD; and therefore in another passage, JESUS CHRIST Himself calls 
it sitting at the right hand of power, (Matthew 26:64). Thus to sit on the right hand of GOD is only
another expression to denote that He had all power both in heaven and in earth, as He Himself 
testifies, Matthew 28:18.

Q. What then do you conceive to be the divine purposes, uses and benefits announced to the 
world by the manifestation of GOD here below in a BODY or HUMANITY, also by the sufferings and
death of that BODY or HUMANITY; and lastly, by its resurrection and final ascension?

A. The manifestation of GOD here below in a BODY or HUMANITY, is an assurance to mankind, in 
the first place, of the ardency of the divine love towards them, and of the fixedness of the divine 
purpose to promote their eternal happiness. For by this manifestation, the FATHER OF MERCIES 
appeared as a MAN, and thus in a human form made Himself known and visible to His creatures, 
who had before lost all knowledge and apprehension both of His being and of His attributes. 
Under this manifestation too He tenderly invited, and even vehemently pressed them to come to 
Him, that they might receive remission of sins and eternal life. By the same manifestation also 
He became their instructor, opening to their intellectual view the interior truths of the WORD of 
the OLD TESTAMENT, and revealing at the same time a NEW WORD or TESTAMENT, which being 
committed to writing, might stand in His place, and speak with His Voice, as a perpetual 
instructor to the most remote generations. At the same time, in and by the same BODY or 
HUMANITY, He set the world an example of that pure and perfect order of life which leads to. 
bliss, teaching mankind that as He, as to His BODY or HUMANITY, was always pressing towards 
an eternal union with the DIVINITY from whom He came forth, in like manner it is both the duty 
and happiness of His creatures to aspire perpetually after conjunction with Himself, the SUPREME
GOOD and the SUPREME TRUTH.

Q. And what do you conceive to be the divine purposes, uses and benefits announced to the 
world by the sufferings and death of this BODY or HUMANITY?

A. By His sufferings and death the BLESSED JESUS waged a powerful and successful warfare 
against the enemies of man's salvation, the devil, the world and the flesh, destroying the 
dominion of the first, so that whereas he had before gained an undue ascendancy over both the 
minds and bodies of men, he was now subjugated, and his goods spoiled by one stronger than 
himself. In like manner, the seductions of the world and of the flesh were forced to confess their 
conqueror, and mankind were thus set more at liberty from their delusions and enchantments. But
this divine warrior was not content with being himself both a combatant and a conqueror. He 
called also His disciples to follow Him in His warfare and His victories, and at the same time by 

- 142-

His DIVINE EXAMPLE He gave them power to follow Him. Thus, all who were wise to repent of 
their sins, and pant after renovation of life, found a pattern of patience and a renewal of strength 
in the suffering HUMANITY of the holy JESUS, and supported by His example experienced the 
truth and comfort, of His. words. You shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into 
joy, (John 16:20); And again, A woman, when she is in travail, has sorrow, because her hour is 
come; but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembers no more the anguish for joy 
that a man is born into the world, (John 16:21).

Q. And what do you conceive to be the divine purposes, uses and benefits announced to the 
world by the resurrection and ascension of the BODY or HUMANITY of JESUS CHRIST.

A. By His resurrection, JESUS CHRIST gave a most unequivocal and convincing proof to the 
world of the existence and operation of a divine power, superior to death and the grave, and to all
the powers of hell, of sin, and of darkness, in His RISING BODY therefore we behold the total 
annihilation of the infidel's creed, together with the revival of every virtuous hope, and the 
vivification, illumination, and support of every virtuous energy. Because I live, you shall live 
also, is now become the Christian's motto, which he binds for a sign upon his hands, and as 
frontlets between his eyes, confirming to him the covenant of his GOD, opening to his delighted 
view a bright futurity, and encouraging him to run with patience the race that is set before him. 
Again, by His ascension, the BLESSED JESUS announces to all His pious followers, that the 
FATHER OF ETERNITY no longer dwells either in inaccessible light, or inaccessible darkness, but in
a visible BODY or HUMANITY, in which He may be at once seen, known, loved, approached, 
worshipped and enjoyed by an everlasting conjunction with Him in life and purity. The true 
believer therefore is no longer perplexed about the object of his worship, but drawing near to the 
GLORIFIED or DIVINE HUMANITY of JESUS CHRIST, in His ascension-glory, and believing that in 
Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, (Col. 1:9); and that this is the TRUE GOD and 
ETERNAL LIFE, (1 John 5:20), he experiences deliverance from error, confirmation of faith, 
consolation of hope, whilst he views his GOD as a DIVINE MAN, and hears Him say, Where I am, 
there shall also my servant be. (John 12:26).

Q. Do you regard then the resurrection and ascension of the REDEEMER'S BODY as any security 
for the resurrection and ascension of your own body?

A. If by my own body you mean that material body of flesh and blood which I at present carry 
about me, I do not conceive that the resurrection and ascension of the BLESSED JESUS are any 
security for the resurrection of this body, because I am constrained to believe with St. Paul, that 
flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of GOD, (1 Corin. 15:50); and further, that it is sown a
natural body, and raised ' a spiritual body, (ver. 44). Nevertheless, though I cannot believe that 
the material body of flesh and blood will ever be raised after death out of its dark tomb of 
corruption, yet I am fully persuaded that a spiritual body will be raised, and if the life has been 
formed according to the laws of heavenly truth and order, will be qualified to live for ever in the 
enjoyment of bliss in the kingdom of GOD, In this respect, therefore, the resurrection of JESUS 
CHRIST differed from the resurrection of other men, inasmuch as He rose again and ascended into
heaven with His whole body complete, leaving nothing behind Him in the tomb; whereas other 

- 143-

men rise only with spiritual bodies, agreeable to the words of the BLESSED JESUS to His disciples 
after His resurrection, A spirit has not flesh and bones as you see me have, (Luke 24:39).

Q. Do you recollect any miracle worked by the BLESSED JESUS between the period of His 
resurrection and H is ascension?

A. Yes; He repeated the miracle of the miraculous drain of fishes recorded by Saint Luke, (ch. v).
and explained above.

Q. And in what particulars do the two miracles differ from each other?

A. The miracle worked after the resurrection differs from the former miracle in these two 
particulars, First, that JESUS ordered the disciples to cast the net on the right side of the ship, and 
Secondly, that although there were so many (fishes), yet was not the net broken, (John 21:6 and 
11).

Q. And what instruction do you learn from these two circumstances of distinction?

A. From the divine command to cast the net on the right side of the ship, I learn the important 
duty binding on all spiritual fishers, or instructors in heavenly truth, to fish, or instruct, under the
influence of heaven-born love and charity, and thus to take good heed lest at any time they 
separate knowledge from the life of knowledge, or truth from its good, or what amounts to the 
same, the speculative doctrines of faith from the pure and essential life of charity. And from the 
second remarkable particular of the net not breaking, I learn the further edifying lesson, that if 
the above command be attended to, the gospel net, in such case, remains entire and unbroken; in 
other words, the doctrines of evangelical truth preserve their coherence and consistency, no error 
or heresy can disturb the church, and mankind receive in due measure the light of faith and the 
life of love, consequently become that blessed church, of which JESUS CHRIST speaks in another 
place where He says, The gates of hell shall not prevail against it.

Q. Can you see any reason why the BLESSED JESUS, after His resurrection, performed the above 
miracle in preference to any other?

A. Yes; and the reason appears to be grounded in the representation, or figurative character, of 
the above miracle, according to which it relates to the formation and establishment of a new 
church here on earth by the dissemination of evangelical truth or knowledge, which was one 
great purpose of the LORD'S coming into the world. The above miracle, therefore, is in close 
connection with what He says to His disciples in another place, and this also after His 
resurrection, Go you therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, 
and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost; teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have 
commanded you, (Matthew 28:19, 20); for whether we speak of fishing, or of teaching all 
nations, the meaning is still the same, according to the spiritual idea; and again, whether we 
speak of teaching all nations, or of establishing a church, the meaning is the same, since the 
church can only be founded and established by instruction in heavenly truths. It should seem, 

- 144-

therefore, that the BLESSED JESUS performed the above miracle in preference to any other, by 
reason of its superior interest and importance in regard to that glorious new church which He 
came to establish, and which He was well aware never could be established, unless the ministers 
and instructors in that church were attentive to that law of His eternal order, to cast the net on the
right side of the ship, or, as the words have been above explained, to teach the doctrines of faith 
under the influence of charity, and thus to take heed, lest selfish and worldly love, the inordinate 
desires of human glory or gain, should mix themselves with instruction, and in so doing should 
break the gospel net, by destroying the consistency and coherence of the truths of which it is 
composed.

Q. But in the history of the above miracle it is recorded, that Simon Peter went up, and drew the 
net to land full of great fishes, a hundred and fifty and three, (John 21:11). — Do you conceive 
that there is any particular spiritual meaning involved in the number, a hundred and fifty and 
three, which is here said to be the number of great fishes which had been taken?

A. Yes; there is every good reason to believe, that all numbers mentioned in the sacred 
Scriptures, or WORD of GOD, have a spiritual signification, inasmuch as the WORD of GOD 
throughout must of necessity contain in it spiritual truth, or truth relating to GOD and His eternal 
kingdom, and if it did not contain such truth, it could not be the WORD of GOD, We are 
constrained, therefore, to say; that all numbers, which are recorded in the WORD of GOD, involve 
in them something spiritual, and that consequently the number a hundred and fifty and three, 
which occurs in the history of the above miracle, has a spiritual signification, which applies, not 
only to the great fishes taken on the occasion, but to those who were signified and represented by
the great fishes.

Q. And what do you suppose to be the spiritual import of that number?

A. The number, a hundred and fifty and three, is composed of three distinct numbers, each of 
which involves in it the idea of what is full, and complete, for the number a hundred, when 
mentioned alone, involves that idea, in like manner the numbers fifty and three, when each of 
them is mentioned separately. The combination then of these three numbers implies what is full 
and complete in the highest possible degree, and it is accordingly adopted, in the present 
instance, to denote the full and complete state of the church's increase, whenever the net is cast 
on the right side of the ship; in other words, whenever evangelical truth is taught under the 
influence of heaven-born charity. It is said on this occasion, that Simon Peter went up, because 
by Peter, as has been observed in treating of a former miracle, is to be understood the principle of
faith in the church, and this principle is always elevated, or goes up, whensoever it submits itself 
to the dominion of charity. For the same reason the fishes here spoken of are called great fishes, 
because the terms great and greatness, in the WORD of GOD, have always respect to the principle 
of love and charity, communicated from the GREAT and HOLY GOD. Unless some internal spiritual 
meaning, of this description, had been intended to be expressed by the great fishes here spoken 
of, also by Simon Peter going up, and likewise by the number a hundred and fifty and three, both
the size of the fishes, the ascent of the apostle, and the number, a hundred and fifty and three, 

- 145-

would have been things too trivial to have found a place in the sacred volume of divine 
inspiration, the WORD of the MOST HIGH GOD.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from the two miracles of the 
resurrection and ascension of JESUS CHRIST?

A. From these two miracles I am taught to adore the mercy and omnipotence of the INCARNATE 
GOD, manifested in the accomplishment of the most extraordinary and sublime work ever 
recorded in the page of any history human or divine, I mean the complete victory over death and 
the powers of darkness announced by the former miracle, and the full and complete union of the, 
divine and human natures announced by the latter. In the rising JESUS I therefore behold, to mine 
unspeakable consolation, a practical comment on those prophetical words, O death, I will be 
your plagues; O grave, I will be your destruction, (Hosea 13:14); and also on those words of His 
own, I am the resurrection and the life; he that believes in Me, though he were dead, yet shall he 
live; and whoever lives and believes in Me, shall never die, (John xi 25, 26). In the ascending 
JESUS also I read another practical comment on His own words, where He says, I came forth 
from the Father, and am come into the world; again, I leave the world and go to the Father, 
(John 16:28); and in another place, And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the 
world, and I come to you, (John 17:11). And again, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is 
glorified in Him. If God be glorified in Him, God shall also glorify Him in Himself, and shall 
straightway glorify Him, (John 13:31, 32).In the rising and ascending JESUS therefore, I behold 
the signing and sealing of the gospel covenant, together with the completion of all the promises 
of GOD, because I see death conquered, the powers of darkness subjugated, GOD made man, and 
man made GOD, heaven thus kept continually open in the DIVINE HUMANITY of the GLORIFIED 
SAVIOUR, and all admitted, who are disposed to repent of their sins, and to believe in that 
manifested GOD who came to deliver them from the power of sin. Here therefore I make the 
interesting and delightful discovery, that there is but ONE GOD in the church, and that the LORD 
and SAVIOUR JESUS CHRIST in His DIVINE HUMANITY is that GOD, being CREATOR from eternity, 
REDEEMER in time, and REGENERATOR to eternity. Here therefore I am admitted by the eye of 
faith, to a participation of the blessed vision seen by the beloved apostle of old, when, as He 
Himself describes it, He saw seven golden candlesticks, and in the midst of the seven 
candlesticks one like the Son of Man clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt about the 
paps with a golden girdle. His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow, and 
His eyes were as a flame of fire; and His feet like fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and 
His voice as the sound of many waters. And He had in His right hand seven stars, and out of His 
mouth went a sharp two-edged sword; and His countenance was as the sun shines in his 
strength, (Rev. i. 12 to 17). I. am resolved therefore henceforth to take this GOD for my GOD, and 
thus to approach and worship the INVISIBLE FATHER in the VISIBLE HUMANITY, which He has been
pleased to assume and unite with Himself as the sacred medium, by and through which all His 
penitent children may have perpetual access to Him, and He to them. I am resolved further to 
repent me of all my sins, and endeavour to enter into that process of renewed life, to which my 
SAVIOUR invites me both by His precepts and His example. Thus may I encourage the blessed 
hope, that that SAVIOUR will mercifully accomplish in me, in miniature, the same blessed work 
which He accomplished, when here on earth, in all its magnitude, by first instructing me in the 

- 146-

ways of His righteousness, and afterwards conducting ma, through His cross and sufferings, to 
the subjugation of all sin and the powers of darkness, until finally He arises also from the dead in
me, and is exalted in ascension-glory to the supreme dominion in my love and life, by virtue of 
which exaltation I shall be enabled to join in the song of the ever-blessed, Worthy is the LAMB 
that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, 
and blessing, (Rev. v, 12); and again, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of 
our GOD, and the power of His CHRIST [the DIVINE HUMANITY,] for the accuser of our brethren is
cast down, which accused them before our GOD day and night, (Rev. 12:10). AMEN.

- 147-

The Miracle of Pentecost

Acts 2:1-37.

And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place; and 
suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house 
where they were sitting; and there appeared to them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat 
upon each of them; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other 
tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance, etc.

Q. WHAT do you here understand by the day of Pentecost?

A. The word Pentecost is derived from the Greek word Pentecoste which signifies the fiftieth, 
because the feast of Pentecost was celebrated the fiftieth day after the sixteenth of Nisan, which 
was the second day of the feast of the passover. The Hebrews call it the feast of weeks, Exod. 
34:22, because it was kept seven weeks after the passover. On the sixteenth day of the month 
Nisan, or March, the wave-offering of the first sheaf was to be made, to implore the divine 
blessing on the ensuing harvest, which began about that time, that climate being so much warmer
and forwarder than ours: and fifty days being allowed with that for the getting in all their corn, 
that is, the remaining fifteen in Nisan, (March), and twenty-nine in Ijar or Zif, (April), the sixth 
of Sivan (May) would be the day of Pentecost; when they were to hold the solemn festival of 
thanksgiving, for their participation of the harvest, together with a grateful commemoration of 
their being delivered from Egyptian servitude, and enjoying their property by reaping the fruits 
of their labours, Levit. 23:10, 11, etc. The learned have observed, that the very day of Pentecost 
was the same day on which God delivered the law from mount Sinai, Exod. 19:11, as it was that 
on which the apostles were filled with the Holy Ghost, and the gospel was attended with 
remarkable success.

Q. And what do you understand by their being all, on this occasion, with one accord in one 
place?

A. In the original Greek there is no mention here made of place, but it is expressed eis to auto, 
which more properly signifies for this (purpose), to denote that they were all of one mind to 
celebrate the solemn feast of Pentecost, which was the object of their assembling.

Q. And what do you conceive to be here meant by the words, Suddenly there came a sound from 
heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting?

A. According to the literal sense of this miracle, these words are to be understood literally, 
because they were literally true; but according to the spiritual sense, they are to be understood 
spiritually, and are to be interpreted in agreement with the general law of interpretation, when 
applied to signs or symbols from heaven. According, therefore, to this law, by a sound from 
heaven, is to be understood the operation of a principle which affects the will, because sound 

- 148-

applies itself to the sense of hearing, and hearing is a sense more subject to and connected with 
the will of man, as the sense of sight is more subject to and connected with the understanding. 
By a sound from heaven then, on this occasion, was intended to be expressed the operation of the
divine love which prevails in heaven, and which was designed, according to this symbolical 
language, to prevail on earth, and therefore it is written, that it was as a rushing mighty wind, 
and filled all the house where they were sitting, because by a rushing mighty wind was figured 
the powerful influence by which it was felt and perceived; and by its filling all the house where 
they were sitting, is further denoted its taking entire possession of the minds of those who were 
assembled in the house.

Q. But it is written, There appeared to them cloven tongues like as of a fire, and it sat upon each 
of them — how do you understand these words?

A. These words again are figurative, and the things which they express, as the cloven tongues 
and the fire, are representative of spiritual things, agreeable to the mode observable in the sacred 
Scriptures throughout, of expressing heavenly principles by natural images. These images were 
indeed presented to the view of the apostles in the manner here described, but then it is to be 
observed that they involved in them spiritual realities, which corresponded with them, Thus, by 
the image of a tongue was figured its corresponding spiritual reality, which is nothing else but 
the thought, persuasion, or doctrine, which the tongue is instrumental in uttering; and thus too by
the image of a fire, was expressed the principle to which fire corresponds, which is nothing else 
but the principle of love, whether it be good or evil.

Q. Can you mention any passages in the sacred Scriptures which prove, that a tongue and that 
fire are applied according to the spiritual sense which you here speak of?

A. That the tongue is applied to express spiritual thought, persuasion, or doctrine, is manifest 
from the following passages, Your tongue frames deceit, (Ps. 50:14); and again, Their tongue 
walks through the earth, (Ps. 75:9); and again, They have spoken against me with a lying tongue, 
(Ps. 109:2); not to mention many other passages to the same purport, where it must be evident to 
every attentive reader, that the tongue is applied to express what the tongue utters, namely. a 
man's ruling persuasions, or the doctrines which he conceives to be true, for how else can the 
tongue be said to frame deceit, to walk through the earth, and to be a lying tongue? That fire too 
is applied to express the principle of love, whether it be good or evil, is alike evident from the 
following passages, My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire kindled, (Ps. 39:3); 
They have cast fire into your sanctuary, they have defiled the dwelling-place of your name to the 
ground, (Ps. 74:7); and again, John the Baptist testifies concerning JESUS CHRIST, He shall 
baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire, (Matthew 3:11); and again, JESUS CHRIST Himself
says, I am come to send fire upon earth, and what will I if it be already kindled? (Luke 12:49), 
and again, Every one shall be salted with fire, (Mark 9:49); from all which passages it is most 
evident, that fire is applied in the sacred scriptures both in a good and bad sense, and that in a 
good sense it denotes heavenly love, and in a bad sense, infernal love. When therefore it is said, 
as above, that there appeared cloven tongues like as of fire, by this representation was intended to
be figured the doctrine of heavenly truth which was to be taught from that period by the apostles,

- 149-

together with the warmth of heavenly love from which they would teach. Therefore the tongues 
are said to be cloven, because cloven has respect to the two-fold love from which they were to 
teach, namely. love towards GOD, and neighbourly love; in other words, it has respect to the two-
fold doctrine which they were to publish to the world, namely. the doctrine of good, and the 
doctrine of truth, or the doctrine of charity, and the doctrine of faith.

Q. And what do you understand by the concluding words of the verse, It sat upon each of them?

A. By it is manifestly meant the fire before mentioned, and sitting is a term applied to the will or 
love of man, agreeable to what was shown in the explanation of a former miracle: by its sitting 
therefore upon each of them, according to the spiritual idea, is to be understood, that the divine 
love, represented by the fire, conjoined itself with the love of those who are here signified by 
each of them, that is to say, with the teachers of heavenly doctrine in the new church about to be 
established.

Q. But it follows, that they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other 
tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance — what do you conceive to be the import of these 
words?

A. By the HOLY GHOST, or HOLY SPIRIT, is to be understood the divine operation, or the divine 
principle proceeding from the DIVINE HUMANITY of JESUS CHRIST, which He calls the Comforter 
and Spirit of truth, and of which He says, When he, the Spirit of truth, is come, He will guide you
into all truth; for He shall not speak of Himself, but whatever He shall hear, that shall He speak: 
He shall glorify me; for He shall receive of mine and shall show it to you, (John 16:13, 14). The 
HOLY GHOST therefore is manifestly the divine operation of JESUS CHRIST, for JESUS CHRIST says
expressly, He shall take of mine, and shall show it to you; and in another place, I will not leave 
you comfortless; I will come to you, (John 14:18); and on another occasion it is written, that 
JESUS breathed upon them, and said, Receive you the Holy Ghost, (John 20:22);and in another 
place, The Holy Ghost was not yet (given), because JESUS was not yet glorified, (John 7:30). By 
being filled then with the Holy Ghost is to be understood, that they became the subjects of divine 
operation in such a sort, that their wills were submitted to the divine will, their wisdom to the 
divine wisdom, and all their intentions, purposes, thoughts, words and works were now on to be 
under the guidance and government of JESUS CHRIST ruling, directing and blessing them by His 
own spirit of love and wisdom.

Q. And what do you understand by their speaking on this occasion with other tongues, as the 
Spirit gave them utterance?

A. According to the letter or literal meaning of these words, by speaking with other tongues is to 
be understood the speaking different languages, or, as some conceive of the miracle, being 
understood by men of different languages, which amounts to the same thing, and is equally 
miraculous, since whether we say that the apostles spake different languages, or, (as appears far 
more probable), that what they said in their own language was heard by strangers in their 
language, the miracle is the same, and equally declares the mercy and omnipotence of a divine 

- 150-

agent: but according to the spiritual meaning of these words, by speaking with other tongues is to
be understood the teaching a new doctrine, namely. the doctrine of faith in the INCARNATE GOD, 
of repentance from sin, and of renovation in the gospel spirit, which doctrine is the 
distinguishing doctrine of Christianity, and therefore is here figured under the symbol of other 
tongues. This new doctrine, or this new tongue, is spoken of in another place, where JESUS 
CHRIST, after His resurrection, says to His disciples, These signs shall follow them that believe; 
in my name shall they cast out devils; THEY SHALL SPEAK WITH NEW TONGUES, (Mark 16:17). It 
is also alluded to in the word of prophecy, where it is written, In that day shall five cities in the 
land of Egypt speak the language of Canaan, (Isaiah 19:18); and in another place, Then will I 
turn to the people a pure language, (Zeph. 3:9). This then is the sign which follows every true 
believer, namely. that he speaks with a new tongue; in other words, that he believes, professes, 
and practises a new doctrine, by acknowledging the sole and supreme divinity of JESUS CHRIST, 
together with the necessity of living according to all His holy precepts, by shunning all evils as 
sins against him, and by loving, thinking, and doing whatever is good, and wise, and beneficial, 
because it is from Him, and leads to an eternal conjunction of life and of blessedness with Him. 
Moreover, the true believer makes the above acknowledgment, and professes to make it, not by 
any power merely his own, but by a power imparted from above, or from the divine operation, 
and therefore he speaks with another or a new tongue, not in the pride and vanity of his own self-
derived intelligence, but in the humility and meekness of entire submission to divine influence, 
thus, as the Spirit gives him utterance.

Q. But it is written, that they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What 
means this? Others mocked, and said, These men are full of new wine. But Peter standing up 
with the eleven lifted up his voice, and said to them, You men of Judea, and all you that dwell in 
Jerusalem, be this known to you, and hearken to my words, for these are not drunken, as you 
suppose, seeing that it is but the third hour of the day; but this is that which was spoken by the 
prophet Joel, etc. — what instruction do you learn from these words?

A. I learn from these words, that there have been, and perhaps always will be in the world, three 
different classes of persons, who are differently affected by extraordinary dispensations of the 
divine providence, or by what may be called supernatural events, one class wondering and 
doubting, another mocking, or deriding, whilst a third, like the apostle Peter in this history, 
confirms the probability and even certainty of such interpositions by the unerring testimony of 
the WORD of GOD, which not only bears witness to the credibility of miraculous agency, but also 
in some instances, as in the present, prepares mankind for the reception of it by the most accurate
prediction. I am cautioned therefore by the above account, to take heed to my-self, how I decide 
on points of such magnitude and importance, and for this purpose to apply to the oracles of GOD 
for the direction of my judgment, that so, in cases of divine interference and operation, I may 
neither be found amongst those who doubt, or amongst those who mock, but rather amongst 
those, who, like Peter on the present occasion, justify the ways of GOD by a judicious appeal to 
the sure word of prophecy.

Q. What then do you conceive to be the great end and design of the descent of the HOLY GHOST, 
as announced by the extraordinary symbols above recorded?

- 151-

A. The miraculous descent of the HOLY GHOST was a re-publication of the original record, by 
which the nature and quality of the life of man, and of his internal connection with his MAKER, 
was defined, where it is written, The LORD GOD formed man of the dust of the ground, and 
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul, (Gen. 2:7). For by this 
record it is evident, that man was created to be a receiver of life from GOD, and thus not to 
possess an inherent life of his own independent of his CREATOR, but rather to possess a life, 
which he derived continually by influx from its DIVINE SOURCE, and for the continuation of 
which he was every moment indebted to the divine bounty.  This law then, which asserts man's 
perpetual dependance on his MAKER for every spark of life, (or rather of lives) which he enjoys, 
whether it be the life of love in his will, or the life of wisdom in his understanding, or the life of 
both in his affections, thoughts, words, works, and delights, was re-published, and confirmed by 
divine authority, on the occasion of the miracle above recorded. For by the descent of the HOLY 
GHOST, on the memorable day of Pentecost, the communication of life (or lives) from GOD, 
which had been closed and obstructed by sin and disorderly love, was intended to be re-opened, 
so that man might be again restored, not only to the privileges and blessings imparted to him at 
creation, but also to an increase of those privileges and blessings, in consequence of the 
redemption worked by the GREAT SAVIOUR. For on this occasion, man was to be gifted with new 
and additional energies, because the light of the moon was to become as the light of the sun, and 
the light of the sun was to be seven-fold as the light of seven days, in the day that the Lord binds 
up the breach of His people, and heals the stroke of their wound, (Isai. 30:26). Accordingly, 
JESUS CHRIST, the divine procurer and bestower of those energies, testifies on the occasion, I am 
come that they might have life, and that they might HAVE IT MORE ABUNDANTLY, (John x. 20). 
When this INCARNATE GOD, then, had finished the great work of redemption, by the subjugation 
of the powers of darkness, and the glorification of the HUMANITY which He had assumed, He 
now began, from His divine omnipotence, to verify His own declaration, by imparting to all 
believers that more abundant portion of life, which He came to communicate. Thus the ETERNAL 
FATHER glorified His name a second time, and by the same act provided for the purification, the 
reformation and regeneration of His penitent children.

Q. What is it I am to understand by the ETERNAL FATHER glorifying His name, and by glorifying 
it a second time?

A. By the FATHER'S name is to be understood, in an eminent sense, the HUMANITY which He 
assumed here on earth, and therefore JESUS CHRIST, in speaking of the glorification of His 
humanity, addresses Himself to the Father in these words, Father, glorify your name, (John 
12:28); and by this name being glorified a first time is to be understood that the HUMANITY was 
made divine, by being fully united with the divinity from whom it came forth; and by its being 
glorified a second time, is further to be understood its divine operation, by virtue of which it was 
to rule the church here on earth, as it ruled heaven, instructing, purifying, reforming, and 
regenerating the hearts and lives of all true believers, thus filling all things, as the apostle 
expresses it, by becoming the essential life and soul of all that is good and lovely, of all that is 
wise and intelligent, of all that is holy, pure, and blessed, in the church in general, and in every 
member of the church in particular. This second glorification of the humanity of the BLESSED 
JESUS had been before announced by a voice from heaven in those remarkable words, I have 

- 152-

both glorified it, and WILL GLORIFY IT AGAIN, (John xii. 28). By this second glorification 
therefore of the GREAT REDEEMER is to be understood, not only that His HUMANITY was made 
DIVINE, and thus became the GOD of heaven and earth, but also that all influx of heavenly life, or,
what amounts to the same, of heavenly love, wisdom and blessedness, was to proceed from that 
DIVINE HUMANITY, and was to be received and acknowledged in the church accordingly. In 
speaking therefore of the descent of the HOLY GHOST, JESUS CHRIST says expressly, in agreement 
with the above idea, He shall glorify Me, for He shall receive of mine and shall show it unto you,
(John 16:14). Thus the BLESSED JESUS cannot be seen in the fulness of His glory, until He be seen
by the eye of faith, as He was seen of old by the beloved apostle, in, the midst of the seven 
candle sticks, (Rev. 1:12, 13, 20); in other words, until he be seen in the inmost centre of what 
the seven candlesticks represent, namely. the seven churches, or the hearts and lives of all true 
believers, purifying them from sin, and raising them to a blessed conjunction with Himself by 
renovation and regeneration,

Q. And what am I to understand by what you further said, that by the same act He provided for 
the purification, the reformation and regeneration of His penitent children?

A. This follows as a necessary consequence of the glorification above spoken of, for until JESUS 
CHRIST be acknowledged in His divine operation as the alone source of all heavenly life, that is 
to say, of all heavenly love, heavenly wisdom, and heavenly joy in His church, and until man 
thus makes confession from the heart that his life is not properly his own, but derived perpetually
from another, thus that neither good nor evil are properly his own, only so far as he makes them 
so, by ascribing them to himself, it is impossible that he can either be purified, reformed, or 
regenerated, since all purification, reformation and regeneration imply the acknowledgement of 
divine agency, and particularly of the operation which JESUS CHRIST exercises in human minds 
by His HOLY SPIRIT. But no sooner is this acknowledgment made in the humility and sincerity of 
a penitent bosom, than all the blessings and graces of purification of reformation, and of 
regeneration presently follow, because then man begins to acknowledge a DIVINE POWER 
continually present and operative in the centre of his own life, and his religion, in such case, 
consists in bringing every affection, thought, word, and work, into subjection to that power, that 
so he may be an instrument in its hands of effecting divine purposes, claiming nothing to himself
but a feeling sense of his own infirmities and defilements, and ascribing the kingdom, the power 
and the glory to Him to whom it properly belongs. The great evil therefore of all evils, to which 
the human mind is exposed, is the inclination to yield to the delusive suggestion of the tempter of
old, You shall be as gods, (Gen. 3:5); in other words, you shall have an independent life of your 
own, subject to no control from another, and acknowledging no source but itself. For in whatever
mind this suggestion prevails, sin, and death, and misery must inevitably attend it. On the other 
hand, the good of all goods, or that which conducts to the acquisition and enjoyment of every 
good, is the inclination to admit and to act upon the sacred and edifying truth contained in those 
words of the GREAT REDEEMER, I am the vine, you are the branches, (John 15:5); by the humble 
grateful acknowledgment, that the life of man is at all times a derived life, and that thus the 
connection between him and his MAKER is like that which subsists between a tree and its 
branches. In other words, it is a connection worked by the perpetual communication of a vital 
principle, so that as a tree constantly supplies its branches with renewed life and vigour, without 

- 153-

which the branches could not subsist, in like manner the FATHER OF MERCIES constantly supplies 
His children with HIS VITAL SPIRIT, and if His children are deprived of this supply, they then are 
cast forth as branches, and withered, and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they 
are burned, (John 15:6).

Q. What then is the general instruction which you derive from the above miracle?

A. From the remarkable signs and symbols manifested on this occasion, such as the sound as of 
a rushing mighty wind, and the cloven tongues like as of fire which sat upon each of them, I am 
instructed in the language of representatives, which is a heavenly language, expressing spiritual 
realities under the most significant natural images, and inculcating thus the important lesson, that
between spiritual things and natural there is an exact agreement established at creation, by virtue 
of which agreement the latter are expressive of the former, and are applied accordingly 
throughout the sacred Scriptures. I learn further, from the descent of the HOLY GHOST announced 
by this miracle, to adore with unfeigned thankfulness the mercy and goodness of my HEAVENLY 
FATHER, who, when He had glorified the HUMANITY which He assumed here upon earth made 
that HUMANITY the medium of communication with His children here below. In that DIVINE 
HUMANITY therefore I behold, and rejoice in beholding, the blessed source of all spiritual life, 
love, holiness, and benediction which GOD can communicate, and man can receive. I will no 
longer therefore doubt respecting the divine operation, still less will I be of the number of those 
who mock on the interesting occasion, but I will rather regard the miraculous descent of the 
DIVINE SPIRIT as the completion of the counsels of the ETERNAL, the accomplishment of the sure 
word of prophecy, and a security to the true believer, that he is never for a moment forsaken by 
his HEAVENLY FATHER, but is ever attended by His divine presence, power and operation in the 
inmost centre of his own bosom. Above all, I am resolved to take heed to myself, that this holy 
guest may be ever pleased with His internal residence in my heart and life, for which blessed 
purpose I will pray and labour earnestly, through His divine aid, that all inordinate and defiled 
love may be ever removed from me, and that in its place may be implanted the pure love of GOD 
and of my neighbour. Thus may I humbly hope, that the BLESSED JESUS will perform in me the 
same circle of benediction which He performed for His church when here upon earth; and that 
therefore after instructing, purifying, reforming, and raising me up to Himself in His resurrection
and ascension-glory, He may finally descend, and by His divine operation fill and sanctify all my
purposes, affections, thoughts, words and works, that so I, like the apostles of old, may be filled 
with the HOLY GHOST. AMEN.

- 154-

Conclusion

Q. JESUS CHRIST says to His disciples before His death, "Verily, verily I say to you, He that 
believes on me, the works that I do shall he do also, and greater works than these shall he do, 
because I go to my Father, (John 14:12); and again, He says after His resurrection, These signs 
shall follow them that believe; in my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new 
tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; 
they shall lay hands on the sick and they shall recover, (Mark 16:17, 18). — how do you 
understand these words, and what is the lesson which they inculcate?

A. I understand these words as inculcating on every true believer the absolute necessity of co-
operating with JESUS CHRIST in the great general work of his salvation, which general work 
includes in it several particular works, called by JESUS CHRIST greater works than what He 
Himself did, and distinguished by the several striking characters of casting out devils, speaking 
with new tongues, taking up serpents, escaping hurt from drinking any deadly thing, and laying 
hands on the sick, so as to restore them to health.

Q. Do you conceive then that man is called to cast out devils, to speak with new tongues, to take 
up serpents, etc?

A. Yes; for JESUS CHRIST says expressly of every true believer, The works that I do shall he do 
also, and that these signs shall follow them that believe.

Q. And in what sense do you conceive those works are to be done by the true believer?

A. The true believer casts out devils, when he opposes and subdues evil in himself, for all evils 
are in close connection with devils; again, he speaks with a new tongue, when he acknowledges 
Christian doctrine, especially the doctrine which teaches that JESUS CHRIST is GOD, and that evil 
ought not to be done, because it is opposed to Him and to His life. Again, he takes up serpents, 
when he elevates his sensual principle, by compelling it to regard an eternal ends. Again, he 
drinks deadly things and they do not hurt him, when he admits false persuasions into his 
understanding, but does not suffer them to influence his will and life. Lastly, he lays hands on 
the sick and they recover, when he applies the truth, which he believes, to the removal of all his 
natural infirmities, disorders and corruptions.

Q. And what do you mean by co-operating with JESUS CHRIST in these works?

A. Man co-operates with JESUS CHRIST, when he believes the words of JESUS CHRIST, Without 
me you can do nothing, (John xv. 5); and when he nevertheless exerts himself in the discharge of 
all his duties freely, as if all depended on his own exertions, yet under the acknowledgement that 
all his power and exertion is from that great GOD AND SAVIOUR. For the conduct of man in regard
to saving works is of a three-fold character, since he may, first, either trust to the ALMIGHTY to do
every thing for him without doing any thing for himself, or, secondly, he may depend upon his 

- 155-

own exertions without trusting to the ALMIGHTY, or, thirdly, he may combine his own exertions 
with divine power, and thus co-operate with that power.

Q. And which of these rules of conduct do you think the safest, and most agreeable to the order 
of heaven?

A. I should think the last, because in pursuing the first of those rules, man makes himself a mere 
machine, and in pursuing the second, he becomes his own god, by resting his salvation on his 
own powers independent of the power of GOD, the fatal consequence of which is, that his own 
activities only tend to separate him more and more from the blessed life of GOD. Accordingly 
JESUS CHRIST, with a view to secure man against the danger of both these rules of conduct, 
delivered to mankind this important injunction, Abide in me, and I in you, (John 15:4), by which 
He meant to teach the necessity of a reciprocal conjunction of Himself with man, and of man 
with Himself, in the discharge of every duty, before that duty can be of any avail in promoting 
man's salvation. The law therefore of co-operation with JESUS CHRIST in the performance of 
religious duties is grounded in the grand design of all true religion, which is to effect man's 
conjunction with his MAKER, since without co-operation it is impossible that such conjunction 
can ever be accomplished.

Q. Do you conceive then that co-operation with JESUS CHRIST is necessary in discharging the 
duty of prayer?

A. Yes; I conceive it to be so necessary, that man cannot properly pray without it, since without 
it, all his prayers are but mere sounds of words, which may more properly be called, Saying a 
prayer, than praying. For all true prayer implies, not only the sound of words, but heavenly 
affection and heavenly thought, and how can man possess or exercise either heavenly affection 
or heavenly thought without assistance from above, or from that divine Being who has said, 
Without me you can do nothing? Unless man therefore in his prayers looks up to JESUS CHRIST as
the author and giver of heavenly affection and thought, his prayers must of necessity be mere 
sounds of the voice, and so far from procuring him any blessing, they will but separate him 
further from its divine source. Thus it is an eternal law of profitable prayer, that it shall not only 
be directed to JESUS CHRIST, but also be acknowledged to be from Him.

Q. And do you conceive that the same cooperation is necessary in keeping the commandments of 
the decalogue?

A. Yes; for the commandments of the decalogue are laws of spiritual, of civil, and of moral life, 
being designed of GOD to effect His conjunction with man, and man's conjunction with Him in 
the several degrees of man's life, which may be called spiritual, civil, and moral. If man then 
does not co-operate with JESUS CHRIST in keeping these divine and heavenly laws, he cannot 
then keep them completely, but only in part, for if he does not co-operate with JESUS CHRIST in 
keeping them, he must then keep them, if he keeps them at all, from mere worldly and temporal 
motives, such as the fear of human laws, the loss of reputation, etc. thus he will keep them as 
moral and civil laws, but not as spiritual laws, and the terrible consequence will be that not 

- 156-

regarding an eternal end in them, that is to say, not abstaining from evil because it is sin against 
GOD, consequently not regarding GOD and His eternal kingdom, these heaven-born laws will 
effect no conjunction between GOD and himself, and no radical purification from his natural 
evils, as they were designed to do, but will leave him as far from GOD and his life, and as deeply 
immersed in sin as if he never kept them at all. This was the case, we find, with the young man in
the gospel, who had thus kept the moral and civil part of the divine law, but not the spiritual part 
at the same time, by respecting GOD in the other parts, of whom therefore it is written, that JESUS 
beholding him, loved him, and said to him, One thing you lack, (Mark 10:17-23). This one thing 
lacking was co-operation with JESUS CHRIST in the rejection of evils, and if this one thing be 
lacking amongst Christians at this day, the necessary consequence must be, that the 
commandments will be deprived of their purifying and saving efficacy, so that although man, as 
to the letter of the law, abstains from murder, from adultery, from theft, and from false witness, 
yet, not abstaining from these evils in the spirit. or because they are sins against GOD, he will still
be a spiritual murderer, adulterer, thief, and false witness.

Q. What then do you suppose JESUS CHRIST means by the greater works, which the true believer 
is to perform?

A. The greatest of all works, and of all miracles, properly considered, is done by the true 
believer, when he prostrates himself before his HEAVENLY FATHER, in devout prayer, and keeps 
the commandments of the decalogue according to the internal spirit both of the LORD'S prayer 
and His precepts, and in co-operation with Him; for in this work both GOD and man are employed
conjointly, since it cannot be effected by either singly. In this work too are combined all the 
miracles which JESUS CHRIST ever wrought, when understood according to their real, proper, and
spiritual meaning; for by this work, the blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers 
are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached 
to them, (Matthew 11:5). Thus by a right use of the LORD'S prayer, and a right observance of the 
divine precepts of the Decalogue, all the infirmities, disorders, defilements, and miseries of man 
are worked upon and removed, and since these effects are produced by JESUS CHRIST in His 
GLORIFIED HUMANITY, and by man conjointly, therefore they are called greater works than those 
performed by JEsus CHRIST here on earth before his glorification, and without the co-operation 
of man. Accordingly the reason assigned by JESUS CHRIST for these greater works is expressed in
these remarkable words, Because I go to the Father, which is the same thing as if He had said, 
Because my humanity will be made DIVINE, and I shall thus be enabled to operate on my children
with seven-fold energy, whilst they, in their turn, will be enabled to co-operate with Me to seven-
fold advantage, by the reception of a seven-fold increase of faith, and love, and joy.

Q. What then is the general instruction which you learn from all the LORD'S miracles?

A. I learn, in the first place, that the BLESSED JESUS, from His humanity now made DIVINE, and 
by the instrumentality of His HOLY WORD, is ever willing and purposing to accomplish in the 
souls of men the same divine works, or miraculous operations, which He accomplished in their 
bodies, when here on earth. Thus it is still His divine will and purpose, by means of His HOLY 
WORD, to instruct mankind in the knowledge of the eternal truth, which is to deliver them from 

- 157-

blindness, by opening their eyes to the blessing of sight. In like manner, it is His will and 
purpose, by the same means, to render them obedient to the truth, which is to open their ears; 
also to enable them to profess the truth, which is to unloose their tongues; likewise to dispose 
them to live according to the truth, which is to make the lame walk; and again, to purify them 
from their disorderly loves, which is to cure the leper and the sick of the palsy, etc.; lastly, to 
deliver them from the power of sin, and restore them to the new life of His most holy love and 
wisdom, which is to raise them from the dead, and elevate them in ascension-glory to 
conjunction of life with Himself. In the second place, I learn what are the works which I myself 
ought to accomplish, because JESUS CHRIST has said of every true believer, The works that I do 
shall he do also, (John 14:12). It is therefore my duty, as it is my happiness to endeavour to cure 
my natural blindness, my natural deafness, and my natural dumbness, by reading, meditating on, 
and practising the WORD OF GOD. Again, it is my duty, as it is my happiness, to submit all my 
natural evils, infirmities and disorders to the healing virtue of the eternal truth, that so the 
leprosy, palsy, and all other diseases which I have contracted through sin, may be cleansed and 
cured, and all my faculties both of body and mind restored to their proper health and order. 
Lastly, it is my duty, as it is my happiness, to die daily to my natural evils of an inordinate self-
love and the love of the world, that so I may be raised up in resurrection and ascension-glory to 
the pure love of GOD, and of my neighbour. In the third place I learn, that to effect these blessed 
purposes, I must co-operate with JESUS CHRIST, because this INCARNATE GOD has said of those 
who believe, In my name shall they cast out devils, etc. thus instructing all Christians, that 
without Him [or His NAME] they can do nothing, and that therefore they ought to look up to Him 
with humble dependance on His divine aid, in the performance of every duty, yet at the same 
time to perform it freely as of themselves. Thus, whether they read the WORD OF GOD, or are 
instant with GOD in prayer, or are employed in worldly callings, or are engaged in combat with 
their passions and corruptions, or through that combat are elevated to the joy and glory of 
spiritual victory, they ought in all things to depend on GOD more than on themselves, yet not so 
to depend on GOD, as to neglect their own exertions under that dependance, I am resolved 
therefore from henceforth to take JESUS CHRIST and His works for my model, and for the model 
of my own works, and recollecting that I am called to do the same, and even greater works, I will
so endeavour to imitate His blessed example, that He may again live in me the life which He 
once lived here below, and that I may live ever in Him, and that thus joining my will with His 
will, my wisdom with His wisdom, and my operation with His operation, as He is disposed to 
join His with mine, I may recover gradually from all my natural blindness, deafness, dumbness, 
lameness, palsy, leprosy, and every other infirmity and uncleanness, until I am restored to that 
pure and happy state of spiritual health and vigour, in which I shall be enabled to sing the blessed
song, The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will
trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my strong tower, (Ps. 18:2). AMEN.

- 158-

Prayer

O ALMIGHTY and MERCIFUL FATHER, who have been pleased to manifest Thyself to Your sinful
creatures, as a MAN, by assuming a HUMILITY here below, and afterwards glorifying it, or making
it one with Thyself, for the purpose of giving Your creatures continual access to You, we desire to
praise and glorify Your holy name for this Your gracious condescension, and most adorable 
manifestation of Thyself. We implore at the same time the aid of Your HOLY SPIRIT, to open our 
eyes to a right and edifying view of the wondrous works, which You were pleased to perform, 
during Your sojournings here below, for the benefit and instruction of Your church. Enable us 
thus to see that all the miracles worked by You on the bodies of men, for the removal of bodily 
disease and infirmity, were striking representative figures of the infinitely more important 
miracles which You are ever disposed to work in our souls or spirits. And may this consideration 
lead us ever to apply to You in Your GLORIFIED HUMANITY, for Thy divine and healing virtue, 
under every pressure of our manifold spiritual infirmities and disorders. Be You our restorer from
blindness to sight; from our natural deafness to the faculty of hearing; from our natural dumbness
to the faculty of speaking; from the leprosy of polluted and perverted affections, to purity and 
rectitude; from the palsy of obstructed spiritual life, to its free circulation; from the death and 
grave of our natural evils and errors, to resurrection-life and ascension-glory, through the 
communication of Your most adorable love and wisdom! May we thus be taught humbly and 
gratefully to acknowledge Thee, not only as our best friend, but as our most skilful physician, 
and not only as the primary cause and source of original life, but as the DIVINE REPAIRER of all 
its breaches, as our REDEEMER from sin, and as the DIVINE PARENT of new and heavenly life in 
us!

Enable us thus to see and to perceive, that of Yours infinite love and mercy You are ever disposed
to perform the same works at this day in every individual mind, which You were pleased to 
perform in Your church, in the days of Your divine ministration here below, by instructing, 
healing, feeding, strengthening, purifying it, and finally, by raising it from the death of sin to an 
eternal conjunction with You in the love and the life of righteousness. And may this 
consideration lead us ever to attend to Your divine presence and operation, and not only so, but 
also to co-operate with You in all Your mighty works, FROM A FULL CONVICTION THAT SUCH CO-
OPERATION CAN ALONE QUALIFY US EITHER TO DISCERN YOUR WORKS, OR TO BE MADE SENSIBLE OF 
THE INESTIMABLE BLESSINGS INVOLVED IN THEM. THUS MAY WE HUMBLY HOPE TO BECOME OF THE 
HAPPY NUMBER OF THOSE OF WHOM YOU HAVE BEEN PLEASED TO DECLARE, HE THAT BELIEVES IN 
ME, THE WORKS THAT I DO SHALL HE DO ALSO, AND GREATER WORKS THAN THESE SHALL HE DO, 
BECAUSE I GO TO THE FATHER: AND THUS TOO BEING SUCCESSIVELY TAUGHT, AND LED, AND 
HEALED, AND NOURISHED, AND RAISED FROM THE DEAD BY YOUR MERCY AND OMNIPOTENCE, WE 
WILL GIVE YOU THANKS FOR EVER, AND WILL SHOW FORTH YOUR PRAISE FROM GENERATION TO 
GENERATION. AMEN.

Our Father, which art in heaven, etc.

- 159-

- 160-

Translations from Original Text

Original

This version

abideth
acceptation
acknowledgm
ent
admissive
adverted
appertaining
aright
art
ascendency
beareth
believeth
betwixt
bindeth
blasphemeth
brake
bringeth
canst
cometh
commixed
connexion
covereth
crieth
deceiveth
didst
doeth
Dost
doth
Doth
draught
drinketh
dwelleth
endureth
Ezech
falleth
farther
findeth
forgiveth
frameth
from hence
fulfil
fulfilment
fulness
gathereth
gavest
goeth
hast
hateth
hath
healeth
henceforth
hither
howsoever
intercourse

abides
acceptance
acknowledgem
ent
accepting
referred
belonging
right
are
ascendancy
bears
believes
between
binds
blasphemes
break
brings
can
comes
mixed
connection
covers
cries
deceives
did
does
Do
does
Does
drain
drinks
dwells
endures
Ezek
falls
further
finds
forgives
frames
from here
fulfill
fulfillment
fullness
gathers
gave
goes
have
hates
has
heals
now on
here
however
exchange

Instanc
es
1
1

18

3
6
2
1
11
1
1
8
2
1
1
3
5
2
11
1
33
1
2
1
3
5
2
19
4
6
1
1
2
1
1
4
1
1
1
1
1
1
9
1
1
5
16
1
34
3
21
7
6
1

- 161-

judgment
lackest
lieth
like unto
liveth
maketh
marvellous
meaneth
nigh
pleaseth
proceedeth
raiment
remaineth
remembereth
saith
seeketh
shalt
shew
shineth
shouldest
sitteth
sleepeth
spake
steppeth
stinketh
stripes
sup
taketh
thee
Thee
they which
thine
Thine
thinkest
thou
Thou
thyself
thy
Thy
to-day
unto
viz
walketh
wast
whatsoever
whensoever
wheresoever
whosoever
Whoso
wilt
Wilt
worshipped
worshipper
worshipping
wouldest
wrought
ye
Ye
not meet

judgement
lack
lies
like
lives
makes
marvelous
means
near
pleases
proceeds
clothing
remains
remembers
says
seeks
shall
show
shines
should
sits
sleeps
spoke
steps
stinks
blows
dine
takes
you
You
they who
your
Yours
think
you
You
yourself
your
Your
today
to
namely
walks
were
whatever
whenever
wherever
whoever
Whoever
will
Will
worshiped
worshiper
worshiping
would
worked
you
You
not worthy

4
1
1
5
1
1
1
1
3
1
1
6
1
1
27
1
5
1
1
4
1
2
8
1
1
2
6
3
49
10
1
8
1
1
57
30
3
54
22
1
143
48
1
2
10
22
2
3
1
8
2
8
1
1
2
26
42
4
2

- 162-

(If you disagree with these translations, please email IJT@biblemeanings.info) 

- 163-

