
=== Adult

Point out first that the Lord met temptations constantly throughout His earthly life, and read to the class the quotation at the end of the lesson. Take up the meaning of the three temptations and discuss temptation in general, its source, why it is permitted to come to us, and how we should meet it.

---
What do we mean by temptation? Perhaps the simplest answer is "the desire to do something we know is wrong." Where does this desire come from? We feel it as coming from ourselves; yet the desire to resist the temptation seems to be in us too. We speak of our higher and our lower self and wonder sometimes which is our real self. The fact is that in each one of us are countless things both good and bad of which most of the time we are unconscious. The impulses which stir them up and bring them to our consciousness are not from ourselves at all but from the heavens and the hells, and the Lord's providence keeps us perfectly balanced between the two so that we are free to choose which impulse we shall follow. The Lord protects us so that we shall never be tempted beyond our power to resist if we look to Him for help (see 1 Corinthians 10:13). We sometimes say, "The temptation was too strong for me; I could not help doing what I did," but this is not being really honest. As we look back over our lives, we know that there is nothing we have ever done which we could not have done differently. We are free to choose between good and bad companions, companions who help us to do right and those who lead us into doing wrong. And it is useful for us to realize that we have other companions than those whom we see in the world around us. We have to choose between good and bad spiritual companions. We feel their influence; sometimes we almost hear their voices. We are not responsible for the bad thoughts and feelings which come up in all of us unexpectedly, but we are responsible if we let them stay. Anger, hatred, jealousy, spite, covetousness, pride are stirred up in us by evil spirits who delight to lead us into harm, just as bad companions in the world do; indeed they are evil spirits just because when they were in the world, they chose to take delight in evil. But these bad impulses and thoughts are not ours unless we yield to them. We can say, "No," to the suggestion of an evil spirit just as we can to the suggestion of a bad earthly companion.

Why does the Lord permit us to be tempted? Because if we did not freely choose what is good, we could not make good our own to keep forever, and if we saw nothing but good, we should have no choice. Choice necessarily implies an alternative. If we did not see the evils in ourselves, we could not reject them. So, as we progress, the Lord permits evil spirits to stir up deeper and deeper evils in our hereditary nature so that we may, if we will, choose higher and higher goods. This is the way in which our character is developed and strengthened, just as our muscles are developed by performing ever harder and harder tasks. We should not court temptation, for we do not know our own weakness; only the Lord can judge how far we are prepared to meet evil. Our own desire should be always to live among good spiritual companions. So we are rightly taught to pray, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil." But when, in the Lord's providence, temptation comes, we should meet it boldly and use all the means the Lord has provided to help us resist it. This is what our lesson today teaches.

The account of the Lord's temptations in the wilderness is symbolic of all the temptations which He underwent daily from the beginning of His life on earth to the end. Although His forty days' fast in the wilderness is historically true, all the details of the story are correspondential and some of them are obviously parable rather than actual fact. We have learned from the story of John that the wilderness of Judea pictures the state of the church at that time. The Lord's baptism, picturing the determination to cleanse the assumed human, immediately brought His divine nature into conflict with the church as summed up in His heredity from Mary. So the temptations in the wilderness follow directly upon the baptism. We know that with us, too, a good resolution always seems to be followed by an immediate temptation to break it. The number forty is a symbol of temptation. In our story the tempter is called "the devil" and is addressed as "satan." These are not individuals. All the power of evil in the hells is summed up under the term "devil," and all the power of falsity under the name "satan." In His humanity the Lord met the attacks of all the powers of the hells.

The three temptations picture temptation on the three planes of life. Stones represent truths on the natural plane, and to make them into bread to satisfy hunger is to find our satisfactions in natural external good works and taking credit to ourselves for them, without looking to the Lord for guidance and power. The Lord's answer to the tempter points to the fact that we are primarily spiritual beings and are not living truly human lives if we take no interest in spiritual things. The second temptation is on the intellectual plane, the temptation to think that "faith alone" is sufficient for salvation, that if we know about the Lord and say we believe in Him, He will somehow save us no matter what we do. The pinnacle of the temple pictures satisfaction in knowledge about the Lord, the temple being the symbol of the doctrine of the church. And to cast oneself down from this pinnacle is to go from a high to a low state of life by not trying to live according to the truth one knows. When we feel that we are better than other people because we belong to the church and go to church on Sunday — and that because we do, the Lord will admit us to heaven no matter how selfish we really are — we are feeling this temptation. And the Lord tells us, "Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God." If we look up this quotation in Deuteronomy 6:16, we find that instead of tempting God we are diligently to "keep the commandments of the Lord," and to "do that which is right and good in the sight of the Lord" if we wish to attain the promised land. In this life we never reach a point where we are "good enough." If we think we are, we are standing on the pinnacle of the temple and are in imminent danger of falling off. And we must not rely on the Lord's mercy to save us, when He has told us plainly never to cease the battle against evils in our hearts. The third temptation of the Lord is the inmost, the temptation to let selfishness take possession of our hearts. To put self first in everything is to "fall down and worship" the devil and Satan; for in our natural self-hood are all the evils and falsities which the evil spirits love to excite, and when we set up self as the most important thing in life, we open the door to evil and come under the rule of the hells. When this temptation comes to us — as it does every day of our lives — we must remember that no matter what the appearance may be, our only salvation is to deny self, to look to the Lord for guidance and strength, and to obey Him: "Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve."

In each temptation the Lord's answer was a quotation from Scripture. This shows us the right way to meet temptation. Quoting Scripture does two things for us; it reminds us that however trivial the particular temptation may seem, it is really important, for it is a choice between the Lord and the devil; and it opens a way in our minds for the Lord to come in and help us. Recall that the Word is really like Jacob's ladder, with angels ascending and descending upon it — that is, our thoughts going up to the Lord at the top and the Lord's thoughts coming down to us at the foot, where the ladder connects with the ground, or the letter of the Word in our minds. When we quote Scripture in answer to temptation, we are setting up this "ladder," meeting temptation in the Lord's strength in this way, we feel the peace and satisfaction which come only from the Lord and the angels: "Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him."

