
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AC 1690: "That the Lord's life, from His earliest childhood even to the last hour of His life in the world, was continual temptation and continual victory, is evident from many things in the Word of the Old Testament; and that it did not cease with the temptation in the wilderness is evident from what is said in Luke: 'And when the devil had completed every temptation, he departed from Him for a season' (4:13); as also from the fact that He was tempted even to the death on the cross, and thus to the last hour of His life in the world ... The last was when He prayed on the cross for His enemies, and thus for all in the whole world. In the Word of the Lord's life, in the Gospels, none but the last is mentioned, except His temptation in the wilderness. More was not disclosed to the disciples. The things that were disclosed appear in the sense of the letter so slight as to be scarcely anything ... when yet His temptation was more grievous than can ever be comprehended and believed by any human mind ... The temptation that is related in Matthew ... contains all temptations in a summary; namely, that from love toward the whole human race, the Lord fought against the loves of self and the world, with which the hells were filled. All temptation is an assault upon the love in which the man is, and the temptation is in the same degree as is the love. If the love is not assaulted, there is no temptation. To destroy anyone's love is to destroy his very life; for the love is the life. The Lord's life was love toward the whole human race, and was indeed so great, and of such a quality, as to be nothing but pure love ... The love which was the Lord's veriest life is signified by His 'hungering' ... That He fought against the love of the world, or all things that are of the love of the world, is signified by: 'The devil took him into a high mountain (etc.)' ... That He fought against the love of self, and all things that are of the love of self, is signified by this: 'The devil took him into the holy city (etc.)' ... Continual victory is signified by its being said that after the temptations, 'angels came and ministered unto him.' "

