
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Take up first the meaning of the three temptations. Then follow the same pattern as for the Juniors and continue by calling attention to verse 6, and note the fact that the Scripture is given us to use in correcting our faults, not in excusing them. When we misuse it, it is like the devil quoting it.

---
Baptism, we have said, is the sign of the desire to make one's life clean according to the Lord's truth. When we try to put this determination into practice, we are likely to go through a period of difficulty when virtue seems a dry business and selfish indulgence looks more pleasant than ever before. This is why in the story of the Lord's life His baptism is followed by the account of His fasting in the wilderness and His temptations.

The story of the Lord's temptations by the devil is a parable.

There is no one great devil, although all in the hells who are ruled by the love of evil are called devils. "The devil" is the personification of all the power of evil, and "Satan" is the personification of all the power of falsity. Likewise, the three temptations recorded in the story are symbolic of all the temptations through which the Lord was constantly passing throughout His life on earth.

The first — to turn stones into bread — is the temptation to make truth on the natural plane satisfy our minds, the idea that we can be good by doing external good works without caring about knowledge of God and spiritual things.

The second — to cast Himself down from the pinnacle of the temple, trusting in God's promise to take care of Him — is the temptation to do things which we know are wrong and dangerous to our souls and expect the Lord to save us in spite of our folly, to imagine, for example, that if we go to church and say we believe in the Lord, we can do about as we please the rest of the week.

The third — to fall down and worship the devil — is the temptation to give up the effort to learn and do the Lord's will and to seek only self-interest and self-satisfaction.

These three temptations sum up and cover all our temptations on the three planes of conduct, thought, and will. The Lord doubtless did spend forty days in the wilderness after His baptism wrestling with the inherent tendencies to evil in His finite human nature in preparation for His public ministry, but this was not His only period of temptation. He did not go through all His temptations in one great battle, as we might imagine from the literal story. He had been meeting them, as we do, day by day from infancy onward, and He would continue to meet them in ever deeper forms until the final great temptation on the cross. They are merely summed up for us in this chapter. The wilderness, we remember, pictures a barren state, and the number forty is one of the symbols of temptation.

Now notice how the Lord met the tempter. Recall that His stay in Egypt when He was an infant pictured the fact that in His childhood He had to learn just as we do, and what He especially chose to learn was the letter of the Old Testament Scriptures. So now in each temptation He was able to answer, "It is written" and quote the passage of Scripture which most clearly forbade the evil suggested. This is our example. The Lord is in His Word. When we learn passages of Scripture and repeat them in times of temptation, the Lord's power can flow through them into our hearts and give us strength to do right. If we wish to fight a particular fault, there is no better way than to find a verse in the Word which condemns this fault or commands its opposite good, learn the verse, and repeat it whenever we are tempted. And if a temptation comes for which we have no special verse, the Lord's words in verse 10, "Get thee hence, Satan," will always help us. For when we are tempted, we may know that "the devil and satan" are at our elbow stirring up our natural selfishness. And if we resist bravely and overcome the temptation, we are rejecting the devil and choosing instead the company of the angels who are always at hand desiring to help us.

Read verse 11. From the teachings of the New Church, we know that we are living in two worlds all the time. Our physical bodies and our natural senses focus our consciousness on the material world about us, but our desires and thoughts are not material. Our souls are in the spiritual world now — Swedenborg tells us that we are even sometimes seen by the angels as shadows in their midst and we are choosing from moment to moment to live in heaven or in hell.

