
=== Primary

Even very young children can understand the nature and source of temptation. Read them the story from the Word and tell them that the Lord was showing us how to be good. Then talk about some of their own little temptations and how to overcome them. Introduce the idea that when bad thoughts and impulses come into their minds, they are from evil spirits, and that they can refuse to entertain them just as the Lord did. Moreover, the Lord and the angels will help them if they try to be good.

After the Lord was baptized, He went out alone and lived in the wilderness of Judea for forty days, strengthening Himself against temptation. Temptation is wanting to do something you know is wrong. What are some of your own temptations? Perhaps there is something your mother has told you never to touch. When you are alone in the room with it, a little voice inside your mind suddenly says, "Why not touch it now? No one will know." This little voice is not really your own voice; it is a bad spirit from hell, a devil, trying to persuade you to do wrong. But at the same time your guardian angel is whispering to you, too, saying, "Don't do it; you know it is wrong." And you are the one who has to decide whether to do what the devil tells you to do or what the angel says. And you know from experience that if you choose to obey the devil, you will be very likely to get into trouble.

When the Lord Jesus was living on earth, He often heard devils whispering to Him, just as you do, but He always was strong enough to say no to them. And in our lesson He shows us the very best way to answer a devil when he is tempting us to do wrong.

How did the devil tempt Him first?

What did the Lord answer?

Then where did the devil take Him?

What did he tell Him to do?

How did he try to persuade Him?

How did the Lord answer?

Where did they go next?

What was the third temptation?

You notice that every time the devil tempted Him, the Lord answered, "It is written," and then quoted something from the Bible. When we quote the Bible, we are calling on the Lord for help, and He is always there to help us.

Do you think the devil ever tempts us?

What does our lesson teach us is the best way to answer temptation?

When the devil finally left the Lord, who came to Him?

When we do right, the angels are always close to us.

Can you learn four words from our lesson? They are, "Get thee hence, Satan." Now the next time you are tempted to do something you have been told not to do, just think to yourself, "This is a devil whispering to me and I don't want to have anything to do with him," and then say, "Get thee hence, Satan," and turn your back on the thing you are tempted to do and start right in doing something you know is all right for you to do. Then the angels can make you happy, just as they came and ministered to the Lord after His temptation was over.

