
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The whole lesson is particularly interesting at the Senior level, as they are beginning to recognize some of the deeper temptations. Stress the need of daily study and use of the Word.

---
The account of the Lord's baptism is immediately followed by the story of His temptations in the wilderness. Thinking of baptism as the dedication of oneself to a life according to divine truth, one sees that it is inevitable that temptations will immediately be felt.

The Lord was tempted throughout His life on earth. Indeed He took on a finite humanity for the very purpose of meeting the temptations inherent in it. We are not often reminded in the Gospels of His struggles with His assumed nature, but they are summed up in the story of these three temptations in the wilderness. In the Arcana we have, in the celestial sense of Genesis and Exodus and the related passages, a study of the Lord's continuous struggle, and we realize that the hardest part of it for Him came from His desire to save everyone. In reference to the Lord's life — that is, in its inmost sense — the wilderness pictures the state of the church as the Lord saw it in His day, and His temptations were temptations to find some means of saving the people even against their will. But in our own lives the wilderness pictures rather the state of uncertainty and discouragement which frequently comes over anyone who turns from a life of self-seeking to attempt the spiritual life. Forty, we remember, symbolizes temptation. No doubt it is a fact that Jesus went into the wilderness after His baptism and fasted there for forty days and forty nights and wrestled with temptation, but the record of this in the Word is a parable for our instruction.

The assumed humanity of the Lord, being from the human race, was also a "wilderness," full of temptations. It even yearned at first for the satisfactions of the flesh and so understood the same yearning in the people. So we may think of the first of the three temptations as picturing in its lowest sense these physical yearnings, and in a little higher sense the willingness to be satisfied with external and natural ideas of goodness, the thought that if we do things to make our neighbor comfortable physically, no deep thought of the Lord and spiritual things is necessary for us. The second temptation is an intellectual one, the tendency to think it is enough if we know the truth from the Word and professedly accept it, without humbly obeying it. The pinnacle of the temple pictures intellectual arrogance, and the temptation is to use the Scriptures as an excuse for our evils — this is the devil quoting Scripture. The third and deepest temptation is the temptation to make others serve us, to impose our opinions and our will on those around us so far as we have power to do so. We can see that with the Lord, whose power was infinite and who knew that His will was right, this temptation was directed against His inmost love of saving the whole human race. The same temptation is expressed in His prayer at Gethsemane (Matthew 26:39) and in His words on the cross: "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do."

The Lord answered each temptation by quoting the Word. He was carrying out the promise of His baptism, judging His finite humanity and forcing it to obey the truth, and so bringing it into the order of the Word that the divine nature within might act through it. We should note the difference between the Lord's use of Scripture to resist evil and the devil's use of Scripture to justify it. And we should remember this story as a warning to us to be careful not to imitate the devil instead of the Lord. It is easier than we may think to misuse Scripture passages in this way. For example, the familiar passage, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" is often used to excuse neglect of the Word and of the church and to teach that after all external good works are the essential of goodness.

It was only after the successful conclusion of these temptations that the divine soul became so manifest in the finite body of the Lord that He could say simply, "Follow me," and good men would turn from their natural employments and devote themselves to His service. And only then could He begin to teach and preach and perform miracles.

