
=== Notes for Parents

All through their forty years of wandering in the wilderness the children of Israel were led by a miraculous pillar — of cloud by day and of fire by night. They knew it was the presence of the Lord with them, and they were to go wherever it led them, to camp where it stopped, and not to move on until it moved. The Lord is always with us, leading us from one experience to another. Everything which comes to us is something the Lord sees we need sometimes for our encouragement, sometimes for a warning, and sometimes for a test. The important thing in life is not what happens to us but what we do about it.

From Rephidim the pillar led the children of Israel to Sinai. This was a steep and high mountain with a great plain at its foot, on which the whole people could camp. They were kept there for eleven months, and in that time the Lord gave them through Moses all the laws for their life and for their worship, laws which changed them from a mere horde of people into an organized nation, and established the Israelitish Church.

The first thing given them was the ten commandments, which all the people heard spoken by the voice of the Lord from the top of the mountain, amid thunder and lightning. These laws had always been known, but the people had to be shown — and we have to see today — that they are not man-made laws but divine laws on which all happy life must be based. They can never be changed or broken without harm resulting.

To receive the other laws and instructions, Moses was several times called by the Lord to the top of the mountain. The last time he remained up there hidden in the cloud for forty days and forty nights, and the people decided he was not coming back. We all tend to have more faith in the things we can see and touch than in unseen things, although we know that even in nature it is unseen forces — like gravity and electricity — which have greatest power. The golden calf of our story for today is a picture of the successes and pleasures of this world when we set them up as the supreme object of life. Read the story with this in mind and you will find in it a wonderful lesson the Lord is teaching us.

