
=== LECTURE IV PROOFS AND ILLUSTRATIONS, EVINCING THAT THE SCRIPTURES ARE WRITTEN ACCORDING TO THE LAW OR RULE DEVELOPED IN THE LAST LECTURE

----
I. Of the Style proper to a Divine Composition.

Such a Style afforded by the Relation of Analogy between natural things and spiritual, as explained in the last Lecture.
II. That if the Scriptures are -written by a Plenary Divine Inspiration, they must be
1. That when the Divine Speeeh, or the Divine Word, which composed in this st j le.
is the same thing as the Divine Truth, emanates from the bosom of Deity into the circumference of creation, or into the world of nature, it there clothes itself with images taken from that world, and that it cannot otherwise be presented to mankind.
2. Variety of Phraseology in the different Inspired Penmen consistent with Verbal Inspiration.
3. Plenary Inspiration necessarily occasional, and not permanently attendant on certain
III. That the Holy Scriptures are the Divine Truth thus brought into a
Fersons.
natural form: and that therefore their interior meaning can only be understood by an application to them of the Law which governs the Relation between natural objects and spiritual and divine essences.
TV. Applicability of the Rule to the Prophecies ol the Divine Word.
1. Sentiments of Biblical Critics on the Double Sense of Prophecy.
2. Rule of Analogical Interpretation adopted by Sir Isaac Newton and Bishop Warburton.
V. Examples of the
3. Defects of their Rule, and the necessity of extending it further.
light which results from the application of the Rule of Analogy between natural things and spiritual to the Prophetic Writings. --  Instances selected;
1. Ezekiel's prophecy or a
2. The Lord's great sacrifice upon tre mountains of Israel (Ezek. xxxix. 17 to 20) ;
prophecy of his Second Coming in the clouds of heaven (Matt xxiv. 29. 30) ;
3. John's vision of spiritual Babylon (Rev. xvii. 3 to 6).
----

I. There cannot, certainly, be a more interesting and momentous excercise proposed to the reflecting mind, than to investigate the nature of that speech or language which God uses, or might be expected to use, in communicating a divinely inspired
Nothing can be more agreeable to reason that to pre-suppose, that the style of language in which God speaks to man, must be very different from that in which men generally speak to each other; and that its beauties and excellences, though necessarily of the most transcendant des-

code of knowledge on heavenly subjects.

cription, must, nevertheless, be quite different in their kind, from those which adorn the best human compositions.
of reason as well as of revelation which declares, that God's thoughts are not as our thoughts, nor his ways as our ways*; and also, that

That is a dictate

* Isa. lv. 8.


the things most highly esteemed among men, -- the wisdom of this world, -- may be mere foolishness in the sight of God.* Some have
Seen disgusted with the Scriptures of Divine Truth, and have thought it an argument against their divine origin, because they are not written in the style of the orations of Demosthenes, -- or of the philosophical disquisitions of Plato and Aristotle, -- or of the legal pandects of Justinian; -- because they do not display the tinsel rhetoric of the orator, the artificial subtlety of the dialectician, or the systematic arrangement of the digester of a code of laws, or of
Had the Scriptures, however, been composed a body of divinity.
in any of these styles, I suspect that they would not have been deemed, even by the same parties, a whit more worthy of reception.
We should then have been told, (and with more reason than accompanies any of the objections made to them as they are,) that they savoured too much of art and contrivance; -- that it were unworthy of the Divine Majesty to compete with man the palm of elegance or ornament of style, or to be bound to that kind of order which is necessary to the feebleness of human intellect; -- that a divine composition might naturally be expected to disregard these trifles, and to possess a style peculiar to itself. And this would be
If the thoughts and ways of God a just statement of the case.
differ from ours, it undoubtedly must be, by their infinite supe-
" For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are riority.
his ways higher than our ways, and Ms thoughts than our thoughts."!

Now it is the chief object of these Lectures to shew, that this is the character of the books called the Holy Scriptures or Word of
God; that they are distinguished from all other compositions by the profoundness of their matter, and by the depth of wisdom with which they are inwardly replete; but that the divine style of writing consists in conveying this wisdom with the utmost fulness, and in the most uninterruptedly coherent series, under the veil of a continued chain of natural images, -- in an outwardly simple style of nature.

language, borrowed entirely from the appearances that exist in
This we have already repeatedly advanced: we have stated,
also, that the genuine import of the Holy Scriptures might be clearly ascertained, and the whole seen to be worthy of a
Divine Origin, were it generally known that there is a constant

* 1 Cor. iii. 19.

f Isa. iv. 9.
Relation established from creation between moral, intellectual, and spiritual essences, and physical, sensible, and material forms; were the
Law which governs this Eelation distinctly understood; and were it applied to the decyphering of the symbolic language, of which the letter of the Word of God is every where composed.
This application then we are to make in this Lecture and our next, and to offer Proofs and Illustrations, to evince, that the Scriptures are written, throughout, according to this Law or Rule.

The nature of this Analogy, and of the Law which governs it,
we endeavoured to investigate in our last Lecture: when we found that man is affirmed by the Scriptures, (and reason cannot dissent from the discovery,) to be created in the image and likeness of
God: -- which, upon the most general interpretation, can mean no less, than that he is provided with faculties and powers for receiving,

in a finite degree, those attributes and qualities which exist in their
Thus the high endowments infinite fulness in the divine nature.
of the human mind, as enjoyed in their primitive and proper state,
without the perversions which evil has introduced, must be deriva*

tive resemblances, images, and types, of underived, original, real,
But we have seen, likewise, that all things in archetypes in God.
the human body are images and types of certain essences and antitypes which exist in the mind; of which man has so clear an intuitive perception, that he often uses, in common discourse, images taken from the organs of his body, to express the affections and other properties of his mind. And we have seen further, that as man is, in a certain manner, an image of God, so all the inferior parts of the creation are, in a certain manner, images of man, and types in him.

thus are, each in its respective station, lower types of certain antiThus we have found by various examples, (and the evidences of the fact might be multiplied to such an extent, as to render negation extremely difficult,) that all things in nature, being outward productions from inward essences, are natural, sensible,
and material types, of moral, intellectual, and spiritual antitypes,
and finally of their prototypes in God. We have seen also, that were the relation between natural types and their spiritual antitypes in all cases fully known, a style of writing might be constructed, in which, while none but natural images were used, purely intellectual
That such a style of com-

ideas should be most fuEy expressed.

position has been constructed, -- that numerous traces of it still exist, and that in ancient times it was extensively understood,- -- 
are propositions which have also. I trust, been satisfactorily demonstrated.

II. The existence of such a Eelation of Analogy being thus, it is hoped, clearly established, with the possibility of a style oi writing being constructed by its aid, which would be singularly adapted for giving full expression to spiritual and divine ideas;
the question now before us is, Are the Scriptures written in this
The answer must be in the affirmative, if, on applying this style?
principle to the decyphering of their language, we find that we every where obtain a clear interpretation, consistent with itself,

and worthy of a Divine Author.
But, in agreement with the plan which we have pursued in our former Lectures, we will first offer some remarks to shew, that if the Scriptures really are the productions of a Divine Author, and thus are written by a plenary divine inspiration, they must be composed in this style, and could be com-

posed in no other.

1. In our first Lecture we endeavoured to evince, that a Composition which has in reality God for its author, must, as to its contents, be infinite and divine, exhibiting, in every page, the glories of eternal wisdom: and in our second Lecture we offered arguments to prove, that this must chiefly be treasured in an inter-

nal sense distinct from that of the letter, -- that a composition which is really the "Word of God, as the Scriptures assume to be,
must contain stores of wisdom in its bosom independently of any
In our last, whilst we enthing that appears upon the surface.
deavoured to establish the certainty of there being a fixed Eelation of Analogy between things natural, spiritual, and divine, we shewed,
that the ground of this is, because the whole Universe is actually an Outbirth from the Deity, and thence must bear, in all its parts,
an immutable Eelation to the attributes and essential properties of
Now, I think, it will, upon a little reflection,
the Divine Nature.
appear, that the communication of a Eevelation from God to man,
must follow the same general law as that which regulated the production of the creation; that as, in the works of God, spiritual essences gave birth, in nature, to material objects, so, in the Word of God, spiritual ideas, to become perceptible in the natural world,
must invest themselves with natural expressions composed of images taken from that world: and thus, as material and natural things answer to moral, spiritual, and divine ones, so do the literal and natural expressions of Scripture answer to spiritual and divine ideas.

As, again, the objects of nature could not have been produced by the Divine Hand independently of any connexion with spiritual and divine essences; so neither could a composition in natural language be produced by the Divine Mind, except by the intervention of spiritual and divine ideas. And both the works and Word of God having such an origin, must be connected with that origin by a determinate Eelation of Analogy; and thus, no Composition really communicated by a Plenary Divine Inspiration, can be written in any style but that which follows the Law of this Eelation. We will consider this a little further.

(1.) When the Divine Truth proceeds from God to irradiate the minds of all intelligent created beings, it evidently must proceed according to the same order as that by which all creation itself
What can the Divine Truth be conproceeded from Him.
ceived essentially to be, but a certain spiritual light, which communicates perceptions to the minds of all intelligent creatures,
according to their respective natures and capacities, whether they be adapted for the apprehension of much truth or little? just as natural light, to which we have seen it answers by analogy, communicates sensations to the eye, and this also with much variety,
according to the structure of the organ; thus the eagle is recreated by the full blaze of day, whilst the owl is reduced by it to a state of torpor, and can only enjoy its existence in the obscure gloom of night.

Neither the spiritual light nor the natural light is inherent in the objects which receive it, but is in both cases imparted from
As the natural light is not inherent a source extraneous to them.
in the eye, and no sensation of it is present but when it flows into the eye from a luminous body, either immediately or by reflection; so neither is spiritual light inherent in the understanding, and no per-

ception of truth can be enjoyed, but by a communication from the
Source of Truth, either immediately or by derivation.

If we admit there to be angels and archangels about the throne of God, they doubtless must be purely spiritual beings, all whose perceptions must be of the most purely spiritual and exalted still, even such beings as these must be merely receptive nature;


subjects, destitute of the power of possessing wisdom absolutely as their own, without a continual communication from the Only

Fountain of Wisdom in God: -- for had they such a power, they would actually be Gods themselves: -- consequently, their percep-

tions of wisdom must be the emanation of Divine Truth, which ever flows from God, like spiritual light from a spiritual sun, as received in their minds.

This is a distinction necessary to be re-

garded.

While it is certain, that no created being, not even the highest and most distinguished, can enjoy a single ray of Truth which is not conveyed to him from its Infinite Fountain, it is equally certain, that the perceptions of truth thus existing in a finite mind, must differ immensely from the Truth itself, as existing
It is modified by the limited capacities of in its Infinite Original.

exact analogy.

the receptive mind, and by its descent into a lower sphere.
form is no longer the same, though one that answers to it by an
The pure Divine Truth has already clothed itself with a veil, though a very transparent one, taken from the angelic nature by which it is received: and if it be made the subject of oral enunciation, the language for expressing it must be borrowed from the ideas of the angels, and from the objects of the angelic

Its world;

still, the purely divine ideas will not cease to exist within.

So it is with natural light.
This exists in its purity only in the sun; and even in the objects which reflect it best it loses much of its brightness; and it assumes a boundless variety of tints of colour and degrees of shade, all borrowed from the bodies on which it falls or through which it shines: yet in all these modifications the light itself exists.

But we know well that the divine creative operations have not been confined to the production of the spiritual and heavenly worlds: natural and material worlds were formed also: and all the objects that exist according to order in the natural worlds, are, as we have already seen, still outbirths from God Himself: deriving their being from the perfections that exist in the divine nature forming, in the lowest sphere, types of those perfections; and presenting, in fact, a divinely constructed mirror, in which spiritual and divine things may be seen and read.
Suppose then a sphere or emanation of Divine Truth to flow forth from God, and not to stop till it reach the lowest base of creation, and there to present itself in natural language j Of what might that language be ex-



pected to consist, but of images taken from the objects that appear in nature, and from the common modes of thinking and acting of the beings whom it there found?
As Divine Truth, if enunciated in the angelic world, must take its expression from the ideas of the angels and from the objects of their world;
so must it, in the natural world, take its expression from the ideas of men, and from the objects of their world; that is, from such ideas as the objects of the natural world would suggest to its inhabitants. We have seen in our second Lecture, that natural language, or language such as is spoken by the inhabitants of a natural world, can be conceived and uttered no where but in the natural world; -- just as, according to man, -- unspeakable by natural organs; and it was this language,

to the Apostle Paul, the language of angels is such as is ineffable not natural speech, which he heard, when he was transported as to his spirit into angelic society: Of course, should the Divine
Being give a revelation of his Divine Truth to men on earth, the ideas of pure divine truth could not present themselves in natural language till they had descended into the natural world: and then they would clothe themselves in language drawn from the appearances that exist in the natural world; which they might con-

veniently do, because all natural objects, answering by an immutable relation to spiritual and divine essences, afford suitable images for

Thus, and no otherwise, could a book,
giving them expression.
written by a Plenary Divine Inspiration, be given to man: if then the Scriptures are such a book, they must be composed in a style of writing constructed in agreement with the Relation of Analogy established by the laws of creation between natural things and spiritual.

(2.) We have seen also, when speaking of this style of writing in our last Lecture, that it is capable of conveying spiritual and divine ideas with a fulness that no other kind of language could afford. This is a reason why the Word of God would be expressed in the symbolic language which we find it clothed with, and not in the abstract, metaphysical language of philosophers, even had it been possible to give it in the latter style; which it was not.
Such abstract, metaphysical language is adapted to the use of men rendered intelligent by the advantages of Revelation, and of men highly illuminated by mediate Revelation; but not of those who are the subjects of immediate Revelation, or who are inspired to write the Word of God itself.
Besides, in the times of remote antiquity,
this artificial language was entirely unknown; and there was no occasion for it, so long as the more forcible and expressive language
Eevelation regards man of analogy continued to be understood.
as a spiritual being, the destined inhabitant of an eternal world:
and its object is, to communicate such knowledge as is necessaiy to raise man to a capacity of filling, in that eternal world, a station,
of happiness and honour: and this knowledge is such as regards the existence and attributes of God, man's immortal destiny, and the
The knowmeans of acquiring the qualifications for enjoying it.

ledge necessary to man's existence in the natural world, -- whatever belongs to that which is called the light of nature, -- though also imparted continually, together with life, from God; and though, as was shewn in our first Lecture, incapable of existing, in any high perfection, separately from the light of Eevelation; is, nevertheless,

not that which B,evelation, in the customary sense of the word, is given to afford.

Eevelation assumes the other as something al-

ready known, and takes its sentiments and expressions as vehicles for the conveyance of its own ideas; -- there being a perfect analogy between all that belongs to man as an inhabitant of a natural world, and belongs to or concerns him as the heir of a spiritual one; of course, between the light of nature and the light of heaven.
Thus the analogical language of the Word of God, though it never uses abstract, metaphysical expressions, is not confined to the mention of the irrational and inanimate parts of nature, but embraces all that arises out of man's inclinations and feelings as an animal and naturally rational being, and as a member of civil society; because all this answers, by a decided mutual relation, to that which belongs to his spiritual affections and feelings, as an immortal and spiritually rational being, designed to become a memThe Divine Truth then, when descending ber of angelic society.
into the world of nature, clothes itself, in part, with language taken from man's ideas as a naturally rational and social being, and in part, from his ideas as an animal being, or from the ideas of things necessaiy to his merely animal existence; the whole being bottomed on the images presented to his thoughts by outward and material
Between all these and things purely spiritual and divine,
nature.
there is a constant Eelation of Analogy: and the application of them, by Infinite Wisdom and Knowledge, to the expression of spiritual and divine subjects, forms the truly Divine Style of Writing,
and marks the book in which it is found as a truly Divine Com-

position.

Where could it thus clothe itself?

All the strength of this argument lies in the suppo-

2. An observation of considerable importance is here necessary
The argument urged with the greatest air of triumph to be made.
by those who deny the verbal inspiration of the Scriptures, is, that if the very words were dictated to the writers, the same phraseology and style of language would every where prevail, and we should not, in these respects, find, in the different books, so much variety.
sition, that the words and phrases themselves, if of divine inspiration, must have proceeded immediately, just as we read them, out of the mouth of God: but the view above developed shews that this could not have been the case, and yet that the human penmen
The very words had nothing to do with selecting the expressions.
of Scripture did not, we have seen, proceed, as we have them in natural language, from the mouth of God himself: but the emanation of Divine Truth from Him clothed itself with natural words
Where,
in the natural world.
in the world of nature, could the Divine Speech find the words
Where, but in the minds of required for its natural expression?
the human agents, who, as passive instruments under the divine c nerations, were made the mediums of writing and delivering it to
The emanation of Divine Truth proceeded from the the world?
Lord, entering into and filling the minds of the writers, so as to take entire possession of all their faculties, clothed itself there with such words as it found their memories stored with: these it adapted to itself, so as to express the divine things intended with the utmost fulness; but it did not infuse new words and phrases, such as the writers had not heard before. And as similar divine things may be expressed in a variety of ways, therefore the Holy Spirit,
or emanation of Divine Truth, could find adequate, though varying uodes of expression, in the minds of all the different instruments
Besides, though the divine things which various it employed.
penmen were commissioned to write, had frequently a general similarity, there cannot be any absolute sameness; and it is highly reasonable to suppose, that the Divine Omniscience selected to compose the several books, particular individuals, whose peculiar


acquirements and style of language were precisely those, which were best adapted to give the proper expression to the peculiar divine subjects which they were to be the organs of revealing;

and there surely can be no doubt, that these always were persons who from their youth had been especially prepared by the Divine
Providence, and directed to such pursuits and acquirements as were best calculated to adapt them for the holy office to which it
Although then every separate penman was intended to call them.
had, and must have had, according to the view here offered, his own peculiarity of style, this does not prevent his writings from being divinely inspired, even as to the very words; since the Holy
Spirit assumed the words in his mind, and thence dictated them
But whilst each writer had his peculiar style, the to his pen.
truly Divine Style is common to them all.
This consists, we have seen, in conveying spiritual ideas by natural images, with undeviating regularity, such as can only be adhered-to by that Omniscience to which the analogies that unite them are perfectly known:
and this is done by all the writers of the Divine Word, though living in very distant ages, -- though they had no means of settling the plan in concert, -- and though many of them, certainly, did not
Divine Spirit which possessed them, -- and which possessed them just while they spoke or wrote, and no longer, -- was every thing understand the writings of each other, or even their own.

The

&>

and they, respectively, were nothing.

3. Another remark of moment, here, also, demands insertion.
It is customary with Biblical Critics, to consider inspiration as something inseparably attached to the persons inspired, so that whatever they might write, from the time of their receiving the endowment to their life's end, would be an inspired composition and some even appear to consider the exercise of the gift as left
That there is entirely to the discretion of the party possessing it.
such a species of inspiration as this, we readily admit; and also,
that it was possessed by the writers of some of the books contained in the collection called the Bible, -- perhaps by them all: but with-

out an inspiration very different from this, imparted either in addi-

tion to it or quite independently of it, no composition that can be called, in a strict and proper sense, "the Word of God", could
This, we have seen, must be given by a ever have been written.


plenary divine inspiration; and such an inspiration, it is evident,
instead of being a constant attendant on any one, could last no longer than while he was delivering the message, or was writing the book, for which it was afforded.
It might return to the same person again, as it commonly did to the old prophets, or it might not: and whatever they might say or write during the intervals,

could only partake of that inferior inspiration capable of being attached to a person; and not necessarily of this. We have seen that this inferior inspiration is the only one now generally acknowledged to belong to any of the books contained in the Bible: we admit that some of these books may be composed from this kind of inspiration, and thence have no sense beside that of the letter but we contend that the far greater quantity, both in bulk and number are certainly written by the higher inspiration, and have
To construct such writings, or to a spiritual sense throughout.*
impart such inspiration, the Divine Speech, or the Divine Word,
which is the same thing as the Divine Truth, must have emanated,
as a sphere of spiritual light, from the bosom of Deity into the circumference or lowest base of creation, which is the world of nature, and, filling the prepared minds of the human penmen,
must there have clothed itself with natural ideas, or with images taken from the natural world, before it could be presented, in natural language, to mankind at large.

This, it is presumed, must at least be allowed to be a probable and a philosophical view of the nature of divine inspiration: it will also, I am satisfied, be found to explain, better than any other theory, the pbamomena with which plenary inspiration must necessarily be attended: and I trust that whoever candidly and deeply examines the subject, will find, that this is absolutely the only way in which a revelation of Divine Truth --  or a plenarily inspired composition, -- can be given, in natural language, from God to man.

III. It will now be readily seen, that if the order above described must necessarily govern every real communication, in the shape of a written revelation, from God to man] if the Divine
Truth must thus clothe itself with ideas and images taken from the world of nature, by the instrumentality of human minds, before
* See Appendix, No. II.


it could be brought into a natural form, and be presented to the inhabitants of a natural world; and if the Divine Style of writing must thus follow the Law of that Analogy which indissolubly connects natural objects and ideas with such as are spiritual and divine; -- then the spiritual and divine wisdom which such a reve-

lation must contain within it, could only be understood, by an application to it of this Law. And if, on an application of this
Law to the books called the Holy Scriptures, it shall be found that they exhibit a coherent series of spiritual and divine instruction,

it will then follow, that the Scriptures are such a revelation of
Divine Truth presented to man in natural language; that they are indeed the Divine Speech or Divine Word which has emanated from the bosom of Deity into the circumference or lowest sphere of creation.

Some short specimens of the light which results from the application of the Rule above stated to the language of Scripture were given in our last Lecture: but it is intended, in the sequel of this and in the next, to adduce a few sets of examples from each of the various kinds of composition that are found in the Holy Word, -- 
the prophetical, the historical, and the preceptive.

IV.* Mankind in general are more inclined to accept a spiritual signification in the prophecies than in the other parts of the Divine

Writings, on account of the mysterious character which they so palpably exhibit; wherefore it will be proper, in the first instance,
to shew the Applicability of the Science of Analogies, (for by this name, to avoid circuitous modes of expression, it may be expedient to denominate the system we have endeavoured to explain,) as a
Eule for interpreting the prophetical parts of Holy Writ.

In our second Lecture, after having offered various arguments to shew, that a Composition which is rightly denominated "the
Word of God", must contain, and that the Holy Scriptures profess to contain, treasures of wisdom beyond what is extant on the surface, we adduced some general testimonies from modern writers to the certainty of this fact, and we intimated that we should mention

* It would be more proper to mark this, and all the Sections which follow to the end of the next Lecture, as Subdivisions under the last General Head but to avoid the inconvenience of beginning a Lecture with a Subordinate Section, the principal of them are marked as Leading Divisions.


duced.

establish.

is unquestionably true,

others in the sequel. We will here then notice the sentiments of
Biblical Critics on what is called vhe Double Sense of Prophecy as we propose to do hereafter on the typical nature of the Scripture
History; and we shall find that we still have great names to countenance (if Truth requires countenance,) the views we wish to
In the days of man's integrity, doubtless, truth was seen, by intuition, as soon as it was heard: they then had no need to "teach every man his neighbour and every man his brother*;
they could decide at once with an infallible "Yea, yea, or Nay,
nay;" and it as the Divine Instructor affirms, that "whatsoever is more than these cometh of evilf", or is a consequence of that obscurity of intellect which evil has introBut the axioms are few indeed on which we can now thus
Beyond the most common principles,
unhesitatingly pronounce.
we now require reasoning to assist our judgment; and where the subject is new to us, we often fear to yield even to the clearest train of induction, unless it comes recommended to us by the judgment of others. Now when any system that is presented to us is entirely new, or has not before been adopted by any whose authority we respect, it evidently cannot have this direct recommendation: but it may have such an indirect one, as is, perhaps, still stronger. For if we find that others, though they have not hit upon the same principle, have yet evidently felt the want of it; -- if they which that proposed is only a more exact modification; -- if their deficiency which the principle suggested supplies: -- if what in them ideas, though evidently true in the main, are attended with some have seen the necessity of admitting some general sentiment of was vague, unsatisfactory, incoherent, becomes, by the proposed addition, determinate, conclusive, and compact: then have we, in their partial dissent, a stronger recommendation of the correction
They offered, than could have attended the fullest acquiescence.

start a problem; if the proposed theory affords precisely that which was felt to be wanting to its complete solution, then both support each other. Now this appears to me to be the true state of the case, between the Science of Analogies, as a universal Rule for the interpretation of the Scriptures, and the doctrine of eminent writers respecting the double sense of prophecy, and the typical import
They advance a general principle, which of the scripture history.

* Jer. xxxi. 34.

f Matt. v. 37.
none can deny, without maintaining a system of interpretation, or rather of mangling, truly Procrustean: and the Science of Analogies, though not recurred to by them, --  at least not in a form sufficiently extensive and definite, affords the only means of satis-

factorily demonstrating their general principle.

1. As some theologians of modern times have attempted to deny any but a literal sense to the Word of God in general, they have also, to preserve consistency, been obliged to deny any more than a single meaning to the prophetical writings; although this denial cannot be maintained without charging the evangelists with gross ignorance, and with mis-application of the prophecies which they
However, the great violence which must be done to have quoted.
the Scriptures if this be asserted, has hitherto prevented this opinion from becoming very general: and the weight of most of our great authorities, in this country at least, is decidedly in favour of the opinion, that the prophetical writings in general have a
Thus Home lays it down as a Canon of interpredouble sense.
tation, in his Introduction to the Critical Study and Knowledge of the Holy Scriptures, that "the same prophecies frequently have a double meaning, and refer to different events, the one near, the other remote; the one temporal, the other spiritual, or perhaps eternal* :" and this rule he supports by very convincing quotations from Dr. Woodhouse, Bishop Home, Dr. Eandolph, the distinguished German critic, Eambach, and the celebrated Latin commentator on Isaiah, Professor Vitringa.
As, however, in the first
Lecture, I spoke of Bishop Lowth, as being one of those who have assisted to introduce degrading ideas of the inspiration of the

Scriptures, I will here avail myself of his testimony in an instance,

in which I think he has well employed his elegant pen in vindi-

cating the spiritual nature of the Sacred Writings: -- though this drawback adheres to his remarks; that he treats the prophetic gift as something inherent in the prophets themselves, regarding their inspiration as a permanent and personal endowment; which, we have seen above, is incompatible with the idea of plenary inspi-

ration, such as that of the prophets must necessarily have been.

In the notes to his version of Isaiah, Dr. Lowth contends, that the whole of the writings of that prophet, from the 40th chapter

* VoL II. Pt. II. Ch. vii. Canon 1.


to the end of the book, refer, in their ulterior and more important meaning, to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, aud the spiritual kingdom to be established by him; while he maintains, that, in their more immediate sense, they relate to the return of the Jews
These are his words: "As the from their captivity in Babylon.
subject of his `[Isaiah's]` subsequent prophecies was to be chiefly of the consolatory kind, he opens them with giving a promise of the restoration of the kingdom [of David], and the return of the people from captivity, by the merciful interposition of God m their favour.
But the views of the prophet are not confined to this event: as the restoration of the royal family, and of the tribe of Judah, which would otherwise have soon become undistinguished, and have been irrecoverably lost, was necessary, in the design and order of providence, for the fulfilling of God's promise of establishing a more glorious and an everlasting kingdom, under the Messiah, to be born of the tribe of Judah, and of the family of David; the prophet connects these two events together, and hardly ever treats of the former without throwing in some intima-

tions of the latter; and sometimes is so fully possessed with the glories of the future more remote kingdom, that he seems to leave the more immediate subject of his commission almost out of the
Indeed", the Bishop adds, "this evangelical sense of question.
the prophecy is so apparent, and stands forth in so strong a light,
that some interpreters cannot see that it has any other; and will not allow the prophecy to have any relation at all to the return
As, however, Dr. Lowth was of from the captivity of Babylon."
opinion, that, in its primary sense, the prophecy relates to the return from Babylon, he here enters into a view of it in that reference: and he sums up his remarks on the subject thus: "These things considered, I have not the least doubt, that the return of the Jews from Babylon is the fi?st, though not the principal, thing
The Redemption from Babylon is clearly in the prophet's view.
foretold; and at the same time is employed as an image to shadow out a redemption of an infinitely higher and more important nature." He makes some other strong remarks upon the necessity of admitting the farther signification of the prophecy and concludes with these words: "If the literal sense of this prophecy, as above explained, cannot be questioned, much less, surely,
can the spiritual; which I think is allowed on all hands, even by


If both are to be admitted, here is a plain exGrotius himself.
ample of the Mystical Allegory, or double sense, as it is commonly called, of prophecy; which the sacred writers of the Neto Testament clearly suppose, and according to which they frequently frame their interpretations of the Old Testament."*

Here then the learned Bishop strongly contends for allowing, in some instances, the existence in prophecy of the mystical allegory

Indeed, the fact is so plain to a student of the or double sense.
prophets, that it almost forces itself upon the most sceptical.
But
I apprehend that every mind not previously aware of the state of opinion on this subject, must be somewhat surprised at the saving clause, "in some instances" which I have here introduced, that I
might not seem to stretch the authority of the Bishop farther than he intended: and because, as observed in the second Lecture,
though most modern writers on Scripture Interpretation admit the necessity of having recourse to a spiritual sense in some instances,
Will not, however, every person who few of them accept it in all.
comes to the question unbiassed, on finding even the most cautious critics compelled to adopt a spiritual sense in some instances, be ready to exclaim, "Why not allow the prophets, and the Scriptures in general, to be written according to a regular system?
If there is a double sense in some places, why not in all?
It surely would be a far more consistent mode of interpretation to admit
You then make the Scriptures uniform this than otherwise.
throughout, and take away that uncertainty which must attend all attempts to explain them, when it is supposed that one part must be understood literally, but that another may be understood spiritually, and we are left to jump, as caprice may dictate, from the letter to the spirit and from the spirit to the letter, without knowing, with any certainty, where we are to abide by the one, or where we are to look for the other." -- We shall touch again, in our next Lecture, upon the inconsistencies into which expositors fall, by following so vague and unsettled a mode of interpretation yet by admitting a spiritual sense in any case whatever, they establish the general principle, which, when extended and rendered uniform, in the manner wre propose, completely solves all the phsenomena of the case: and thus their maimed and limping system bears testimony to that by which its defects are supplied.

* Lowth's Isaiah, Notes on Ch. xl.


Though itself but a mis-shapen shadow, it proves the existence of the symmetrical reality, by an imperfect apprehension of which it was produced. On this subject we will only add, here, that if it were seen that the prophecies, and indeed the other parts of the

Scriptures, every where have a literal sense, in which natural events, connected with the fate of Israel and the surrounding nations, are referred to, but that all these natural events are themselves types and representations of things of spiritual, yea, of eternal moment; then, at any rate, we should regard the Scriptures, as being every where consistent with themselves, -- every where written upon one uniform system: and we should only want the knowledge of the Eelation which all natural things bear to spiritual, to possess a Eule of certain interpretation.

2. Even an approach to this has been made by that great genius, Sir Isaac Newton; who, though his explanations of prophecy have not been generally accepted, yet laid down a Rule of
Analogy, or Mutual Eelation, between the things mentioned and adopted.

the things meant, which succeeding commentators have eagerly
But alas ! his ride does not extend far enough; it not pointing out an analogy between natural things and spiritual things, but only between natural things of a lower order and those of a higher: however, as being an approximation to the true rule of interpretation, and thus tending, as far as it goes, to point to the true rule and confirm it, we will state his system as explained by himself. He delivers it in these words: "The figurative language of the Prophets is taken from the analogy between the world natural, and an empire or kingdom considered as a world politic. Accordingly, the whole world natural, consisting of heaven and earth, signifies the whole world politic, consisting of thrones and people, or so much of it as is considered in prophecy: and the
For the things in that world signify the analogous things in this.
heavens and the things therein signify thrones and dignities, and those who enjoy them; and the earth, with the things thereon,
the inferior people; and the lowest parts of the earth,
Hades or Hell, the lowest or most miserable part of them.
Great earthquakes, and the shaking of heaven and earth, are put for the shaking of kingdoms, so as to distract and overthrow them; the creating a new heaven and earth, and the passing called


of an old one, or the beginning and end of a world, for the rise
The sun, for the and ruin of a body politic, signified thereby.
whole species and race of kings, in the kingdoms of the world politic; the moon, for the body of the common peopie; considered as the king's wife; the stars, for subordinate princes and great men; or for bishops and rulers of the people of God, when the sun is Christ: -- the setting of the sun, moon, and stars; darkening of the sun, turning the moon into blood, and falling of the stars, for for the ceasing of a kingdom."*

This idea is certainly very striking: accordingly, it is taken up and carried on by 13ishop Warburton, in these words: "The old
Asiatic style, so highly figurative, seems, by what Ave find of its remains in the prophetic language of the Sacred Writings, to have been evidently fashioned to the mode of ancient hieroglyphics, both curiologic and tropical. --  Of the second kind, which answers to the tropical hieroglyphic, is the calling empires, kings, and nobles, by the names of the heavenly luminaries, the sun, moon, and stars their temporary disasters, or entire overthow, by eclipses and ex-

tinctions: the destruction of the nobility, by stars falling from the firmament; hostile invasions, by thunder and tempestuous winds;
and leaders of armies, conquerors, and founders of empires, by
In a word, the prolions, bears, leopards, goats, or high trees.
phetic style seems to be a speaking Hieroglyphic, "f

Here, certainly, the existence in Scripture of a St\/le of Writing formed upon the principle of Mutual Relation, by putting some lower thing to stand as the type of a higher to which it is perceived to answer, is clearly recognized, and the necessity of admit-

ting it is strongly enforced.

In the theory, then, of these eminent writers, in which, as stated above, they have been generally followed by later expositors, we certainly have an approximation to the revival of the Science of Analogies: Dr. Warburton also ex-

plicitly affirms the opinion advocated in the latter part of our last
Lecture, -- that this
Science, in ancient times, was extensively understood; -- so extensively, according to him, as to give a pecu-

liar character to the compositions of the countries where it was chiefly cultivated, the language of which he thence denominates
" the old Asiatic Style."

* Observations on Prophecy, Pt. i. ch. 2.
f Div. Legation, Book iv. Sect. 4.


3. But, is the principle of Analogy, as broached by these authors, to form a key to the interpretation of the "speakingHieroglyphics "of the prophetic style of writing, sufficiently definite, and sufficiently extended?
Will it lead us to the knowledge of that which may properly be called, the spiritual sense of Scripture? -- any otherwise, that is, than as pointing to the right path which will conduct us to this object; -- as suggesting the principle,

which, when rectified and carried on, will attain this end.
They interpret, we see, one natural thing, as the sun or moon, to mean another natural thing of a different order, as the king or people and it is evident that the sense thus obtained is but a natural
The general truth of the sense, and not a spiritual one, after all.
natural interpretation thus established, is, indeed, in many instances, very evident. We have seen that Dr. Lowth affirms that the return of the Jews from Babylon is treated of by Isaiah, from the fortieth chapter to the end of his prophecies, though in lan^
guage, even in this application, far from admitting a literal signification: so in the thirteenth chapter, the destruction of Babylon is described in the symbolic terms which form the chief subject of the observations on the prophetic style above adduced from Sir
Isaac Newton: "The stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine* :" -- and certain it is that the Babylonian empire was entirely overthrown,
and that the Jews were restored by its conqueror to their country.
These events, then, were "thejirst though not the principal things
Still it must be most certain, that acin the prophet's view."
counts, though delivered prophetically and in symbolic language, of the revolutions of kingdoms, can never be things intended to occupy a place in the Word of God, any otherwise than as types
Accordingly, Bishop Lowth of things of far greater moment.
assures us, that "the redemption from Babylon is employed as an image, to shadow out a redemption of an infinitely higher and more important nature:"
it is the height of inconsistency to imagine, that any of the numerous other predictions which have natural and temporal catastrophes and deliverances as the first things in view, have not also such as are spiritual and eternal as if so,

the principal.

Could it then be proved that all the prophecies of

* Isaiah xiii. 10.


Scripture have thus had a fulfilment in external events; and could all their mysterious language be clearly appropriated to correspondit would still be true, that the spiri-

ing historical circumstances;
tual things described in the ulterior sense of the prophetic language,

were typically pictured by such external events; -- that a spiritual fulfilment was at the same time primarily regarded, and that oi this was given, in the corresponding historical circumstances, a
In agreement, then, with the symbolic scenical representation.
learned authors to whom we have referred, it is to be assumed as an unquestionable fact, that the language of prophecy is composed of series of analogies and mutual relations: but, in agreement with the character and necessary design of a divinely inspired composition, the analogies and relations properly intended, are not those which may be traced between certain natural things and certain other natural things, but between natural things and spiritual.
The general spiritual objects regarded are, the Lord, the soul of man, his state hereafter, and the church, as the medium of ministering spiritual things to man.

We will here repeat the quotation on the science of analogies,
above adduced from Sir Isaac Newton, so altered as to apply to the analogy between the natural things mentioned in Scripture,
and the spiritual things to which they properly answer, instead of the other natural things to which that author referred them.*
" The figurative language of the prophets is taken from the analogy between the world natural and a church or congregation
Accordingly the whole of people considered as a world spiritual.
world natural, consisting of heaven and earth, signifies the whole world spiritual, consisting of an internal and an external principle, answering to what is called, in individuals, the internal and external man; and the things in that world signify the analaTor the heavens and the things therein siggous things in this.
nify the internal 'principles, and all the heavenly graces, constituent earth, with the things thereon, the outioard form, and order, pro*

of a church, -- or, all that belongs to the internal man; and the fession and practice, of the same, -- or, all that belongs to the external man: and the lowest parts of the earth, called Hades or Hell,
the external man when entirely separated from the internal, so as to be the mere abode of infernal lusts and insane follies, with the
* The alterations are printed in Italics.
state of misery consequent thereupon hereafter;  --  it also sometimes means a state of temptation, because in this, man appears to he in,
Great earthquakes, and the or in danger erf, such a condition.
shaking of heaven and earth, are put for the shaking of churches,
so as to distract and overthrow them, or at least to occasion a remarkable change in their state: the new heaven and earth, and the passing of an old one, or the beginning and end of a world,
for the rise and ruin of a society of men as constituting a church.
The sun is put for the first of heavenly graces constituent of a true church, which is love to the Lord and our neighbour; the moon,

for that true faith ichich is the proper consort of such love or charity; the stars, for subordinate particulars of divine knowledge,

 -- or for eminent lights of the church, when the sun is Christ: the setting of the sun, moon, and stars, -- darkening of the sun, turning the moon into blood, and falling of the stars, -- for the ceasing of a church, or of a society from constituting a church, hi consequence of a pure love to the Lord, faith in Him, and a knowledge of spiritual subjects, being no longer left among them, or being per-

verted into their opposiles.

,}

Now though the dry statement, that such is the spiritual meaning of certain natural emblems*, may not carry the conviction of its truth to every mind; yet I think the significations here assigned to the great objects of "the world natural" will at once be seen to have more to recommend them, than Sir Isaac's application of them to the objects of "the world politic:" for the analogies we have suggested are founded in the very nature and constitution of things, and do not depend, as do some of his, upon the arbitrary
His testimony, however, in favour of the
And as many learned and intelligent writers have thus seen the necessity of resorting to analogies be-

principle, is highly valuable.

institutions of society.

tween different orders of existences, to obtain a key for decyphering the "speaking hieroglyphics" of divine prophecy; so, I trust, it must readily be admitted, by all who may think that our former
Lecture succeeded in establishing the existence of a real Analogy between Natural things and Spiritual, that this affords the true

Eule for interpreting the language of prophetic inspiration.
If,
also, the Scriptures are the Word of God, they must be designed

* See the several particulars taken up, and more fully explained, in the

Appendix, No. III.

to convey, not natural, but spiritual instruction: But the Scriptures, we find, consist in their letter, as is remarkably obvious in the prophets, of continued series of natural images: How then can they convey spiritual instruction, unless there be such a fixed relation between spiritual ideas and natural ones, that the latter will
Admitting admit of being regularly translated into the former?
these premises, the applicability of the Science of Spiritual Analogies, as a Eule for the interpretation of prophecy, and as an improvement on the natural analogies proposed by Newton and
Warburton, cannot be doubted. And this will convert the material images of the letter, into a mirror resplendent with heavenly glories; as the gross substances composing the disk of the moon reflect to us the light of the sun.

V. Since then we find, altogether, so great a concurrence of circumstances, leading us to expect, first, that a real Revelation from God, in natural language, must contain a spiritual sense beyond that of the letter, and must be composed according to the law of the Analogy necessarily subsisting between spiritual things and natural; and, secondly, that the books commonly received as the Word of God, do, in general, "contain such a spiritual sense,
and are written according to this Law: we proceed to ascertain the fact, in regard to the prophetical writings in particular, by trying, in two or three instances, what sort of sense is obtained by applying the Science of Analogies to their interpretation. We will select an example from each of the three prophetic authorities of the Divine Word; -- the Prophets of the Old Testament, the
Lord Jesus Christ when on earth, and the Apocalyptic Divine.

1. In the book of Ezekiel we have this very extraordinary prophetic declaration: "And thou, son of man, thus saith the Lord
God: Speak unto every feathered fowl, and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves, and come; gather yourselves on every side to my sacrifice that I do sacrifice for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, that ye may eat flesh and drink
Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood blood.
of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks, all of them fatlings, of Bashan. And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye be drunken, of my sacrifice which

7


Thus shall ye be filled at my table with
I have sacrificed for you.
horses and chariots, with mighty men and with all men of war,
saith the Lord God."*

These words form part of a prophecy, occupying the whole of two chapters, against Gog and Magog, who are described as about to invade the land of Israel, there to meet with total destruction and I have selected them as our first example of the application of the Science of Analogies to the interpretation of the language of prophecy, because they form one of the passages in the prophetic writings that appear most deeply wrapped in mystery, and of which the literal sense is involved in the greatest obscurity.
The mere sense of the words, is, indeed, sufficiently obvious; but what the events are, in the history of the Jews and other nations, to which the prophecy may be supposed to point; or, in the language of Bishop
Lowth, what was "the flrst thing in the prophet's view" when he
In such pasdelivered it; has never been satisfactorily shewn.
sages as this, then, the certainty that the Divine Word must contain a spiritual sense, and the need of a key for the decyphering of it, are more peculiarly evident. And as the existence of such passages is calculated to throw much light upon the nature of divine prophecy in general, some remarks upon them may not be out of place.

(1.) Although it appears that prophecy sometimes assumes the form of anticipated history, and receives its first fulfilment in events affecting the fates of different nations, yet in some instances it will be found no otherwise to partake of the nature of anticipated history, than as parable approaches to that of past history; that is, it is similar in form, but is to be understood as pure allegory,
in which, though the ideas conveyed by the letter are perfectly distinct, they do not announce any corresponding natural events,

Another very but are to be spiritually understood altogether.
remarkable instance of this kind of prophecy, in which the spiritual sense alone is intended for fulfilment, occurs in Isaiah, who opens his sixty-third chapter with a sublime dialogue between the prophet and a glorious Personage who is presented to the rapt eye of the seer; "Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of his strength? ""I that speak in righteousness, mighty
* Ezek. xxxix. 17 to 20.


to save.'*

" Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy gar-
"I have trodden ments like him that treadeth in the wine-fat?"
the wine-press alone, and of the people there was none with me for I will tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury and their blood shall be sprinkled on my garments, and I will stain all my raiment: for the clay of vengeance is in my heart, and the year of my redeemed is come. And I looked, and there was none to help, and I wondered that there was none to uphold: therefore mine own arm brought salvation to me, and my fury it upheld
The impossibility of applying this prediction to any me*," &c.
historical events, must be evident to all whose minds are not preoccupied with a system: but I will here deliver my sentiments in the words of Bishop Lowth.
Speaking of this passage, he observes,
" It is by many learned interpreters supposed, that Judas Maccabaeus and his victories make the subject of it [the above passage].
What claim Judas can have to so great an honour, will, I think, be very difficult to make out; or how the attributes of the great PerCould Judas call himself son introduced can possibly suit him.
the Announcer of Righteousness, mighty to save?

Could he talk of the day of vengeance being in his heart, and the year of his redeemed being come? or that his own arm wrought salvation for him?
Besides, what were the exploits of Judas in regard to the
Idumaeans? he overcame them in battle, and slew twenty thousand of them. And John Hyrcanus, his brother Simon's son and successor, who is called in to help cut the accomplishment of the prophecy, gave them another defeat some time afterward, and compelled them by force to become proselytes to the Jewish religion.
Are these events adequate to the prophet's lofty prediction?" The weakness of such a supposition is further exposed by our learned author: and then he adds, "I conclude, therefore, that this proIt may be phecy has not the least relation to Judas Maccabseus.
asked, To whom, and to what event, does it relate? I can only answer,
that Ilznoio of no event in history to which, from its importance and circumstances, it can be applied: unless, perhaps, to the destruction of Jerusalem and the Jewish Polity: which in the gospel is called the coming of Christf , and the days of vengeance.
But though this prophecy must have its accomplishment, there is no necessity for supposing that it has been already accomplished.
There are f But it is not called a coming from Edom and Bozrah.

* Ver. 1 to 5.


prophecies, which, intimate a great slaughter of the enemies of God and his people, which remain to be fulfilled: these, in Ezekiel, ch.
xxxviii., and in the Eevelation of St. John, ch. xx., are called Gog
This prophecy of Isaiah may possibly refer to the and Magog.
same or the like event.
"We need not be at a loss to determine the
Person who is here introduced as stained with treading the winepress, if we consider how St. John, in the Eevelation, has applied this image of the prophet.

Eev. xix. 13, 15, 16."*

Dr. Lowth here explicitly gives his opinion, that neither Ezekiel's prophecy of Gog and Magog, nor Isaiah's vision of the Lord's coming from Edom, have yet received any outward accomplishment but he evidently is at a loss to reconcile this conveniently with his system, which led him to suppose, that all the predictions of Scrip-

ture must have such an accomplishment; wherefore he suggests,
that though this must be the fact, it may be postponed sine die.
It is evident, however, that if no historical events answering to these two prophetic declarations occurred previously to the gospel era, nor even up to the present times; so great is the change which has taken place in the situation of the world and its nations,

There is no longer a that no such events can take place hereafter.
country of Edom, and its metropolis, Bozrah, from whence an
Announcer of Eighteousness and Eedeemer of his people can come:
and though it may be true that the Gog and Magog of the Scriptures, in their literal sense, are the ancient Scythians; yet, should we recognise these again in the modern Tartars; or, with one of the multitude of expositors who applied the dark prophecies of Scripture to the events of the last great war, could we even discover the
Gog and Magog of Ezekiel and John in the Autocrat of Russia and his subjects; it would be idle to expect that these will at any period be gathered together in the land of Israel, to be there whelmed in utter destruction; since the land of Israel can never again be put in the situation which the prophecy supposes, -- in-

habited by Jews returned from the captivity in Babylon.

It really then is impossible that these prophecies should ever obtain an external fulfilment: they must have a spiritual one, or none.

Now the embarrassment which such passages occasion to those who hold the common sentiments respecting the design of the prophetic writings, arises hence: that although, with Dr. Lowth,

* Lowth's Isaiah, Notes on ch. lxiiL


expositors affirm certain outward events to be "the first, but not the principal^ things in the prophet's view", they at the same time make this subordinate accomplishment more indispensable than the other: for while they look every where for an outward reference of prophecy, they only allow it to have a spiritual sense in some in-

stances, -- in those places, where it is too plain to be overlooked.
But if the converse of this idea be the true one; if "the principal thing in the prophet's view", (or rather, in the view of the Inspirer of the prophets,) is the principal thing indeed; if to impart in-

struction on spiritual subjects is, in fact, the only thing regarded by the Divine Mind in giving a revelation; and if this is equally imparted, by the language of prophecy, when it speaks, in the letter, of natural events, whether such events were ever acted, or intended to be acted, on the outward theatre of the world, or not

 -- then we have a view of the nature of divine prophecy which can occasion no embarrassment, and we shall not be compelled to torture the facts, to make them agree with the hypothesis.

Although, therefore, as admitted above, the Scriptures have every where a literal sense, in which natural events, connected with the fate of Israel and the surrounding nations, are referred to; it is by no means essential to the truth of prophecy, that the

In general,
natural events spoken of should actually be performed.
it may be so: if any man can prove it to be so always, we can have no objection; since, wherever an outward fulfilment takes of the prophecy.

place, the actual occurrences become, themselves, t}rpes of the same spiritual things as are principally referred to in the words
But if the divine origin of prophecy can still be maintained, even where no outward accomplishment of it can be satisfactorily shewn, the authority of Eevelation is certainly made more secure. And it is well known, that though many of the predictions of Scripture have had a clear outward fulfilment in some of their leading points, yet this can seldom be distinctly traced through the subordinate particulars: which throws over them so much obscurity, that the Infidel finds a pretence for
Such rejection is certainly
Many Scripture prophecies have had so plain an outward fulfilment in their leading points, that, while these alone are regarded, there is no room for dispute: the conclusion then should rejecting the application altogether.

unjust.

be, that the particulars which cannot so well be applied to outward events, are at the same time thrown in, not to invalidate the former, but to lead to the inference, that spiritual tilings, of far higher moment, are referred to by the whole.

For the same pur-

pose, important prophecies, like that before us, occasionally occur,
to which, unless we allow them a spiritual sense, we cannot assign
Thus, the whole is arranged with adany consistent sense at all.
Many predictions are given, which have had, in mirable wisdom.
their main points, so striking an outward accomplishment, as is calculated to awaken the attention even of those who will believe nothing which they cannot verify by their outward senses; and upon a closer inspection other parts will be found, calculated to raise the mind to more elevated contemplations, and to satisfy the understanding, that Divine Prophecy has higher objects than to announce the fate of nations, or even than, by such marks of

Omniscience, to evince the divine origin of Eevelation.

(2.) That the prophecy of Ezekiel before us, of the invasion of the Land of Israel by Gog and his consequent destruction, has no connexion with the affairs of the Israelites or any other nations in particular, thus was not intended to have any outward accomplish-

ment, is evident from the parallel passage in the Eevelation, referred to in the extract above given from Bishop Lowth. In Ezekiel, the irruption of Gog is described as taking place, when the people of
Israel, having returned from captivity, are enjoying their country in peace; -- "It is brought forth out of the nations, and they shall dwell safely all of them* ;" -- "Therefore, son of man, prophesy,

and say unto Gog, Thus saith the Lord God; In that day, when my people of Israel dwelleth safely, shalt thou not know it? And thou shalt come from thy place out of the north parts, thou, and many people with thee, all of them riding upon horses, a great company and a mighty army; and thou shalt come up against my peopje of Israel, as a cloud to cover the landf;" &c.
Very similar are the circumstances referred to in the parallel passage of the
Eevelation, though they are there described under very different images. An interval of security is promised, and represented as a period in which the martyrs "lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years! ;" after which the desperate enemy is to invade
Judaea and besiege Jerusalem: "And when the thousand years are expired, Satau shall be loosed out of prison, and shall go out to

* Ezek. xxxviii. 8.

f Ver. 14, 15, 16.

J Rev. xx. 4.
deceive the nations which are in the four quarters `[corners]` of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle; the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. And they went up on the breadth of the earth [the land of Israel], and compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire* came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them."f Now it is perfectly evident, that the latter of these two predictions is not given as detailing occurrences which were to take place according to the letter.

Since the church of the Lord, instead of being con-

fined, as under the Jewish dispensation, to the territory of Palestine,

is spread over a great portion of the globe, it is impossible for its members to be surrounded by hordes of barbarians collected from
" the four corners", or remotest extremities, of the earth, and to be shut up in any "beloved city", in the land of Judea or any
The prophecy, doubtless, must be fulfilled; but only where else.

in its spiritual sense can it be fulfilled: of course, the spiritual sense only is that which is intended. And what other conclusion can be drawn respecting the parallel prophecy of Ezekiel, the main circumstances of which are similar, though more particulars are
No outward fulfilment of it took place, between the detailed?
period in which it was delivered by Ezekiel and that in which the
Revelation was given to John; and after this time, no other fulfilment of it was practicable than such as was alone applicable, to the parallel prediction of the New Testament prophet: if, then, the one was never intended to have any but a spiritual fulfilment, so,
(I deem it needless to notice the attempts neither, was the other.
mat have been made to find a solution of Ezekiel's prediction in me troubles which the Jews experienced from the Macedonian
Gog and Magog, who inhabited, according to the kings of Syria.
Eevelation, "the four corners" of the earth, and, according to
Ezekiel, "the sides of the north*," both which phrases are evidently designed to express extreme remoteness, cannot possibly be names for Syria, the immediate neighbour of Judsea: nor was any attack upon Judsea by the Antiochi attended with the total de-

struction of the invading nation.

All judicious critics, therefore,
with Dr. Lowth, reject such an application of the prophecy, as totally unworthy of its majesty and importance.)

* Compare Ezek. xxxviii. 22, and xxxix. 6.

f Rev. xx. 7, S,':9»

J Ch, xxxix. 2, marginal translation.


(3.) If then in this prophecy, we are constrained to look for a spiritual interpretation, let ns see how this will be developed by the
Science of Analogies. The Israelites, as being anciently the people who alone possessed a knowledge of the true God, were, as was shewn in our second Lecture by the testimony of the Apostle Paul,
types of the true Church of the Lord, and of its true members,
under every dispensation; and the land they inhabited evidently had a similar representation: the land itself represented the church with all that properly belongs to it, in regard especially to the graces by the presence of which the church exists, either in individuals or societies; and its metropolis, Jerusalem, also represented the church, but as to the more interior and immediate abode of it in the human mind; whilst the temple with its worship were expressive of the Lord's presence, and communion with him, in the inmost of all. Now if the land of Judaea thus symbolizes the true
Church and all the graces which properly constitute it, Analogy must lead us to conclude, that the countries around it represent the exterior relations of the church, -- which are such general principles in the mind of man as have a greater or less degree of affinity with those which are constituent of the church, -- according as they are nearer to the land of Israel or farther off from it . and those which were most remote of all, must be symbolic of such principles in regard to religion as are most gross and external,

most distant from every thing that belongs to a true internal
But the application of Analogy to the formation of church.
a system of Spiritual Geography, demands a more exact con-

sideration.

(4.) The mind of man evidently consists of a great number of affectuous and intellectual faculties and tendencies, very distinct from each other. The love of God and our neighbour, for instance,
are very different principles from the love of worldly power and worldly possessions; and those intellectual exercises which are conversant with divine and heavenly subjects, no less vary from those which are confined to matters of a corporeal and earthly nature: and it is evidently congenial to our natural feelings and perceptions, to assign to the former of each of these classes of sentiments, a higher and more interior seat in the mind, than to the latter; we acknowledge, in common discourse, the one to be sublime and exalted feelings and contemplations, the other to be such ps are low and gro veiling. Nor will our conceptions on this subject be much altered, whatever may be the theoretical views which we are inclined to entertain of the nature of the mind.
If, with one class of metaphysicians, we believe the mind to be one simple principle, the whole of which is concerned in every one of its exercises, though under a distinct modification in each; then we must consider the whole mind, when under the influence of heavenly love and wisdom, to be in a sublime and exalted state, or to be under a modification of that description: or if, with others, we conceive the mind, like the body, to consist of a great variety of organs, each having its proper function; then we must consider those which are the seats of disinterested benevolence and of the perceptions of divine and heavenly subjects, to be placed in an elevated and interior region, and those which are appropriated to grosser tendencies and mean conceptions, to be respectively low and external. Our observations here proceed upon the supposition,
that the latter view of the nature of the mind is the true one; but we have mentioned the other to shew, that, should the opinion that the mind is one simple principle be correct, the views we assume of the higher and lower nature of its various emotions and contemplations would still be applicable to it, and would only require a little alteration in the mode of stating them.
However, let us suppose the miud itself to be composed of distinct organs, appropriated to distinct affections and distinct classes of thought: It is true that to immaterial principles we cannot assign any of the relations of space or place; and yet it is certain that we are so sensible of the existence of a determinate analogy between these and the immaterial mind and its properties, as continually to apply to the latter, terms which properly denote the relations of place; thus wtalk of a great mind and a little mind, a lofty mind and a low mind; of elevated desires and of grovelling ones, of liigli thoughts and of creeping ones; of an internal and deep conception of things,
or of an external and superficial one; we speak also of provinces of mind, and realms of thought: and use a multitude of other like phrases.

Suppose then that we possessed a knowledge of the general principles, both voluntary and intellectual, of which the mind consists, and were desirous to present them more distinctly to our view, by describing them bv some of the ideas borrowed from the

7*
analogy, which we intuitively perceive to subsist, between the relations of mind and the relations of place: suppose, as mathematicians resort to diagrams to assist their conceptions of the relations of quantity, we even wished to assist our conceptions of the mind by some sensible delineation, and were to conceive the thought of mapping out the various provinces of intellect and affection which we perceive to exist in it: -- how should we commence the execu-

tion of the plan, but by laying down, in the centre of our scheme,
a region, to be considered as representing that part of the mind which is the seat of the most exalted affections and sentiments,
being those which have for their objects the topics of true religion,
or those which embrace the love and vital knowledge of God?
Should we not, around this central region, allot various districts,
to represent those parts of the mind, whose functions consist of attachments to subordinate objects and of intellectual exercises of an inferior character? And should we not place in the- circumference of our map of that "little world", or microcosm, the mind of man, those faculties, both affectuous and intellectual, which,
though still belonging to the mind, have the closest affinity with the body, and partake the least of any thing of a purely spiritual nature, -- being such as belong to the province of merely corporeal sensations, and of ideas of such things as either afford no room, or are too grossly apprehended to give occasion, for the exercise of
Such, certainly, would be our the higher intellectual powers?
mode of proceeding, were we to attempt to draw a map of the mind, by following out the analogy which every one perceives to exist between the relations of mind and the relations of place.

Such a map, then, is ready drawn to our hands by the Spirit of

God, -- to whom alone the analogies between natural and spiritual things of all kinds are fully known, -- in the geography of the

Scriptures.

In this map, the land of Israel is considered as the central region which is the seat of all the truly spiritual affections and perceptions of the human mind (: and hence was derived the notion of the Jews, that their country constituted the middle of the earth's surface; -- an opinion which was true in spiritual though not in physical geography: -- and a similar transferring, by them, of ideas which are true in a spiritual sense, to a natural application in which they are false, has given rise to many of that people's absurd, superstitious opinions and practices, the origin of


So, following the law which would be otherwise unaccountable).
of Analogy, the countries situated around the land of Canaan, will represent the subordinate mental powers and faculties. We will illustrate this by one or two examples.
The great neighbour of Israel -- the type of the spiritual part of the mind, -- on one side, was Egypt; which represents what be-

longs entirely to the natural man, but, specifically, the Science or
Knowledge of the natural man, with the faculty for acquiring it and the powerful state which bordered upon Israel on the other side, was Assyria; which represents the Rational Faculty, and the Eeasoning Powers, in general. Now as Science and Seasoning, when separated from all regard to religion, or to true religion,
and placed in opposition to it, are two of its most dangerous enemies; therefore we read so much of the troubles which these two nations brought upon the Israelites: but as, nevertheless,

they are capable of being rendered extremely serviceable to true religion, and are themselves exalted by being submitted to its influence; therefore we meet with predictions of a state in which
Thus it is said in Isaiah, "In that this union should be effected.
day there shall be an altar to the Lord in the midst of the land of
Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the Lord* ;" words which plainly indicate the complete submission to a divine influence, of the principle, power, or faculty, represented by Egypt,

from its inmost essence -- "the midst" -- to its last extremity -- 

"the border thereof." And that this shall be closely connected with the principle, power, or faculty, represented by Assyria,
which shall be submitted, with it, to the divine government, is presently taught in these words: "In that day there shall be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria: and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria: and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians."! And again, that both shall be united with the principle represented by Israel, is beautifully expressed when it is immediately added, "-In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the land!:" where the third means that which completes and adds perfection, -- the number three, so generally considered to in-

volve a mystery, denoting that which is complete and perfect; for which reason it is also said, that Israel shall be a blessing in the

* Isaiah xix. 19.

f Ver. 23.

J Ver. 24.
midst of tlie land; implying, that the principle represented by

I-rael shall become a centre, --  a sort of life-giving essence, -- to the other two; as is the case with the principle of true religion, when the mind is in its proper order throughout.
the predictions of Scripture, of which no outward fulfilment, at all

This also is one of adequate to the terms of it, can be pointed out; for to refer it, as done by Bishop Newton and others, to the propagation of Judaism in Egypt and Assyria, in consequence of the dispersion and captivities of the Jews in those countries, is merely to trifle with words so august and solemn. And if this prophecy has received no outward fulfilment heretofore, the altered state of the world certainly renders it impossible that it should receive such an acBut we shall have a view which well complishment hereafter.
harmonizes with the expressions, and rises out of them by a just analogy, if we understand them spiritually, as pointing to the

*union, in a glorious state of the church, of the three great orders

In this view, Egypt is the or degrees of the intellectual powers.

lowest of these powers, -- the Science of Knowledge of the natural man, -- or such as chiefly arises from the exercise of the faculty which the metaphysicians call simple perception: -- Assyria is a higher intellectual power, -- that which reflects and reasons, -- or analysis and comparison: -- whilst Israel is the supreme intellectual power of all, -- the Wisdom which connects all with God, and con-

the Intelligence which results from the exercise of the faculties of templates, with interior discernment, spiritual and divine subjects,
which it applies, causing the lower attainments also to be applied,
to the glory of God and the benefit of mankind.
A.nd if we consider these three orders of intellectual powers to have three distinct provinces of the mind appropriated to them as their seats, we shall see why they are represented by the three countries of Egypt,
Assyria, and Israel , -- such representation following accurately the
Law of that Analogy, which, we have before seen, we all intuitively recognise, between the relations of mind and the relations of place.

To prove that such is the signification in the Scriptures of these three countries, would require a consideration of the numerous it would then appear with occasions on which they are mentioned:
clearness from the significant attributes and actions ascribed to them respectively: But this would detain us too long, and is also not necessary for our present object, which is merely to shew, that certain faculties or provinces of the mind are meant by the countries mentioned in the Holy Word, without determining that which is specifically intended by each: and this, I trust, must be pretty evident, in regard to the countries of Egypt, Assyria, and Israel,

whether the explanations which have been attempted be altogether
But I think that not much doubt will remain,
accepted or not.
even here, with any inquirer, who will take the pains to make an extensive examination of the passages where they are mentioned.
Let him understand by Egypt, when spoken of unfavourably, those fallacies and appearances, with which Science, when not cultivated from pure motives, opposes the doctrines of true religion; (but under the name of Science is here to be understood, not only the knowledge of natural things, but an acquaintance also with the literal sense of the Word of God, from which, when separated from all connexion with its spirit, confirmations, as is well known, may and have been drawn, in favour of the most erroneous religious sentiments, and in opposition to the most evident truths:) so, by
Egypt, when not unfavourably mentioned, are to be understood the views of true Science, -- natural truths in general, both those drawn the Word: -- Let our inquirer, also, understand by Assyria, when from the appearances of nature and those from the literal sense of spoken of with censure, that intellectual principle which appears like intelligence, but is mere adroitness in reasoning, or dexterity in managing a debate, independently of the truth or falsehood of the premises assumed; -- or, when it is mentioned with approbation,
faculty: -- And let him regard both the principle of Science and the that intelligence which results from the right exercise of the rational

Rational principle, as occupying distinct provinces of the mind,
and consider these provinces to be what are specifically meant by
Whoever does this, will find a the realms of Egypt and Assyria.
coherent and beautiful spiritual sense arise, in every instance where those countries are mentioned; provided he has some idea of the spiritual reference of the other natural images with which they are accompanied, which will always be found exactly to harmonize with this signification of the countries.*

* I am not sufficiently acquainted with the science, as it is called, of Phrenology, to form any decided opinion of the solidity of its pretensions; Even should its general principles he true, I should apprehend that many mistakes
(5.) I have dwelt at some length on this part of our subject,
because, perhaps, nothing connected with the spiritual interpreta-

tion of the Scriptures appears more questionable at first, than the assertion, that all the countries mentioned in the Word of God,
designate certain faculties or principles in the human mind; when yet, on the idea being examined, it must be seen, that the analogy which it supposes, -- that between the relations of mind and the relations of place, -- is one of those, of which we have the clearest intuitive perception, and from which we draw several phrases in common discourse.
All the difficulties then that can afterwards arise, in determining what mental faculties are represented by the various countries spoken of in the Scriptures, will be owing to our imperfect knowledge of what the faculties of the mind really are,
and what are their distinguishing characteristics, and relative dignity.
But these difficulties can only attach to the countries intermediate in their situation between Judsea and the most remote realms that are mentioned: of these latter, the signification will be obvious.

must for a long time be expected to accompany the attempts to follow them out into their various ramifications: But I cannot dismiss the subject before us without observing, that I was lately much struck, on looking into the transactions of the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh, with the extraordinary coincidence of their description of the organs which they consider to be seated in the fore part of the brain, with the idea which I had formed of the signification,
in Scripture, of the countries of Egypt, Assyria, and Israel.
Their acoount of the functions of the organ which they denominate "Individuality", and of their
" Knowing Faculties "in general, is exactly that which appears to belong to the "land of Egypt", considered as the symbol of a certain province of the mind: their organs of "Comparison "and "Causality", or their "Reflecting
Faculties "in general, answer, with equal accuracy, to the Scriptural "land of
Assyria;" and their "Veneration" and "Benevolence" as certainly belong to
I am therefore thorougbly convinced, that, in their acthe "land of Israel."
counts of these "organs", they exhibit a correct conception of certain decided faculties or provinces of the mind, whether the parts of the brain in which they suppose these to be located during their connexion with the body, be accurately determined, or capable of being determined, or not.
Should, then, future observations confirm their discoveries in the main, only correcting what may at present be erroneous; instead of apprehending from the establishment of their science consequences injurious to the belief of the Scriptures, we may hope to find in it additional means of confirming their plenary inspiration.
Assuredly,
a strong confirmation of this is afforded, when the same truths are brought to light by Science, as had long before been assumed by Revelation, as the basis of its instruction*
These, then, we have already seen, are those which are called, in the prophecy of Ezekiel before us, and in the corresponding prediction of the Revelation, the land of Gog and Magog, -- a region situated in "the corners of the earth", in "the sides of the north
 -- which are emphatic descriptions of extreme remoteness.

Apply

:"

this description to the mind; and what province of it can be intended, but that which is the most external, and which borders most closely upon the corporeal sensations, -- that, whose feelings are the

"When we most gross, and whose perceptions the most obscure?
say obscure, we mean, compared with those which partake of the light of true wisdom: To itself they may appear very lucid:
doubtless, appears the obscurity of night to the owl, whose organs as,

 -- 

of vision cannot bear the brightness of day.

Now suppose the degree of intellect hence resulting to exercise itself upon the subject of religion, and, with a general acknowledgment of its reality, to undertake the definition of its nature: "What
Would it not,
sort of a theological system would be the result?
while it accepted the most general truths of religion, understand them in the most superficial manner, and, while it adhered to the form, neglect the substance, -- while it was occupied about the body,
disregard the soul? We will take two or three examples.

It is a most general truth of religion, that God is to be worshiped: would not Gog, (allow, if you please, this term to stand as an expression, like an algebraic sign, of the principle which we have defined; and let us designate by this name the man whose leading character is formed by that principle: -- would not Gog)

reduce his worship to mere external observances, regardless of the inward feelings which alone render external worship acceptable to the Divine Nature?
It is, again, a still more general truth of religion, that there is a God: would not Gog regard his Deity as a being of like passions with himself; good humoured when pleased, revengeful when offended; a compound of good and bad
If Gog passions, and capricious in the indulgence of them both?
were a Jew, and expected the coming of a Messiah, as the Redeemer of Israel; would he not look for a mighty conqueror, who should deliver the nation from a foreign yoke, and restore in greater splendour than ever the kingdom of David; without admitting the thought of a spiritual redemption by him, or being willing to
If Gog were a believe that his kingdom is not of this world?
Christian, and believed that the Messiah had come to institute a new religion; would he not be disposed to entertain the idea, that the Saviour is nothing more than a man, not differing from other men in nature, though appointed to a high office by God? Whether
Jew or Christian, would he not, at the idea of a miraculous conception, exclaim, with Mary, before she was fully instructed by the angel, "How shall this be?"* -- without crediting the statement of the fact, as she did, and so acquiring an interest in the divinely inspired declaration, "Blessed is she that believed?"f And would he not, with the Jews, on hearing the assertion from the lips of
Jesus, "I and my Father are One$," "take up stones to stone
;" as far, at least, as that can be done by hard, contradicting him §
speeches, -- by contending that such words are not to be under-

stood in a strict and proper sense, or in any sense which will not include in the affirmation all good men?
To put a final case: If
Gog were a believer in the Scriptures generally, and lived in a philosophic age; would he not reduce the scale of their inspiration to as low a standard as is consistent with any belief that they contain, in any manner, a revelation from God?
Would lie not regard them, chiefly, as merely human compositions, and confine the subjects of them, as far as possible, to natural occurrences?
from which, also, he would gladly exclude any divine interposition,
resolving even the miracles, wherever he could find a pretence, into
Thus, would he not adhere,
the operation of natural causes.
mainly, to "the letter which killeth", and shut out altogether "the
In short, in every thing connected with spirit which giveth life?"
religious faith and worship, would not Gog choose that which is low and grovelling, external and superficial, and reject that which
Would he not is elevated and soaring, internal and profuimd?
"fill his belly with the husks that the swine do eat||," and, with the swine, "trample the pearls under his feet?"*J Nor would any part of this character be incompatible with great attainments in erudition: since it is well known that the finer powers of the mind are not unfrequently buried under the dust of learning; and that there is, in the efforts of literature, the bathos as well as the
The poet did not go out of nature when he described his sublime.

king of the dunces as

* Luke i. 34.

f Yer. 45.
|| Luke xv. 16.

J John x. 30.

% Matt. vii. 6.

§ Ver. 31.


"Sinking from thought to thought: a vast profound !"

Sucli then being the character of mind represented by Gog and
Magog, and such the influence which its preponderance would have upon religion, how easy is it to see that the predictions by
Ezekiel and the Eevelator, of invasions by them of the land of
Israel, must refer to the efforts of such a principle, and of those who are in it, to degrade religion, in faith and worship, into a conYea, is it not also intimated, from formity with the above ideas !

the partial and temporary success spoken of as attending the enterprise of the invaders, that, for a time, such ideas of religion would be extremely prevalent, and would be urged with a confidence by which many would be seduced?
of the predictions: in this sense, then, have they ever been ac-

This is clearly the spiritual sense complished?

Most evidently, the prophecy of Ezekiel was accomplished among the Jews about the time of the Lord's appearance in the
In the doctrine and practice of the Pharisees, we behold flesh.

that complete separation of every thing that is external in religion from all that is internal, and that destruction of the latter by the former, of which Gog, when he appears in the character of an inThe church among the
Jews, was, indeed, always of an external character, consisting chiefly in outward rites of which the true import was not discerned vader of Israel, is the appropriate type.

yet, doubtless, while that church remained unperverted, the in-

ternal things of which their rituals were types, were obscurely felt among them, though not clearly perceived: though unknown, they were not denied: but when elaborate systems of doctrines and precepts were invented, as was done by the Pharisees, the object of which was to persuade the people that they became holy by an attention to external observances alone, then was the internal essence of religion entirely destroyed by its outward appearances,
and Gog indeed "came up against Israel, as a cloud, to cover the
Accordingly, we find, that the reproofs which the Lord land."*
Jesus Christ addressed to the Jews, chiefly ran upon this separation of the forms of religion from its vital principles, and upon the
" He answered and said suffocation by the former of the latter.
unto them, Well hath Esaias prophesied of you, hypocrites; as it is written, This people honoureth me with their lips, but their
* Ezek. xxviii 16.


heart is far from me. -- Full well ye reject the commandment of
God, that ye may keep your own tradition:
Honour thy father and thy mother j -- but ye say, If a man shall for Moses said,


say to his father or his mother, It is Corban, that is to say, a gift
[consecrated to God] by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; he shall be free; and ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother; making the Word of God of none effect through your tradition which ye have delivered: and many such
So the awful denunciations against the like things ye do."*
scribes and Pharisees in the twenty-third chapter of Matthew, all turn upon the same point, -- the destruction of the internal essence of religion by substituting its externals in its place: "Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites !
for ye devour widows'
" Woe unto you,
houses, and for a pretence make long prayers:"
ye blind guides, which say, whosoever shall swear by the temple,
it is nothing; but whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple,
he is a debtor;" "Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites for ye pay tythes of mint, and anise, and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy and faith:"
" Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites ! for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are

So, all the other marks of the chafull of extortion and excess."f racter which we have above defined as that of Gog, as connected with religion, were exemplified in these perverters of religion. Nor did their notion that the Scriptures were replete with mysteries,
at all contradict the gross ideas of the Word of God which they who are represented by Gog would entertain.
They took this general belief from those who had a traditionary knowledge of the fact: but the mysteries they pretended to find in the law, were of any but a spiritual nature: they consisted of the most idle puerilities, all calculated to flatter their own pride; such as, instead of fulfilling the late, in the sense which, in our second Lecture, we shewed to belong to that phrase, -- that is, filling it with heavenly ideas relating to the love of God and man, -- emptied it of every thing of such a character, and made even the most express injunctions of its letter compatible with habits the most selfish and profane.

If then Gog, or Gog and Magog, represent a character and stafp

* Mark vii. 6 to 13.

f Ver 14, 16, 23, 25.




of mind of the most gross and external description; if the invasion by them of the land of Israel typifies the introduction of persuasions originating in such a state of mind into every thing connected with religion, till the church is entirely overrun, and all its doctrines, with all its worship, acquire an external character, entirely separated from, and in opposition to, the internal qualities without which they are nothing; and if the Lord Jesus Christ declares that such was the state of the church among the Jews when he was on earth: -- then had the prophecy of Ezekiel upon the subject at that
But the instruction which it conveys time received its fulfilment.
is not thereby rendered obsolete, as would be the case if it related to merely natural events, and had been fufilled by an invasion of hostile armies: but it will for ever continue to teach mankind, what is the proper character of the gross conceptions of the natural man, when not rectified by the influence of the spiritual; and what are the deplorable consequences, when man yields to the suggestions of the most external part of his mental constitution alone, and
Of draws thence his conclusions on the subject of religion.
this, in the case of individuals, there is danger at all times. We all must be sensible, that there is in our constitution the principle of which Gog and -Magog are the symbols, -- a principle by which we first become conscious of impressions that come from without,
and which, if not submitted to the controul of an enlightened intel-

real but sense and nature;

lectual faculty, might even lead to the persuasion that nothing is it would therefore be well if we would profit by the warning which this prophecy affords, and take care how we suffer such a principle to lift itself out of its place.
is in it a tendency to usurpation.
Sense is ever disposed to exalt herself above Eeason, and falsely to arrogate her name: and then
Eeligion is either banished altogether, or compelled to assume a disguise that hides her beauty, and destroys her benefits.

There

In the last extreme, atheism is the result.

But if the prophecy by Ezekiel of the invasion of Gog and Magog received its general fulfilment in the state of the Jewish Church at the time of the Lord's appealing in the world, we see that the parallel prediction of John must refer to a different event in the spiritual history of mankind, and cannot, as Bishop Lowth supposes,
mean exactly the same: which supposition degrades, besides, the
Divine Word, with the imputation of repetition and tautology.


The general signification of Gog and Magog, and of their invasion of the land of the saints, must be, indeed, the same as before; bnt two distinct irruptions of the principle are certainly intended: if then the first of them took place in the last perversion of the
Israelitish dispensation, when are we to look for the second?

Are corruptions of this deplorable kind, ever to overtake the profession of Christianity? Alarming as is the thought, it seems impossible to doubt that this is pointed-to in the prediction of the Kevelation.
If we admit the communication to proceed from the Divine Prescience, we must expect such an event.
Again will men look at religion under the influence of the most external province of the mind: again will they separate the conclusions which this suggests,
from the more enlightened sentiments which would be dictated by the internal man: and the consequence again will be, that, while some will glory in the avowal of the most audacious infidelity, ex-

tended even to the self-worship of atheism, a greater number, not venturing to deny religion altogether, will lower down its duties and its doctrines to an agreement with the suggestions of the lowest part of their nature; that, deeming the vividness with which they conceive their sentiments to be a certain mark of their truth,

(though it is only a consequence of the proximity of the province of the mind in which such persons think, to the senses of the body,)
and shutting out the admission of any light from above, even till us too far.

they doubt the reality of every thing of a spiritual nature, they will rush eagerly to battle against those who affirm that reality, strong
But when will in the conceit that their arguments are invincible.
Have any symptoms of its this deplorable visitation take place?
commencement yet appeared?
These are questions of deep concernment to every Christian; but to attempt their solution would carry
The consideration of them must be left to those who sufficiently interested in the subject to pursue it farther:
feel and the way to decide them will be, to reflect maturely on the nature of the principle of which Gog and Magog are types, and of its natural influence, when made the arbiter of religious sentiment and then to examine what marks of this influence are discernible in the opinions and controversies which make a noise in the Christian world, and which divide the minds of men on the subject of religion.

(6.) We have pursued to some extent the ideas suggested by



the prophecies respecting Gog and Magog, because, as observed above respecting all such prophecies as do not admit of an outward accomplishment, they are so well adapted to lead to a just conception of the nature of the Prophetic "Word in general; and because these predictions, in particular, eminently tend to illustrate that great portion of the Prophetic Word, which seems to
If some of treat, in its letter, of particular countries and nations.
the predictions of this kind are such as never could have been init is evident that they must tended to receive a literal fulfilment;
contain a spiritual sense, and that, when they were given, a spiritual fulfilment was the only one contemplated by their Divine
Author: and if the Scriptures are written upon a uniform orderly plan, --  as they must be, if they are inspired, by a God of order, -- 
then must a spiritual fulfilment of divine prophecy have been that which was chiefly intended, in every part of it; although some parts of it were such as admitted, and received, a general outward,

accomplishment likewise.

If there are any parts of it, which,

though they all contain a double sense, were not designed to have a double fulfilment; -- in which sense, be it asked, is their fulfilment naturally to be looked for, -- in that which is primary, or in

If the spiritual accomplishment, "though that which is secondary?
not ike first, [as to time], was the principal, thing in the prophet's view;" and yet the prediction was of such a nature, that, whatever the prophet might have understood by it, it only admitted of a fulfil-

ment in one sense; --  which must have been the fulfilment regarded
The question admits of but one by the Inspirer of the prophet?
answer. And it is equally evident, that if the prophecies have a spiritual sense any where, and this is the principal sense, they
But the literal sense being thus a mere must have it every where.
vehicle for the conveyance of the spiritual, may either be outwardly fulfilled or not, as the plans of Providence may render expedient.
To communicate the spiritual sense, the literal sense is indispensable: but to the spiritual fulfilment, the literal fulfilment is enWhen, also, an outward accomplishment of tirely unnecessary.

prophecy, affecting the affairs of nations, takes place, it is never,
as was noticed above, so exact, as not to leave room for much variety of opinion regarding the application of many particulars of the prediction; thus pointing to a spiritual fulfilment, as that to which alone the terms of the prophecy can be unobjectionably applied.
But these prophecies respecting Gog and Magog, are eminently calculated to illustrate the nature of that great portion of the Prophetic Word, which seems to treat, in its letter, of particular counGog and Magog, according to the literal idea,
tries and nations.
evidently denote very remote countries and nations: the prophecies relating to them are such as never have been outwardly accomplished, and never can be: and if so, then a spiritual fulfilment
But how are we to discover the must alone have been intended.
All ideas respecting it must nature of this spiritual fulfilment?
be merely conjectural and arbitrary, unless we have a certain Rule to guide our conclusions: and what principle in the nature of things can be discovered, capable of affording such a Eule, but the
Analogy immutably established between natural things and spiritual, whereby they mutually answer to each other? An obvious analogy, we have seen, exists, between the relations of Mind and the relations of Place: each has its provinces: and it is not at all difficult to conceive, how the one may be represented by the other.
We have seen also, that whatever may be the difficulty of determining what provinces or characters of mind are implied by some of the countries and nations mentioned in the Scriptures, this does not extend to the signification of Gog and Magog.
countries and nations most remote from the land of Israel, must denote the most external province and character that can belong
This, then, may be assumed as certain.
to the human mind.
But if it is evident that a certain province or character of mind is meant by Gog and Magog, it cannot be doubted, that some certain province or character of mind is equally symbolized by every other
If we admit country and nation mentioned in the sacred pages.
the premises, the conclusion is unavoidable; unless we would treat the Word of God as a chaos of confusion, -- a mass of isolated

These, as the discordances, in which no conclusion can be drawn from one fact to another, let the parallelism between them be ever so complete.

(7.) Now if it be true that the invasion of Israel by Gog, is a prophetic description of the state of rebgion among the Jews at the time of the appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ, it will not seem strange to infer, that the extraordinary passage quoted at the beginning of this section, in which the fowls of the air and the beasts of the field are invited to a great feast or sacrifice prepared for them by the Lord, refers to the abundant mercies consequent upon the Lord's coming in the flesh, and dispensed to all who were willing to accept them;
and which were calculated to nourish, and restore to its right order, every faculty and power of the human mind. By his coming, the Lord put an end to the
Israelitish dispensation, which at best was of a very external character, only "having a shadow of good things to come*;" and,
in its stead, "brought life and immortality to light through the gospel f:" "for the law was given by Moses; but grace and truth
The spiritual graces which he came to came by Jesus Christ." %
dispense, are frequently compared by him to food and drink, on account of the analogy noticed in our last Lecture between natural food and spiritual. When the prodigal returned repentant, his father killed for him the fatted calf. § And when the Lord pro-
;"
poses the parable of "a certain man who made a great supper ||
or of a dinner given by a certain king on account of the marriage of his son, and who says on the occasion, "My oxen and my fatlings are killed^";" he evidently describes the heavenly gifts wdrich were offered to man, for the nourishment of his soul, in consequence of his coming into the world.
(It is needless to say, that the guests who were invited, and wrho refused to come, were the
Jews, who possessed the invitations of the Lord in his Word; and that they who were brought in from the highways and hedges,
without previous invitation, were the Gentiles, to whom the true
God was previously unknown.)
If then the Lord Jesus Christ himself, thus describes the blessings presented to man by his gospel under the appropriate emblem of a feast; how natural is the conclusion, that the same blessings are indicated by Ezekiel,

in the stronger figures belonging to the prophetic style, when, in the conclusion of his prophecy respecting Gog, which refers to the state of the Jewish church at the time of the Lord's advent, he speaks of a great feast prepared for the fowls of the air and the
Let us then briefly notice, how the particulars beasts of the field !
of this general explanation may be developed by the Science of
Analogies.

We have seen in our last Lecture, that the human mind is composed, in general, of two great faculties, called the will and the understanding; and that the will is the seat of every thing be-

* Heb. x. 1.

§ Luke xv. 23.

t 2 Tim. i. 10.
|| Ch. xiv. 16.

% John i. 17.

% Matt. xxii. 4.
longing to love or affection, and the understanding of every thing belonging to perception and thought: so that the will may in fact be considered as a congeries of innumerable affections, and the understanding as a congeries of innumerable thoughts. Now the
Holy Scriptures, being dictated by Him "who knoweth our frame*," continually regard man as composed of these two general principles, and address him in reference to them both.
Thus nothing is more common in Scripture than to speak of "the fowls of the air and the beasts of the field;" the reason is, because there is an analogy between the winged part of the animal creation, and the intellectual powers of the mind; and between the part of the animal creation constituted by the mammalia, and the affectuous

That beasts in general are apt symbols of powers of the mind.
the affections, is very evident, and was in some measure shewn in our last Lecture: and birds in general, not less aptly, are types of the thoughts; as will appear to him who contemplates their peculiar properties; such as their capacity of soaring in the air, and the remarkable manner in which they are affected by the light,
being rendered lively by its presence, dull by its partial absence,
and going to sleep on the approach of darkness, even when the darkness comes on at an unusual time, -- as when it has been caused by an eclipse not long after sunrise. When therefore the
Lord says to the prophet, in the passage we are considering,
" Speak unto every feathered fowl, [or, to the fowl of every wing,]
and to every beast of the field j" -- it is not the fowls and beasts who are addressed, (for who could suppose that Jehovah would literally address these? less absurd woidd be the story of St.
Anthony's sermon to the fishes:) but it is man in general who is appealed to, considered as to the general faculties of his mental constitution, -- as to all the powers of his mind which are capable
As, also, there is an immense of being benefited by divine gifts.
variety in the human race, every man being distinguished from others, not less by his peculiar mode of thinking and feeling than by the peculiar lineaments of his countenance; and as, in some,
the understanding is more active than the affections, and, in others,
the affections are more active than the intellect: therefore those whose peculiar character belongs to the former description, under any possible modification of it, are addressed as the birds of every
* Ps. ciil 14.


wing, and those whose character belongs to the latter description,
with the same variety, are included in the address to every beast of the field.

Now as the human mind in the aggregate consists of two general faculties, which are the will and the understanding; so are there two general divine gifts by which these are to be nourished
These then are what are meant,
which are, goodness and truth.
when, on the birds and beasts being commanded to assemble themselves together to a great sacrifice which should be sacrificed for them by the Lord, it is said, "that ye may eat flesh and drink blood"; there being, as noticed in our last Lecture, an exact ana-

logy between flesh and blood, as the chief constituents of animal bodies, and goodness and truth, or love and wisdom, these being,
But as in their origin, the prime essentials of the Divine Nature.
the mind of man, both as to will and intellect, consists of faculties of various orders and degrees; so also are there various orders and degrees of the goodness and truth imparted for their nourishment and nothing can be conceived, which becomes an object of feeling and perception, which does not refer, in some way, to the general
The various orders and degrees, then, of goodness and truth, which would be bestowed in abundance, under the dispensation of the principle of goodness, or to the general principle of truth.

lated in the following verses.

gospel, for the spiritual nourishment of man, and for his edification in all heavenly graces, are represented by the various kinds of beings whose flesh and blood should be presented for food, as re-
" Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams,
of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks, all of them fatlings of Bashan."
The mighty, here, are they who prevail in spiritual combats, which are such as are carried on internally against the corruptions of the heart and mind; or, more abstractedly, they are those principles of heavenly confidence which give power in those combats; and to eat the flesh of the mighty, is to enjoy the good which is procured by victory in such conflicts.
The princes of the earth are the leading and primary truths of the church, on which the subordinate ones depend; and to drink their blood is to have these fixed in the
Earns and lambs are emblems of such good affections as mind.
belong to the internal man, relating, chiefly, to love to God and our neighbour; and goats and bullocks are corresponding prin-

8


ciples in the external man: the bullocks are said to be fatlings of
Bashan, to express the excellence of the animals, and, by analogy,
To imply the profusion of the principle which they represent.
with which these blessings should be imparted, it is added, "And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye be drunken,
of my sacrifice, which I have sacrificed for you:" fat is here mentioned instead of flesh, as being a symbol of goodness still
The conclusion of the promise is the more genuine and excellent.
most extraordinary part of all: "Thus ye shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men, and with aD men
If there be any, who are so disof war, saith the Lord God."
posed to adhere to the literal sense of the prophecy, as to conclude that "Gog and all his multitude" really mean an immense invading army, and to infer that the convocation of the fowls and beasts to
" eat flesh and drink blood", is a figurative mode of describing the excess of the slaughter, by adverting to the numbers of birds and beasts which would be drawn together by the scent of the carcases;
and who can bring themselves to think it not unworthy of "the
Lord Jehovah "to make such an address to mere animals of prey these words must destroy the illusion: for though some animals of prey would eagerly devour dead horses,, they would not devour the chariots which they drew; and yet, according to the terms of the
Thus prediction, the chariots, also, are to form part of the feast.

it is, that, throughout the Scriptures, expressions are frequently thrown in, which cannot at all be applied to the subjects which appear to be treated of in the letter; as if Divine Wisdom introduced them on purpose to prevent the attention from resting in the letter, and to awaken it to the spirit which dwells within.
All the expressions used in Scripture relating to ways and to journeys, and to the methods by which man assists his progress in
In meditation,
his journeys, refer to the exercise of the thoughts.
every one is conscious of something passing in his mind, analogous to locomotion. On account of the use of the horse in assisting man in his progress from place to place, he was regarded in ancient times, as noticed in our last Lecture, as a symbol of man's understanding, or apprehension, of truths or of what he regards as truth; and to ride on horseback, in the symbolic style of writing,
was understood to mean, to acquire intelligence, or to commuNearly related nicate instruction, by the exercise of the faculty.


in signification to the horse, on which a man rides, must be a chariot, drawn by horses, in which he rides: thus, as the one expresses, in the language of analogy, the understanding or appre-

hension of truth, so does the other the doctrine of truth, or those sentiments respecting truth which the mind assumes as certain,
and employs to assist its further progress. Now as birds and beasts may feed on horses, so is the human mind nurtured in spiritual graces by the right understanding of truth: and though no bird or beast can feed on chariots, yet may the human mind be fed with the doctrine of truth: and this is what is meant when the
Lord says by the prophet, "Ye shall be filled at my table with
" Mighty men, and all men of war", are horses and chariots."
added, to express such firm convictions of the truth, grounded in love, in regard to divine subjects, as give a man power over the corruptions of his own heart and mind, as well as over all suggestions in favour of evil and error that may come from without, and which enable him, in every trial, to come off a conqueror.

Now, though it would require a very extensive discussion, fully to prove that the several particulars of this remarkable prophecy bear the exact signification which we have offered; yet that they must bear some such signification, is, I think, abundantly evident.
The spiritual analogy of some of the principal symbols, is obvious that of the others will also appear on reflection: and if the ground,
in analogy, of the signification assigned to any of the natural images, should not be discerned by every one, yet every one who will carefully examine the other passages in the Word of God where they are mentioned, may ascertain that they always bear some such meaning.
It would require a work on a different plan from that of these Lectures, fully to demonstrate, by the Science of
Analogies, and by the manner in which natural images are used in all that we the Scriptures, the meaning of each specific symbol:
undertake to prove, is, that the general principle exists; that there is in reality a definite analogy between natural things and spiritual,
whereby the former answer to, and form expressive symbols of, the latter; and that this analogy is observed in the Holy Word.
In applying the general rule to particular cases, we shall be satisfied if our interpretations are accepted as probable.
In the more important and more general analogies, we hope that this probability will be found very strong: in subordinate and respectively unim-


portant particulars, a lower degree of probability will be sufficient for our purpose. A multitude of probabilities is admitted to constitute a moral certainty: and if it shall appear, in numerous instances, that the spiritual signification which we assign to various natural symbols is probably the true one, every impartial mind will allow it to be morally certain, that some spiritual signification
Thus the general principle will be does belong to those symbols.

established, whether our explanations of particulars be all concurred in, or not.

blood, without revoltin

In the passage at present before us, it is impossible to conceive of Jehovah himself as calling the birds and beasts to a sacrifice prepared for them by him, that they might eat flesh and drink fc£from the ideas suggested by the letter*
and concluding instinctively, that matters very different, and more worthy of Infinite Love and Wisdom, and of the active interferTo regard ence of Deity, must be veiled beneath the expressions.
them as merely forming an emphatic mode of describing a great slaughter by one of its consequences, is still to impute unworthy

If the prophets are to be consisentiments to the Divine Being.
dered merely as poets, and it should be deemed allowable for the poet Ezekiel thus to exidt over the destruction of the enemies of it would be in the highest degree profane for him to his country;
introduce on the occasion the most sacred of the names of God,
and to deliver his invitation to birds and beasts to feed on his slaughtered foes, in the name of "the Lord Jehovah."
But if, as has already been shewn, no invasion by natural enemies can have been intended by any part of the prophecy, then no devouring of their carcases can be referred to by the invitation to the birds and
Besides, the total destruction of "Gog and all his multi-

beasts.

tude" is more explicitly detailed in the former part of the chapter they are not only described as being all dead, but, likewise, as being all buried* : after which to invite the birds and beasts to eat their flesh and drink their blood, would look like an afterthought indeed, not easily compatible with the previous stateEvery thing then leads us to regard this part of the proments.
phecy, as well as the rest, as a prophetic allegory, designed to have a purely spiritual accomplishment, and no other.

But perhaps it may be objected, "Admitting something of a
* Ver. 11 to 15.
spiritual nature to be intended by this invitation to the fowls of every wing and to every beast of the field, still it does not appear how their eating the flesh and drinking the blood of Gog and his army, who evidently are the enemies of the church, or injurious principles in regard to religion, can represent the imparting to men
But it is to be observed, that the of heavenly gifts and graces."
idea of Gog and his army is dismissed with their burial, already recorded, and they are not mentioned any more.
According to the literal sense, indeed, it must be inferred to be their flesh and blood that the fowls and beasts are to eat and drink; but this is not
The feast is merely represented as consequent upon the affirmed.
destruction of Gog: and thus it suggests the important truth,
explicitly affirmed in many parts of Scripture, that all increase of good is in consequence of, and in proportion to, the removal of
Both cannot exist together, either in the church at large or evil.
in the mind of man: the one must be put away, to make room for
The removal then of the evils that destroyed the other to enter.
and perverted all true religion, is described by the destruction of
Gog and his multitude: the reception of the good which can then be imparted, is meant by the feast given in consequence to the
That the flesh and blood which they should eat fowls and beasts.
and drink are not considered as belonging to Gog and his army,
or to any thing that has a bad signification, is evident from their being called the flesh and blood "of rams, of lambs, of goats, and
Goats and bullocks, indeed, as denoting principles of bullocks."
which belong to the external man, which may either be in right order or the contrary, are sometimes mentioned in a bad sense, as well as in a good one: but rams and lambs, as denoting principles which belong to the internal man, -- the apostle's inward man which delights in the law of God*, -- are not subject to this ambiguity of interpretation: they are invariably used as symbols of the purest affections that can adorn the human mind.

Altogether, then, whether the explanation which has been offered be seen, in all the particulars, to be true or not; I trust that the general meaning assigned to the whole will be admitted to be highly probable: -- that the flesh and blood of the various orders of beings mentioned, as forming a sacrifice or feast prepared by Jehovah for the birds of every wing and every beast of the field, are the good-
* Rom. vii. 22.
ness and truth of various orders and degrees, offered by the Lord to all who had any capacities for receiving them, when, at his coming into the world, he put an end to the perversion of religion then prevalent among the Jews, in consequence of their looking at divine things under the influence of the most external part of their nature: or, more briefly.
That this prophetic feast denotes the profusion of heavenly gifts, resulting from the introduction of the spiritual and pure dispensation of the Gospel, in lieu of the carnal and corrupted dispensation of the Law.

2. The next prophecy that we select for consideration, is that of the Lord Jesus Christ, comprised in the twenty-fourth and twentyfifth chapters of Matthew; more particularly that part of it which is contained in these words: "Immediately after the tribulation of those days, shall the sun be darkened and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn; and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory."*

(1.) As the passage which we have considered from Ezekiel affords a remarkable instance of that species of divine prediction which admits of no outward fulfilment; so does this whole discourse of the Lord Jesus Christ supply a remarkable instance of that species of prophecy which does admit of such a fulfilment, it being, in fact, of all the predictions of Holy Writ, the most distinguished for the great exactness with which many of its announceIt has been justly obments have been palpably accomplished.

served, of that part of it which extends from the beginning to the twenty-eighth verse of the twenty-fourth chapter, that many of the particulars which it states, so precisely describe the calamities which befel the Jewish nation at and prior to the siege of Jerusalem by
Titus, that it more resembles a history than a prophecy: and as,
nevertheless, it is certain that the prediction was delivered, and the account of it published, before those calamities occurred, an irresis-

tible argument thence arises for the divine inspiration of prophecy,

and for the truth of the Christian religion, which has been ably handled by many of the Christian apologists.

* Ch. sxiv. 29, 30.
Nevertheless, clearly as some parts of this prophecy have coin-

cided with historical events, it is impossible to adapt it to all circumstances of that kind. A great part of it certainly admits of none but a spiritual fulfilment: hence, as the whole of it flows in an uninterrupted and most closely connected series, it seems undeniable that a spiritual fulfilment is that which is chiefly designed throughout, and that, in the words of Bishop Lowth so often cited,
the destruction of Jerusalem, though "the first, was not the principal thing in the `[Divine]` Prophet's view."
Still it is certain, that part of the prophecy had an external accomplishment in the events attending the destruction of Jerusalem: we here then have a striking exemplification of the principle advanced above, -- "that the spiriguage, were typically pictured by such external events; -- that a tual things described in the ulterior sense of the prophetic lan-

spiritual fulfilment was at the same time primarily regarded, and that of this was given, in the corresponding historical circumstances,
a symbolic scenical representation."* On no other principle can those particulars of the prophecy which may be applied to the destruction of Jerusalem, be taken as part of the same series as the other particulars, which do not admit of such an application. And the argument for the divine inspiration of prophecy, and for the truth of the Christian religion, arising from the outward fulfilment,
is hereby carried farther; since, while we obtain a solution, by the
Science of Analogies, of those parts of the prophecy which are inexplicable on the principle of literal interpretation, we obtain, at the same time, for the passages in which a literal interpretation is admissible, a meaning more worthy of a Divine Author, than could be afforded by the most exact description of the future fates of nations; -- a meaning which, while it rests upon the letter as its
Let us see how this will basis, rises and points towards heaven.
appear from a general view of the whole prophecy; exhibiting, first,
the inconsistencies of the common interpretations.

(2.) It is related, in the first verse, that "Jesus went out, and departed from the temple: and his disciples came to him to shew him the buildings of the temple;" and it is added, in the second verse, that "Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things?
verily I say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another which shall not be thrown down."

First, then, let it be

* P. 257.
admitted, that these words apply, in their immediate reference, to the temple at Jerusalem and its destruction, which, as is known from the history of Josephus, was as total as is here implied.

Let,

also, the detailed prediction that follows, through the whole of this and the next chapters, be understood of the events connected with the destruction of Jerusalem and its temple, as far as they can possibly be adapted to those occurrences.

It is allowed, however,

on all hands, that the whole cannot be so adapted: let then the place be pointed out where the new subject commences.
But let this be done in such a manner, as to be consistent with the fact,
that a space of not much less than two thousand years at the least,
was to intervene, between the accomplishment of the latter part of the prophecy and that of the former: for the first part of it is considered to have been fully accomplished about A. D. 70; and the remainder not to be accomplished yet:

it is also to be recol-

lected, that no events belonging to this intervening period are supposed to be treated of in the prophecy, but that, in whatever place the transition is made, it skips at once from the destruction
Of course, with these preof Jerusalem to the end of the world.
mises assumed, every reader will expect to perceive some well defined mark of so great an hiatus. How will this expectation be
So far from discovering any thing like it, no person answered?
can read the two chapters, and draw his inference from their contents alone, without concluding, that the events announced are to follow each other in succession, unbroken by any wide interruption
Accordingly, though commentators are now generally whatever.
agreed that the hiatus must exist, they are by no means unanimous in fixing its situation.

As before observed, the circumstances foretold as far as the twenty-eighth verse of the twenty-fourth chapter, may, by having recourse, here and there, to figure, be applied to the calamities which befel the Jewish nation: what follows, respecting the coming of the Son of man in the clouds of heaven, and his sending his angels with a great sound of a trumpet to gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other, does not, with equal convenience, admit this application: wherefore many eminent writers consider the prophecies relating to the Jews to terminate with the twenty-eighth verse, and all that follows to belong to the greater events commonly designated as the second


Uncoming of the Lord, and the general judgment on the world.
fortunately, however, let both parts of the chapter denote what they may, they are connected together by the binding word "im-
"Immediately after the tribulation of those days,
mediately:"
shall the sun be darkened", &c -- "and then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven."
Extreme violence, therefore, is done to the words, by those who thrust in, between the tribulation previously described, and this immediate appearing of the Son of man, an interval of two thousand years ! On this account, other eminent writers understand the appearing of the Son of man, and all the rest of the chapter, to be merely added in amplification of the previous subject; affirming, however, that "Jesus Christ intended that his disciples should consider the judgment he was going to inflict on the Jewish nation, as a forerunner and emblem of that universal judgment he is to exercise at the last day;"
wherefore, they add, "he gives in the twenty-fifth chapter a description of the last judgment*:" for which reasons, they place the grand hiatus between the two chapters.

But, unhappily, a particle, the nature of which is to draw things into such close con-

also occurs.

nexion as admits of nothing being interposed between them, here
The Divine Prophet concludes the twenty-fourth chapter with describing the reward which the faithful servant, and the punishment which the unfaithful, shall receive at his coming and he commences the twenty-fifth chapter thus: "Tlien shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins." Who cannot see that the parable of the ten virgins, "five of whom were wise, and five were foolish", is a continuation and further illustration of the subject introduced by the parable of the faithful and wicked ser-

vant; -- that both relate to the same series of events, and leave no room for supposing an interval of two thousand years between the one and the other? And even if the subjects were not so obviously connected, what propriety would there be in passing from one event to another so distant, by such a copulative as then, -- 

word that always denotes either identity of time, or immediate succession?

A third modification of the same general plan of interpretation has therefore been proposed by Dr. Doddridge. He adheres to the system of the hiatus, but he seems to have felt more strongly

* Beausobre and L'Enfant's Note on Matt. xxv. 1.

8*


than some, the difficulties with which it is attended: wherefore, in hopes to avoid them, he steers a middle course between the two
Let us see, then, what degree of proba-

theories already noticed.

bility he has been able to give to the scheme.

He paraphrases the twenty-ninth and thirtieth verses thus
" Immediately after the affliction of those days which I have now been describing, the sun shall as it were he darkened, and the moon shall not seem to give her usual light; and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens, all the mighty machines and strong movements above, shall be shaken and broken to pieces that is, according to the sublimity of that prophetic language to which you have been accustomed, the whole civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the nation shall not only be shocked, but totally dissolved. And then shall there evidently appear such a remarkable hand of providence in avenging my quarrel upon this sinful people, that it shall be like the sign of the Son of man in heaven at the last day; and all the tribes of the land shall then mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming as it were in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory; for that celestial army which shall appear in the air marshalled round the city, shall be a sure token to them that the angels of God, and the great Lord of those heavenly hosts, are set as it were in array against them." Upon this paraphrase I shall only observe, that if the fiery appearances in the sky mentioned by Josephus, and which seem to have been similar to those observed during the civil wars in England, and at various other places and times, are really alluded-to in the prophecy, it must be in the former part of it. Where Matthew merely says, that there should be "famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places* ;" Luke amplifies thus: "And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences and fearful sights and great wonders shall there be from heaven ."f
This will agree with Josephus: for that historian describes the celestial phenomena as having been seen before the siege and capture of Jerusalem, and as portending those events J; wherefore it is violating the facts to represent these as being what are foretold as the appearing of the Son of man and his coming into the clouds of heaven, "after the tribulation of those days:" beside being a mean application of a most majestic prediction. However, we have

* Ch. xxiv. 7.

f Ch. xxi. 11.

% Jewish War, B. vi. Ch. 5, § 3.


only introduced this popular writer's paraphrase, for the sake of his note upon it. On the words, Immediately after the tribulation of those days, he remarks thus: "Archbishop Tillotson, and Brennius,
with many other learned interpreters, imagine, that our Lord here makes the transition from the destruction of Jerusalem, which had been the subject of his discourse thus far, to the general judgment but I think, as it would be very harsh to suppose all the sufferings of the Jewish nation, in all ages, to be called the tribulation of those days" [what occasion, by the by, for supposing the sufferings of the Jewish nation in all ages to be treated of at all?] "so it would, on the other hand, be equally so to say, that the general judgment, which probably will not commence till at least a thousand years after their restoration, will happen immediately after their sufferings; nor can I find any one instance in which evdews '[immeWhat is said below diately] is used in such a strange latitude.
(in Matt. xxiv. 34, Mark xiii. 30, and Luke xxi. 32,) seems also
I am an insuperable objection against such an interpretation.

obliged therefore to explain this section as in the paraphrase though I acknowledge many of the figures used may with more literal propriety be applied to the last day, to which there may be
Moved by these a remote though not an immediate reference."
considerations, this worthy divine, though he sees some difficulties struction of Jerusalem.

in the way, determines to apply the prophecy, thus far, to the deBut when he comes to the thirty-sixth verse, though the series continues to flow without the least sign of interruption, he paraphrases the words, "But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only", in reference to the "final sentence" o£ all mankind; and adds this note: "I cannot agree with Dr. Clarke in referring this verse to the destruction of Jerusalem, the particular day of which was not a matter of great importance; and as for the season of it,
I see not how it could properly be said to be entirely unknown,
after such an express declaration that it should be in that generation. -- It seems therefore much fitter, with Dr. Whitby (after
Grotius,) to explain it of the last day, when heaven and earth shall
Well then, the Doctor has now taken the leap.
pass away",
The simple connective "but" has carried him over an interval, of not less, according to his computation, than three thousand years.
No sooner however has he taken this leap, than he deems it necessary to jump back again. He seems to apply the very next verses to the subject just dismissed: but in a note on the fortieth and forty-first verses, "Then shall two be in the field", &c. he explicitly says, that though these words "may allusively be accommodated to the day of'judgment, yet he doubts not they originally refer to the destruction of Jerusalem, to which alone they are properly applicable." He now, however, determines to fly for the last time across the gulph: so, he adds, "I humbly conceive that the grand transition, about which commentators are so much divided, and so generally mistaken, is made precisely after these two verses."
Let the reader then examine whether he can here find the marks of
" the grand transition", so conspicuous to Dr. Doddridge: or whether he will not rather find that the discourse proceeds in the same unbroken series, making no transition but from the announcement of awful facts, to the deducing from them of weighty
Thus Dr. Doddridge's well-meant attempt to relieve admonitions.

the hiatus scheme of its difficulties, only issues in a demonstration that the difficulties are insuperable.

Now what unprejudiced mind can resolve to maintain an hypothesis thus incumbered? When it is so evident that the whole prophecy is so connected, that the events really contemplated by its
Divine Author must flow in uninterrupted succession; who can perseveringly determine to break that succession, by supposing a chasm in it, of two, three, or, perhaps, ten thousand years? How much more natural and easy a solution of the whole is obtained,
when a series of occurrences relating to the spiritual state of man,
is regarded as the principal subject in the mind of the Divine
Speaker; when the whole prophecy is considered as describing the vicissitudes of religion in the world, and the states of mankind in regard to religion, from the time when the predictions were uttered till the completion of all prophecy; and when the circumstances attending the destruction of Jerusalem, and of the Jews as a nation,

so far as they are referred to in the external sense of the words, are viewed as types of that part of the series which extends to the consummation of "the mystery of iniquity*," and which is antecedent to the "bringing in of everlasting righteousness !"f

If it should here be asked, Why was not the sequel of the prophecy also given in terms that would have admitted of an accom-

* 2 Thess. ii. 7.

f Dan. ix. 24,
modation to historical events? it may be answered, Because this was impossible, consistently with the plans of Providence, and the state of mankind, to which the plans of Providence are always
If the consummation of "the mystery of iniquity" might adapted.
be appropriately prefigured by the destruction of Jerusalem, the
" bringing in of everlasting righteousness" must, if the same style of prophecy were continued, be imaged by the restoration and eternal prosperity of Jerusalem: but as such restoration was inconsistent with the plans of Providence, to have seemed to predict it in connexion, with announcements actually referring in their lowest sense to historical events, would have led to unfounded expectations.

Although, then, in the spiritual sense, the whole of the prophecy flows on in one unbroken series, and the events, as they regard the spiritual state of mankind, proceed in uninterrupted succession, that part of them which did not admit of being typically acted on the external theatre of human affairs, is described by images of a totally different character from the former.
In the

Revelation, however, all the symbols of which are such as do not admit of a literal interpretation, the concluding imagery forms a proper sequel to that used in the former part of the prophecy before us; for while the Lord Jesus Christ describes the corrup-

tions of his religion under the type of the calamities ending in the destruction of Jerusalem, the Apocalyptic divine depicts its perfect restoration, by the symbol of a "new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven."*

This divine book, the Revelation of John, furnishes, also, other decisive evidence, that no part of the prophecies that proceeded from the immediate lips of the Lord Jesus Christ terminated in the destruction of Jerusalem; but that the circumstances connected with that event are merely noticed, as symbolizing events of far
The Revelation was not written, as is adhigher importance.
mitted by most of the critics, till at least twenty years after Jerusalem had been overthrown; and yet, in that book, many of the same prophetic symbols are employed, in describing the latter fortunes of the Christian Church, as are used by the Lord Jesus
Christ in the prophecy under consideration. We there read of
" the temple of God, and the altar;" of "the court which is without the temple", and "the holy city;" as being then to be trodden
* Rev. xxi. 2.
under foot by the gentiles*, just as if the overturning of Jerusalem by the Romans was yet to be performed. We read also of the sun becoming black, and the moon being turned into blood, and the stars of heaven falling to the earth f, just as in the passage already cited from Matthew.
It is likewise said of the Lord Jesus Christ,
as in the Gospels, "Behold, he cometh with clouds !"| and again,
John says, "I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man." § And at the conclusion of the book we read, "He which testifieth these things saith,
Surely I come quickly, Amen:" to which the -church answers,
" Even so, come Lord Jesus." ||
Not to mention numerous other
All which plainly evince, that when the same things coincidences.
are stated in this prophecy of Jesus Christ, they had a spiritual meaning, and did not receive a final fulfilment in the destruction of Jerusalem.

The inference from all this is too obvious not to have been seen by some intelligent writers: and we shall not, I apprehend, much err, if we conclude this branch of our inquiry in the words of the candid and learned Jortin: "The destruction of Jerusalem, and that second coming of the Son of man to take vengeance on his foes, may perhaps pre-figure the destruction of Antichristian tyranny, and the manifestation of Christ, that is, of his power and spirit; and then may commence a better and happier era, and such a renovation, as may be called e new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.' "^f

(3.) What then must be the specific nature of that "renovation",
which this intelligent author saw must be signified by the coming of the Son of man, in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory? arid what light do the terms of the prediction afford, respecting the means by which it is to be brought about?

We need not stop to explain the words by which this prediction is introduced: "Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light,
and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken:" for these have been sufficiently explained in the remarks we made above, when noticing Sir Isaac Newton's

Ch. xi. 1, 2.

f Ch. vi. 12, 13.

J Ch. L 7.

§ Ch. xiv. 14.

Ch. xxii. 20.

H Jortin'3 Remarks on Ecclesiastical History, vol. i. p. 151, Ed. 1805.
But the circumstances,
manner of interpreting these phrases.*
that he who is to come is called the Son of man, and that the mode of his coming is announced to be in the clouds of heaven; are so remarkable, and so significant, as to demand a particular consi-

deration.

(4.) Whatever may be meant by the Lord's prophecies respecting his second advent, and whatever the time at which it was to it is now generally acknowledged, that a personal take place;
coming in the ethereal clouds cannot be intended. We have seen how Dr. Doddridge, with some of the other writers who apply this part of the prophecy to the destruction of Jerusalem, understands it: and we have noticed what violence is done to the facts of history by such an application. The time and manner of the meteoric appearance mentioned by Josephus, to which they refer this predicAfter relating some remarkable circum-

tion, were the following.

stances which occurred at the feast of unleavened bread, not only prior to the destruction of the city, but "before the Jews' rebellion,
and before those commotions that preceded the war "that author states, that "a few days after that feast, -- before sun-setting, cha-

riots and troops of soldiers in their armour were seen running about among the clouds, and surrounding of cities."f Now, whether this was the same sort of electric phenomenon as has been frequently seen elsewhere, and has suggested to many observers the idea of armed men combating in the clouds; or whether, as some wish to understand it, it was a real miracle; having taken place several years before the capture of Jerusalem, it cannot, as noticed above, have been what was meant by the sign of the Son of man in heaven, which was not to appear till after that event: and to apply so weighty a prediction to such an occurrence, is really little better than trifling with the prophecies of Scripture, and again making the Word of God of none effect.
Other writers therefore are of opinion, that these words, with much of what follows, have no specific meaning at all,
but are only intended to denounce divine judgments in general.^
however it is most certain, as every person of plain common sense

* P. 143, 144.
f Jewish War, B. vi. cli. 5, § 3. (Whiston's translation).
\ "Then shall the sign, #c.

Then shall the supreme power and authority of the Messiah so conspicuously appear, that all the nations of the earth shall
Acknowledge him in this dreadful judgment."
Beausobre and L'Enfant's Note.


will conclude, that the words of Infinite Wisdom, -- the declarations of Omniscience, -- are not thus to be emptied of their meaning,
and treated as if they were idle bombast of human composition, -- 
to be put almost on a level with the



"  --  --  words
Spoke by an idiot; full of sound and fury,
Signifying nothing."

It is degrading enough to divinely inspired writers, such as were the prophets of the Old Testament, to judge of their effusions by the rules of ordinary poetry, (as is done even by critics who profess to esteem them most highly,) and to suppose that the expressive symbols with which they every where abound, are introduced like the artificial figures of uninspired authors, -- merely to elevate the subject in a general manner, but without any specific and appropriated meaning: but to imagine that he who spake as never man spake*, -- all whose words are spirit and are life-f, --  should not be above the tinsel arts of rhetoric, or should be capable of using a divine language:

single expression without a specific meaning, and that a meaning worthy of a speaker who was the Truth Itself; is indeed to form derogatory notions of his sacred character, and of the nature of it is plucking down heavenly wisdom from above
Most assuredly, every syllable the stars, to seat her in the dust.
that ever proceeded from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ, or that was dictated to inspired writers by his spirit, must have had a
Thus, when he informs us specific, determinate, divine meaning.
of so important a fact as that the Son of man will come again in the clouds of heaven, he must intend to apprise us of some distinct,
definite, great event: and every word of the prediction must have a distinct, definite, spiritual signification.

It is remarkable, that all the passages in which the second coming of the Lord is foretold, speak of it as an appearing of him in heaven or the sky, and, generally, in the clouds: It is remarkable also, that, whenever his second coming is treated of, it is always called the coming of the Son of man; or, if other words are used, they are such as bear, spiritually, the same meaning.
The peculiar applicability of this phrase to this event, is exemplified in an extraordinary manner in the answer of Jesus Christ to the adjuration of the high-priest: "The high-priest said unto him, I

* John vii. 46.

f Ch. vi. 63.



adjure thee, by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Son of God." He answered in the form of assent customary in the language in which he spoke, "Thou hast said:" but immediately proceeding to announce his second coming, he drops the title which he had just claimed of Son of God, and takes instead of it that of Son of man; saying, "Nevertheless I say unto you, that hereafter ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven."*
There is in fact but one regular prophetic announcement of the second coming of the Lord, in which the Divine Being who is to come is not, in so many words, stated to be the Son of man, and in which the mode of his coming is not affirmed to be in the clouds of heaven: and in that one passage, as we shall presently see such other words are used, as, mean, in their genuine sense, precisely the same things.

We proceed then, first, to investigate the meaning of the Lord's title of the Son of Man. We will begin with examining the manner in which it is used in Scripture; and having first discovered its signification in practice, we will state the grounds of it in

Analogy.

(5.) A very remarkable circumstance connected with the use of the phrase, "Son of man", in application to the Lord Jesus Christ,
is this; that, except in a passage of Daniel and two in the Eevelation, it is never applied to him except by his own mouth: and in those instances is not addressed to him, but is used of him, by
The phrases "Son prophets speaking under inspiration from him.
of God", and "Son of man", occur, in reference to him, with nearly equal frequency, and are each mentioned about eighty times.
The title "Son of God", though sometimes used by himself, is much oftener applied to him by others; whereas the title "Son of man" is never given to him, except in the above three instances,
by any but himself.
The reason, no doubt, is, because the phrase,
" Son of man", in common apprehension, bears a different meaning from that which it carries when used by the Lord Jesus Christ in reference to himself; -- because, if applied to him with the ideas

* Matt. xxvi. 63, 64.

See also Dan. vii. 13, 14; Matt. xxiv. 30, 31;
Mark xiii. 26; Luke xxi. 27; Rev. i. 7, compared with ver. 14; Ch. xiv. 14.
t We do not here include the notices of this event contained in the Apostolic
Epistles, those notices only being applications of the prophecies delivered by
Jesus Christ in person, not original predictions.


men in general attach to it, it would be Unsuitable and derogatory and therefore, though there are some who prefer to speak of the
Divine Saviour by his title of Son of man, meaning by it just what the words in their ordinary acceptation convey, Paul and the other apostles, who knew that in this acceptation they are wholly inapplicable to their glorified Lord, never presumed to speak of him by that epithet.*

It is commonly supposed^ that the Lord calls himself the Son of man in reference to his birth of a human mother: but in this sense it would be entirely unsuited to him after his resurrection because, while he never was the Son of man in respect to what men in general receive from their fathers, his person, as most divines acknowledge, underwent such a change at his resurrection, that he could no longer be considered, with any propriety, as the son of
It is remarkable also, that even while he was in the world,

Mary.

though he continually adverted to his relationship to his divine
Father, he never acknowledged any to his human mother: she never was called his mother by his own mouth: on some occasions he even refused to own her in that character: and although, in his childhood, it is said of her and Joseph, that he "was subject unto them:" this arose from the necessity of the case, and because he was willing in all things to observe the laws of order and "to fulfil all righteousness;" yet even then he expressly disallowed her
So also he corrected the gross conclaims to parental authority.!
ceptions of the Jews respecting the Messiah, as being the Son of
David, in a manner which plainly shewed, that, as to his person,
he owned no affinity with that prince, but only with that representative character which David is generally admitted to have borne: for, after quoting the passage of the Psalms, in which David says, "The Lord said unto my lord, Sit thou on my right hand till I make thine enemies thy footstool", he says, "If David, in spirit, [or by the spirit, -- by inspiration,] call him Lord, how is he then his son?"!
This question the Jews were unable to answer;
no more can they answer it, who believe that Jesus Christ is called,
in a merely literal sense, the Son of man.
If he owns no proper relationship with David as a man, most certainly he can own none

* See Paley's Evidences, Pt. II. Ch. iv. § iii.
f See John ii. 4, Matt xii. 46 to 49, Luke ii. 49.
% Matt. xxii. 41 to 46.
with any other human being.
As it is only in a representative sense that he is the Son of David, so is it only in a representative sense that he is the Son of man. It is not, however, here intended to investigate, generally, what is the true character and nature of the Lord Jesus Christ, or to establish any doctrine upon that subject; but only to endeavour to ascertain what is the scriptural sense of the title "Son of man:" and if any doubt should yet remain whether it is taken by the Lord in reference to his birth of a human mother, the following declaration, which affirms the omnipresence of the divine principle so named, should remove all uncertainty: Jesus said, "No man hath ascended up to heaven,
but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven*" Now certainly, if we understand by "the Son of man" that personal form which the Lord took from Mary, this was not previously in heaven, and, of course, did not "come down from heaven;" nor was this Son of man, when speaking these words, in
The phrase "Son of man", must then mean some divine heaven.
principle which is not controlled by the limitations of space, but is capable of being, at the same moment of time, in heaven, and upon earth.

"What then is there, among the peculiar characters of the Lord
Jesus Christ, to which this description is appropriate?
His most peculiar character is, that he is the Word: "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was
God. -- And the Word was made fiesh."f What is the Divine

Word, but the Divine Truth? and Jesus Christ declares that he is
He is also the Word of the Father; and,
"the Truth. "J
addressing the Father, he says, "thy Word is Truth." §
Suppose,
then, it should be in reference to his character as the Word, or the
Truth, that Jesus Christ calls himself the Son of man.
Let us assume this to be the case; and let us see how this idea will agree with the occasions on which he designates himself by this title.

For it is to be observed, that the Divine Being assumes, in the
Scriptures, a great variety of names and titles; and it cannot be imagined, if the Scriptures are really dictated by Infinite Wisdom,

that these are applied in an irregular, capricious manner.
In the
Old Testament the Lord takes the names of Jehovah, the Lord,

John iii. 13.

t John i. 1, 14.

\ Ch. jriv. 6.

§ Ch. xvii 17.


God, the Lord Jehovih or Lord God, Jehovah Sabaoth or Lord of
Hosts, the Holy One of Israel, the Mighty One of Jacob, the
Almighty, and several others: In the New Testament we find applied to him the names of Jesus, Christ, the Lord, God, the Son of God, the Son of man, the Prophet, the Lamb, &c.
There can be no doubt that there is some distinction of meaning in them all as also, that that name is always employed which best suits the specific occasion. And we will venture to affirm that it would be found, on an examination of the Gospels, that when the divine power of the Lord Jesus Christ, his divinity, his unity with the
Father, faith in him, and life from him, are the subjects treated-of,
he calls himself "the Son", and "the Son of God;" but that where the subjects of discourse are his passion, judgment, and, in general, redemption, salvation, and reformation, as also his second
Now if he coming, he always calls himself the Son of man.
applies this title to himself in reference to his character of the
Divine Truth, or Word, we shall easily see the reason why he employs it on these occasions. We will adduce a few instances by way of illustration.

Several examples might be given of the Lord's using this name when his passion is treated-of; as in this passage: Jesus said t®
the disciples, "Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests, and unto the scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the
Gentiles; and they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and the third day he shall
Were it not for the distinct meaning of the phrase,
rise again."*
" Son of man", would not Jesus, who begins the speech in the first person, "#?£go up to Jerusalem", have continued it in the same person, and have said, "/ shall be delivered to the chief-priests",
The reason why he changed the person, and said "the Son
&c. ?
of man shall be delivered", &c. ; was, because He suffered tho Jews to treat his natural body in a manner answering to that in which they had spiritually treated his Word; and because the sufferings to which he submitted, represented, by an exact analogy, the manner in which the Jews had perverted the Word, or the Divine
Truth contained in it, and had deprived it, as to themselves, of all life, having "made it of none effect by their traditions." We see
* Mark x. 33, 34.
then a good reason why, when foretelling his passion, he called himself the Son of man, if this title belongs to him in his character as the Word.

The same reason will account for his always calling himself the Son of man when judgment is treated of.
Thus he says, in the sequel of the prophecy before us, "When the Son of man shall come in his glory, -- then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:

and before him shall be gathered all nations; and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats* :" where judgment is evidently the subject, and the Judge
The reason is explicitly stated in the is called the Son of man.
following passage: "The Father judgeth no man, but hath com*
mitted all judgment to the Souf;" -- «." and", as is added, a little below, "hath given him authority to execute judgment also:"-*«.
Why? -- became he is the Son ofman% :"-^a reason which would be no reason at all, were it not that this title designates the Lord as to his character of Divine Truth, or the Word, which, all know,
is what must judge every one; Accordingly, the Lord says on the same subject, "If any man hear my words and believe not, /judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world: he that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him; the toord that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day."§
This proof seems demonstrative.
We are repeatedly assured that the world will be judged by the Son of man: yet Jesus declares that he does not come to judge in person, but that his word is what judges: consequently, when he takes the title of Son of man, it must be in reference to his character as the Itiv'me Truth or Word,

Wr e have also stated, that, for the same reason, the Lord is called the Son of man when redemption, salvation, and reformation, are
Thus we read, "The Son of man came the subjects of discourse.
to give his life a ransom [or redemption] for many|| :" "The Son of man came to seek and to save that which was lost^[ :" "He that soweth good seed is the Son of man** :" with many similar statements. Now as the Lord effects these works in and for man by means of his Truth or Word; and as the title, "Son of man",

* Matt. xxv. 31, 32: see also Ch. xix. 28.

f John v. 22.

U Luke ix. 56.

% Ver. 27.
fl Ch. xix. 10.

§ John xii. 47, 48.
** Matt. xiii. 37.


means the Lord as to the Truth or the Word j therefore he assumes this title when treating of these his divine operations.
Admitting this idea, in all the instances which have been adduced, and in every other that can be found, the use of the title, "Son of man,'*
is singularly beautiful and appropriate: upon any other supposi-

tion, it is impossible to account for its selection, in preference to any other of the Lord's divine names.

The instances then in which the Lord speaks of himself as the
Son of man, appear amply to evince, that he always assumes this name in reference to his character as the Divine Truth or Word but a passage remains to be mentioned which alone is sufficient to make it certain. We have seen above, that he who is to come again, is constantly, one instance alone excepted, called the Son of man: that instance is in the nineteenth chapter of the Bevelation,
where the second coming of the Lord is described in these words
< c I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat on him is called Faithful and True; and in righteousness doth he judge and make war.
His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns: and he had a name written which no man knew but he himself: and he was clothed in a vesture dipped in blood. And bis name is called the Word of God."*
Here is an open declaration, that it is in his character as the Word of God,
that the Lord is to make his second advent: but in every other instance it is said that he is to come as the Son of man: the inference is unavoidable, that, in Scripture-language, the Son of man means the Word of God.

(6.) The meaning of the phrase, "Son of man", is now, it is hoped, pretty clearly established by its use in Scripture: it is necessary however to add a word respecting its ground in Analogy.

It was briefly shewn in our last Lecture, that the natural rela-

tion between a son and his father exaotly answers to that which exists between the thoughts of the understanding and the affections
Reduce a man, if that were possible, to a state of enof the will,
tire apathy, so that he should not be animated by any affection or

* Yer. 11, 12, 13.

Observe how this statement, that the Word of God was seen in heaven riding on a white horse, corroborates the signification of horses,
and of riding on them, as given above, p. 170.
If a horse denotes the understanding of truth, and to ride on a horse to communicate instruction, we see a beautiful reason why the Word of God personified was seen in that action.
desire whatever; and his torpor would be so complete, that he would not be conscious of a single thought; he would, in fact, be
Wherever thought is in exerdeprived of the power of thinking.
cise, affection is in exercise; and the former is in all eases generated by the latter. No one, indeed, while life remains, can be so deprived of affection of every kind, and for every object, as to become void of thought altogether: yet most people experience seasons in which their thoughts are less active than at others; and if they examine the state of their affections at such times, they will invariably find them to be listless and unexcited: "on the contrary", as observed above*, "when any affection is in high excitement, how active are the thoughts 1 What a tumult of ideas; what multitudes of reasonings, crowd into the intellect, when violent
These are facts which every one must have observed; and they afford a proof which is demonstrative,

passions agitate the will."

that thought is the offspring of affection.

But what is the object of all man's affections, but goodness?
not indeed, in all cases, goodness which is really such, hut what he chooses to consider as such. Evil is too often substituted for good-

ness in man's affections: but then, it is never evil, as evil, which he makes the object of his attachment; but evil appearing to him as good: whatever he loves, he loves for the sake of something in it which he finds delightful to him, and which he deems a good.
Good then, either really or mistakenly such, is always the object of man's love or affections.
In like manner, truth, or something that may be referred to truth, is always the material of his thoughts. His opinions may be false; hut they are true to him; and he dwells on and maintains them as truth, A man's thoughts, likewise, or the opinions which in his heart he accounts to be true, always take a character from his affections, and from the objects which he accounts to be good.
Whatever he loves, he also loves to think of.
If it is an object in prospeot, his thoughts run upon the means of obtaining it; if in possession, his thoughts dwell upon the satisfaction which he finds
There are, then, various considerations which may convince us, that there is the same relation between Good and Truth, as there is between Affection and Thought: the one may be considered as an outbirth, which discovers the existence and the quality of the other: and as Thought is manifestly the offspring of Affection, so in it.

* P. 115.
is Truth the progeny of Good.
Truth would be called the son, and Good the father.

In the language then of analogy,

According to this view, it will easily be seen, why "the Word"
mentioned in the Scriptures, which we have already seen is another name for "the Truth", is called, in the language of Analogy, "the
Son of God;" and thus it will also be seen, that the phrase, "the
Son of God", decyphered by the laws of Analogy, means "the
Divine Truth",
This explanation will not resolve "the Son of
God" into a mere attribute, and nothing more, if all that is said on the subject in the Scriptures be taken into consideration; nor,
For though we can form an idea of Truth, or of Divine Truth, abstractedly, as a property or attribute, yet we readily perceive that a mere property or attribute is nothing, separate from a personal being whose property or attriThe Son of God, then, of the Scriptures, is the Divine bute it is.
Truth personified; as is evident from its being a name peculiarlygiven to "the Word made flesh", and never used till the Word was made flesh, otherwise than in reference to that event.

indeed, if reason alone be consulted.

But although it must easily be seen, that, in the language of
Analogy, the Divine Truth may be properly called the Son of God;
it may not so immediately be discovered, why, as stated above, the
Divine Truth is also called the Son of man.
Here then it is necessary to observe, that though the Divine Truth is described by both these names, they respectively refer to it under a different form; so that the appearance of the Divine Truth which is designated by the title "Son of man", is lower and more external than that which is designated by the title "Son of God", which is
The one is the pure Divine respectively higher and more internal.
Truth as proceeding from the bosom of Divine Love, and not yet intelligible to created beings, but in its first preparation for becoming so; the other is the Divine Truth under an accommodated form, adapted to the capacities of apprehension and reception in finite and human creatures.
This will account for its being called
In no state whatever does the Divine Truth the Son of man.
proceed from man: man can never be the author of it: yet it is on account of man that it is presented in the form of which we are here speaking: and being so accommodated for his sake, and by bringing it within the sphere of the human intellect as that exists both in this world and the worlds beyond the grave, it is


agreeable to analogy to denominate it, thus manifested, the Son ct man.

The Son of God, then, in the symbolic language of Analogy and of the Scriptures, is the pure Divine Truth itself; the Son of man is the same Divine Truth so modified as to be accommodated to
Both titles, beside this abstract meaning, also human reception.
refer to the Divine Truth personified in the form of the Lord Jesus

Christ.*

(7.) If then the title Son of man, in the language of Scripture,
founded in that of Analogy, is appropriated to the Lord in his character as the Word; it is easy to see that the "renovation" of pure Christianity which is in general indicated by the predictions respecting the second coming of the Lord as the Son of man, must be brought about by a renewed and more extensive discovery of

* It will corroborate what is advanced above, here to observe, how naturally the idiom of the language in which the Scriptures of the Old Testament are
In the language written, coincides, frequently, with the language of Analogy.
of analogy, we have seen that the term Son denotes a relationship different from that of natural generation; and in the Hebrew idiom it is often applied to
Thus in the things which are not literally connected by any such relationship.
original of Job v. 7, sparks are called "the sons of the burning coal;" an arrow,
again, is "the son of the bow", [ch. xli. 28,] or arrows are "the sons of the quiver." [Lam. iii. 13.] So, a,fruitful hill is "a horn of the son of oil", [Isa. v. 1,]
a valiant man is "the son of strength", [1 Sam. xiv. 52,] and a person in danger of dying, -- fitted for it, as it were, by circumstances, -- is "a son of death."
[1 Sam. xxvi. 16, 2 Sam. xii. 5.] Gussetius (in his Comment. Ling. Eeb. sub voce HJl) reckons ten classes of the figurative application, in the Old Testament, of the term son; and as the New Testament, though written in Greek,
follows, in its language, the Hebrew idiom, he shews that all these uses of the word have their parallels in the writings of the Evangelists and Apostles.
If then a spark is termed "the son of the coal", and an arrow "the son of the bow", or of "the quiver" as proceeding thence; most properly is the Divine
Truth, as proceeding from the Divine Essence, or Divine Good, denominated

" the Son of God" --  "the Only-begotten of the Father;" and if a person in the prospect of certain or imminent death, is called "a son of death", because fitted for it, and as it were appointed to it, as the phrase is sometimes rendered in the
English version; [Ps. lxxix. 11, cii. 20;] most properly is the Divine Truth named "the Son of man", when adapted to human apprehension.

Another instance, connected with the present subject, of the agreement of the
Hebrew tongue with the language of Analogy, may also be worth remarking it is, that as, in the language of Analogy, the term father has reference to the principle of love or good, or to will in general; so the word by which it is expressed in Hebrew, is derived from a root which signifies to will or desire.


But how does this agree with the anthe divine truth of his Word.
nouncement, that "they should see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory?" What can those clouds be, in which the Son of man, or the Lord as to his Divine
Truth, will make his advent?

It will go a good way towards putting our conceptions in a right train upon this question, to notice, (what seems generally to have been much overlooked,) that the circumstance of the Lord's having an abode in the clouds, is by no means discovered for the first time in the predictions relating to his second coming.
All that is at all new in this respect, in these predictions, is, that the Lord will then be seen coming in the clouds; which is never stated in reference to his first coming in the flesh: but that he at all times shelters his glory in the clouds, or has his residence behind or within them, and uses them as a vehicle, was known in the time
The latter says, "There is none like of David, and of Moses.
unto the God of Jeshurun, who rideth upon the heavens in thy help, and in his excellency upon the shy*; "where the word translated the ski/, is one which in many other places is rendered the
But the book of Psalms abounds, more than any other clouds.
book of the Holy Word, with magnificent descriptions of the Lord,
and of the modes of his appearance j and there we find him continually spoken of as attended with clouds. We will here only notice one sublime passage, which alone is sufficient to instruct us in the meaning of this important symbol.

The hundred-and-fourth Psalm commences thus:

" Bless the
Lord, O my soul !
Lord my God, thou art very great, thou art clothed with honour and majesty: who coverest thyself with light as with a garment; who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain: who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters who maketh the clouds his chariot; who walketh upon the wings
Whoever will consult, with this, the other passages of the wind.'*
in which clouds are mentioned in the same bookf, must be some spiritual thing of which clouds are the satisfied,
proper emblems, is continually ascribed in the Holy Word to
Jehovah, as a regular appendage of his ineffable majesty, and that

* Deut. xxxiii. 26.
t See particularly Ps. xviii. 10, 11, xxxvi. 5, lxviii. 32, 33, 34, xcvii. 1, 2,

cviii. 3, 4.


must be convinced, that though they are called the clouds of heaven and the clouds of the sky, the vapoury clouds that surround the earth, and the visible heavens or sky in which they float, are not the things really intended.

It is first to be observed, as a general remark, that the phsenomena of nature, when adverted to in the Word of God, are not regarded in the manner in which they are uuderstood by philosophers,
when this differs from their appearance to the senses, but are always spoken of in the popular way in which they strike an ordinary observer: for the design of Scripture is, not to give lessons in natural philosophy, but of spiritual wisdom, only using the
Thus the Scriptures,
images taken from nature for that purpose.
when they allude to the motion of the sun, always seem to assume it to be real, speaking of it as rejoicing to run its course, and the like; without saying anything of the real fact, so different from the appearance, that it is not the sun which moves, but the earth. Thus again the truth of philosophy informs us, that the clouds do not so properly belong to the heavens or sky, as to the earth, being nothing but a collection of watery particles exhaled from the earth and sea, and forming a sort of hollow sphere at a small distance from the terraqueous globe: whereas, to the eye alone, they appear as the lowest basis of the ethereal regions, -- as a sort of floor spread under the starry heavens. So do the starry heavens themselves appear to be very different from what they are ascertained to be by science, wearing the appearance of a blue arch of some positive substance, with the heavenly bodies, as they are called, stuck on it whereas the heaveuly bodies are known to be other suns and worlds suspended by some inconceivable power in the imensity of space whilst the blueness of the seeming vault of the sky is merely the consequence of our looking into a dark void through the denser atmosphere which surrounds the earth, and which is illuminated with the light of the sun or moon. Now it is according to these appearances, that the heavens and etheral regions, from the highest part of them, which appears studded with stars, to the lowest which is bounded by clouds, are considered in the Holy Word;
and this for the sake of the exactly suitable emblems which they thus afford for the conveyance of instruction in divine subjects.
With this sort of picture, then, of the visible heavens in our thoughts, let us see how the Science of Analogies will help us to understand the passage we have quoted from the Psalms.
"

honour and majesty."

Lord my God, thou art very great, thou art clothed with
Here we have a description of the Lord, as he is in himself, and in the first emanation of his divine energies,
as they proceed to impart spiritual life to his creatures. When he is said to be "very great", the reference is to his infinity, his unfathomable greatness, his inconceivable love, as it exists in himself,
beyond the remotest comprehension of any finite creature: and when it is said, "thou art clothed with honour and majesty", the reference is to the first putting forth of his divine excellencies of love and wisdom, in a sphere of intense ardour without him, and forming as it were "a sun of righteousness with healing in its rays", -- that beneficent fountain of life to all creatures, of which it is said in the gospel, that the Lord "maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good."
This is considered, in reference to the images drawn from the visible heavens, presently made use of, as beyond any thing that the eye can reach, -- as exceeding the highest
Then it follows, "Who coverest thyself limits of the firmament.
with light as with a garment; "which is an image taken from the lucidity that fills the visible heavens, and which might naturally be regarded as the first covering of that still higher region, supposed
As he no where in to be the seat of God's immediate presence.
nature presents himself to the sight, a mind acknowledging his existence, yet drawing its ideas from the appearance of the heavens uncorrected by science, would readily conceive the immediate abode of Deity to be above all that the eye can reach, and concealed from its view by the lucid mantle of the starry heaven. We well know,
however, that this cannot be the case. We know that the starry heaven is in fact below us as well as above us, so that all height therein is merely relative to the situation of our globe at any given moment; wherefore it is in vain to think, by soaring in imagination beyond the limits of the visible heavens, to find the immediate
Consequently, the light which we behold in the throne of God.
firmament is not the garment with which the Lord covereth himself: yet it is here spoken of as if it were; and why? because it is the proper symbol and representative of something which really is so. We have noticed, in our last Lecture, what the spiritual thing is of which light is the appropriate emblem.
It is indeed so obvious, that every one sees it at the first glance: and common language retains the use of the symbol, as an elegant way of desigWhat nating the thing to which it answers in spiritual analogy.
is more usual than to talk of the light of truth and the darl of ignorance, -- to speak of writings or sentiments as containing light in them, or the contrary, when we mean that they are irThe light then radiated or otherwise with the beams of truth?
with which the Lord covereth himself as with a garment, is the
Divine Truth proceeding from, and investing his Divine Good, -- 
containing also the Divine Good, which is spiritual heat, in its bosom, and thus recreating with its rays all the angelic hosts.

We pass over a few words, the explanation of which is not essential to the inquiry before us, to notice those which say of the
Lord, that "he maketh the clouds his chariot."
The clouds, as observed above, are usually considered in Scripture merely as the lowest base of the visible heavens, and as forming a covering or shade to the resplendent light that glows above them: hence as the light signifies the Divine Truth in all the glory of its essentially divine and spiritual nature, the clouds signify the Divine Truth in comparative obscurity, or when shaded over by appearances suited to, and, in some respects, taken from, the ideas of the merely
Here the truth of natural philosophy will help to natural man.

illustrate the subject.

Although the clouds appear to belong to the heavens, they in reality are composed of exhalations from the earth: yet they are always irradiated, more or less, by light from the etherial regions, which they transmit to the earth.
Thus they aptly represent the Divine Truth that proceeds from the Lord,
when enveloped in a covering of natural images and natural ideas,
taken from the perceptions of man in a natural state of existence.
As light, which is previously mentioned, represents, and is the appropriate symbol of, the Divine Truth as it is perceived in heaven,
and by illuminated spiritual minds, so the clouds represent, and are the equally appropriate images of, the Divine Truth as it exists on earth, conveyed in natural language, and clothed with ideas and images taken from the world of nature.
Thus they exactly typify the Holy Word, as we possess it, written in a book: that is,
they represent and signify the Word in its literal sense, in which it is Divine Truth in its shade, or in its lowest or ultimate form,
adapted and modified to the conceptions of man considered even as a natural and carnal being; but within which, or in its spiritual sense, is Divine Truth in its clearness and glory, adapted to illuminate with heavenly wisdom the most refined intellect of man considered as a spiritual being, and of pure spirits themselves.

But to point out more distinctly what we mean when we speak of Divine Truth in its clearness and Divine Truth in its shade; or between Divine Truth as represented by the light of the firmament and Divine Truth as imaged by the clouds of heaven; it may be expedient to give an example.
Every sentence of the Divine
Word will afford us one; though the difference between these two kinds of Divine Truth will appear more striking in some examples
Let us take the prophecy which we are conthan in others.
sidering: "They shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory."
Here, all the expressions made use of, are images taken from the world of nature: such are the terms, Son of man, clouds, power, and glory.
It is obvious that the sense which results from the mere combination of the

Speaker;

words, or the literal sense, cannot be that intended by the Divine still, if the words were spoken by the Lord himself, they must be Divine Truth: of course they must be Divine Truth in its lowest form, or in its shade, in which the genuine meaning is veiled over in such a manner as not immediately to be seen, although it nevertheless is actually contained within them. The genuine meaning is, that the Lord, who is the Divine Truth itself, will discover himself, or impart a just knowledge concerning himself and the things of his kingdom, by opening the literal sense of the Holy
Word, and disclosing its spiritual contents.
This, then, is that
Divine* Truth contained in these words, which is represented by the emblem of light or glory; but the words themselves, and the literal sense of them, are the clouds by which the light is shaded and veiled over, -- the "covering upon the glory."*

To draw a general remark from this example, it may be observed, that it illustrates the manner in which the Holy Word is written throughout; only there is a great variety in the density of the veil which the cloud of the literal expression throws over the glory of its spiritual contents.

In nature there are clouds of very different kinds, varying from a degree of density that almost excludes entirely the light of heaven, to a thinness which presents scarcely any impediment to the illuminating rays: and just such is the varying character of the letter of the Scriptures, considered as a
* Isa. iv. 5.


covering to the genuine Divine Truth contained within.
passages, as in that before us, the cloud of the letter is so thick,
that nothing more of the genuine truth shines through than this

 -- that some extraordinary divine interference will at some period

In many-

take place: but of the nature of this interference, the letter alone
In some parts of the Divine Word, the gives us no information.
clouds of the letter are thicker still; as is the case in all those passages from which, if taken alone, sentiments really contrary to the genuine truth might be deduced: such are the passages which seem to ascribe malignant feelings to the Divine Being, and which represent him as changing his mind, or as being in any way subject
But in other parts the clouds of which the to human infirmities.
letter is composed are of so thin a texture, that the light of the genuine truth within is translucent through it; as is the case in the law of the decalogue, and in many of the Lord's precepts in the
In fact, all that is absolutely necessary to salvation, is,
Gospel.
in various parts of the Word, plainly revealed; and all such passages, though forming part of what the Scripture calls clouds,
are, nevertheless, bright and transparent clouds, such as suffer the rays of heavenly light freely to pass through them.
Still, clear aud bright though the clouds of the letter in many places are, they do not cease to be clouds, and are not that undiluted light with which the Lord covers his immediate majesty as with a garment.
Though a great portion of the literal sense of the Word of God presents us with genuine truth, yet every part of it contains stores of light still more resplendent within. Every part of the letter is a cloud, though often a beautiful and bright cloud; and every part of it contains a more brilliant glory in its bosom.

Surely it were much to be wished, that mankind in general could be brought to view the Scriptures in this exalting light ! How entirely would the mists of infidelity be dispersed before it ! How completely would the whole of Sacred Writ be seen to be in harmony with the purest attributes of God, and with the highest reason of man !
And, surely, it is easy to see, that there may exist a distinction, in the Scriptures, between Divine Truth in its clearness and Divine Truth in its shade, and that the former is contained in their truly spiritual meaning, and the latter in their literal sense and also, how aptly they are represented by the light of the firmament, or the glory which is always spoken of as surrounding the



Divine Presence, and the clouds which veil it !

Surely, the pro-

phecy before us clearly proves the existence of this distinction, and
When, indeed, we first hear it advanced, that of these senses.
clouds, in Holy Writ, when mentioned in respect to the Lord, signify Divine Truth clothed with natural ideas and images, or the
Divine Word in its literal sense, the assertion may seem arbitrary and foreign to the subject: yet how natural does it appear on reIf, as is undeniable, the light of the firmament is an appropriate symbol of Divine Truth in its purity; if it thus is seen that there is between pure light and pure truth a certain and unalterable analogy or mutual relation, so that to mention the one when we mean the other is a highly expressive form of speaking,
grounded in the very nature and constitution of things; then, when the relation between the light of the firmament and the clouds is flection !

examined, it will be found to be exactly similar to that between pure spiritual truth, seen in its unclouded, abstract nature, and the same truth veiled over with symbolic language, or invested with a covering of images taken from the world of nature and the ideas of man in his natural state of existence; or between the interior contents of the Holy Word and its literal form: and thus it will be seen, that to speak of clouds when thereby is meant the literal sense of the Holy Word, is a mode of expression which is also founded in the very nature and immutable relations of things.

(8.) The meaning then of this prophecy, and the means by which the "renovation", which Dr. Jortin saw must be intended by it,
will be brought about, may now, it is hoped, be sufficiently evident.
If it be true that by the clouds are signified Divine Truth in its lowest or ultimate form, which is the same thing as the Word in its literal sense, it follows, that when the Lord informs us that his second coming will be in the clouds, we are to understand, that it will be effected by an opening of the true meaning of the Holy
Word: on which account, in the passage which we have noticed from the Psalms, the clouds are called the Lord's chariot; a chariot signifying doctrine or instruction, and it being by means of the letter of his Word, and never without it, that the Lord communicates instruction to man. And when we are apprised, that the
.jord always takes the title of Son of man in reference to his character as Divine Truth, and as Divine Truth adapted to enlighten human minds we see with what peculiar propriety it is that he announces his coming, in this character, in the clouds, and with power and great glory; these phrases denoting, that within, and out of,
the letter of the Holy Word, the efficacy and light of pure Divine
Truth will be made apparent.*

3. The last example which we are to offer of the applicability of the Science of Analogies to the interpretation of the prophetical part of the Word of God, is to be taken from the writings of the
Apocalyptic Divine; and we have selected his vision of spiritual
Babylon; the relation of which, after mentioning that an angel came to shew him the vision, he commences thus: "So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness. And I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-coloured beast, full * of names of blasphemy,
having seven heads and ten homs. And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls; having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication; and upon her forehead was a name written, Mystery, Babylon the great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth. And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of
The description is continued through the whole of this

Jesus. "f and of the following chapter.

As soon as men began freely to examine the Scriptures, at the time of the Reformation, the palpable manner in which the Eoman
Catholic Eeligion is portrayed under the emblem of this woman,
struck every mind; and from that time to this it has been generally admitted by Protestants, that the Harlot of Babylon is the
Eoman Catholic Church. The application is undoubtedly just: yet the deep reason of the various symbols employed, has not, perhaps,
For instance: Why is she called, not Eome,
but Babylon?
Should it be answered, Because Babylon was the greatest enemy and destroyer of the church of God under the
Mosaic dispensation: the question will recur, Why, under a dispensation of an entirely representative character, was the king of
Babylon made the instrument of destroying the metropolis of
Judaea and the temple of God?
Doubtless it must have been,

been generally seen.

* See the signification of clouds, when mentioned in Scripture, further illus-

trated in the Appendix, No. IV.

t Rev. xvii. 3 to 6.

0*
because a representative character attaches also to Babylon, whenever it is named in the Holy Word: and if modern Eome is spiritually called Babylon, it must be, because the representative character of the Scripture Babylon has become the real one of the
Roman Catholic Church.

(1.) When the situation of the places mentioned in the Holy
Word, does not alone, as in the case of the land of Gog, indicate what principle they symbolize, it is necessary to note the chief circumstances predicated respecting them: which will generally point to the truth.

Among the various motives to action by which mankind are governed, there is none which exercises a wider influence than the
This is little attended to among ordinary indilove of power.
viduals, because cases do not often occur for its exercise in a very extended form; and the innumerable instances in which it displays itself in little matters, escape attention from the very circumstance
Yet almost every family will furnish us with of their frequency.
instances of persons who are desirous to domineer over those around them: and that the principle is deeply rooted in human nature, in its present state, is evinced by its spontaneous development in the minds of the young. One cannot become domesticated in a seminary for youth, without seeing it strongly displayed: even the greatest care on the part of the master can seldom prevent the exercise of cruel tyranny on the part of the stronger children over
But when we turn our view from private scenes to the weaker.
public, the monster stalks before us in the most gigantic form.
How many conquerors, miscalled heroes, figure in the pages of history, who have spent their lives in the endeavour to aggrandize their power by the subjugation of the surrounding nations ! and how many sovereigns, whom the vicinity of more powerful states has prevented from signalizing themselves by foreign conquests,

have gratified their lust of dominion by striving to render their authority in their own kingdoms more absolute, setting their own will above the laws, and disposing at pleasure of the property and

In short, the lust of dominion in private lives of their subjects !
and in public, with the cruelty and oppression with which it is associated, is the source of the greatest evils which afflict mankind:

even the lust of gold, -- the auri sacra fames, -- so celebrated for the mischiefs of which it is the origin, is, in comparison, a gentle


The lust of dominion, soften it as we may by the milder demon.
names of ambition and the love of power, is the most direful evil which can reign in the human heart; and it cannot be doubted,
that, when encouraged there, and made the ruling motive of the life, it must finally sink its victim to the lowest gulf which yawns in the kingdom of darkness to swallow up the wicked of mankind.

But if the lust of dominion in general is of so direful a character,
what must we think of it when it seeks to accomplish its ends by
If to endeavour to subjugate others to its hypocritical pretences?
own caprice by the arms of the flesh, is a crime of so deep a die what does it become when it employs, in the same design, the
If to desire to rule over all the kingdoms of artillery of heaven?.

the world, is so corrupt a lust; what words can express its atrocity,
when it seats itself on the pinnacle of the temple, and arrogates such a sovereignty as belongs to God alone?
This, it must be admitted, is the worst form which the lust of dominion can ever assume. And this most dreadful form of this most pernicious lust,
is what is specifically represented by Babylon in the Holy Word as will appear by noticing what is generally predicated of it in the passages where it is mentioned.

The place which the Greeks called Babylon was by the Hebrews called Babel. The first occasion on which it is mentioned in Scripture, is, when its first building is related.
It is said to have been built by Nimrod; and its representation may in some degree be gathered from the character given of its founder, of whom it is said, that "he began to be a mighty one in the earth", and that
" he was a mighty hunter before the Lord* ;' by which is generally understood, that he was a hunter whose game was men, -- a conNext we have an account of the erection of the tower of Babel: and the purpose of the builders is queror whose pursuit was power.

so stated, as to leave no doubt of the symbolic meaning of the place they built: for they said, "Go to, let us build us a city, and a tower whose top may reach unto heaven, and let us make ns a
Whatever might be the nature of the historical fact here name."f referred to, it is plain that the terms in which it is related must be intended to convey a spiritual meaning: for it is impossible to suppose that any persons could think it practicable literally to

* Gen x. 8, 9.

t Cfa. xi. 4.


build up to heaven; under this mode of expression, then, is intimated the desire of some who lived at that time, to found a dominion that should arrogate authority over the souls of men as well as their bodies.

But there is no passage which exhibits more plainly than is done in a prophecy of Isaiah, the meaning of Babylon, as denoting the lust of ruling over both the bodies and s«uls of men, by perverting the doctrines of the church, and inventing fictions and imposing them as such doctrines, so as to establish, by their means, an unThe prophet exclaims, "How art thou fallen limited dominion.
from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning ! how art thou cut down to the ground which didst weaken the nations?
For thou saidst within thy heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God, I will also sit upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High'' *
It is from this passage that the prince of the devils has acquired the name of Lucifer yet whoever will attentively read the whole chapter, must see clearly, that this name is not given to any individual evil spirit,
but that the pride of dominion, represented by the city of Babylon,
For when the subject is is what is thus named and described.
opened, it is said to the true church, "Thou shalt take up this proverb against the king of fiabylonf" and towards the conclusion it is said, "I will rise up against them, saith the Lord, and cut off from Babylon the name and remnant, son and nephew, saith
Thus it is plain, that Lucifer is a personification the Lord J", &c.
of the kind of lust of domination represented by Babylon: and that this is the lust of obtaining dominion by using spiritual things as instruments for that purpose, and of arrogating authority over the souls of men as well as their bodies, is evident from Lucifer's being described as saying, "I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God, I will be like the Most
High.»§

f Ver. 4.

* Isa. xiv. 12, 13, 14.
§ It should also be observed, that the words in our translation, "the mount of the congregation", are better given by Bishop Lowth, "the mount of the divine presence:" for the original term translated "congregation", though it is expressive of meeting together, does not, in this use, merely mean the assembling
The tabertogether of the people, but the meeting together of God and man.
nacle, and afterwards the temple, were called the tabernacle and temple, not, as

% Ver. 22.


We will pass on to Daniel, who, writing his prophecies at the place itself, whither he had been carried captive, treats largely of
Babylon, and consequently of that species of the lust of dominion
Nebuchadnezzar relates a dream,
of which Babylon was a type.
in which he says, "I saw, and behold a tree in the midst of the
The tree grew and was earth, and the height thereof was great.
strong, and the height thereof reached unto heaven, and the sight
In the interpretation of thereof to the end of all the earth."*
this dream, Daniel says to Nebuchadnezzar, "The tree which thou sawest, whose height reached unto heaven, and the sight thereof to all the earth, -- it is thou, O king, that art grown and become strong: for thy greatness is grown and reached unto heaven, and thy dominion unto the ends of the earth." f being the king of Babylon, bears the same typical representation as
Babylon itself: and here we find the circumstance of reaching to heaven, so often mentioned when Babylon is treated-of, again in-

Nebuchadnezzar, as troduced; because it is a phrase expressive of the claiming of dominion over the souls of men; whilst the reaching to the ends of the earth as plainly implies the pretension to universal dominion
The blind presumption which accompanies such over their bodies.
pretensions, is represented by Belshazzar's impious feast, which was interrupted by the hand writing on the wall; on which occasion it is related, that "they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king and his princes, his wives and his concubines,
drank in them; they drank wine, and praised the gods of gold and
" by which was silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone represented the profanation of which those are guilty who are principled in that love of domination of which Babylon and her kings were types, in consequence of their assuming the appearance of sanctity, and making all the holy doctrines and rites of the in our version, of the congregation, but of meeting together, because in them the divine presence was manifested, and God was considered to meet with man and the same title was thence transferred to mount Zion, on which the temple stood. When therefore Lucifer declares his purpose of establishing himself on the mount of meeting together, the meaning is, that he, as representing the principle which we have described, would interpose himself between God and man, to become the self-constituted organ of dispensing the divine behests to mankind.

* Dan. iv. 10, 11.

\ Ver. 20, 22.

% Chap. v. 3, 4.



The same church minister to the gratification of their insane lust.
assumption of authority iu sacred affairs was represented by the command of Nebuchadnezzar, that all people, nations, and languages, should fall down and worship the golden image that he had set up, under pain of being cast into a burning fiery furnace*:
and the pretensions to a power absolutely divine are appropriately expressed by the decree of Darius, when he had obtained possession of Babylon, "that whosoever, for the space of thirty days,
should ask a petition of God or man, save of the king only, should be cast into the den of lions." f

Many other testimonies to the character of Babylon might be adduced; but these will surely be sufficient to evince, that the lust of dominion, when it seeks to obtain its end by prostituting to its purpose the doctrines and all the sanctities of religion, is what is signified by Babylon, or to represent which, Babylon, as a suitable
To ascertain, then, whether type, is employed in the Divine Word.
Babylon, in the Apocalypse, bears any allusion to the Romish
Church, it is only necessary to ask, Has the Eomish Church aimed
The answer is to be read at such dominion, and by such means?
in every page of the history of Europe, during the ages that preceded the Keformation of Luther .{

f Ch. vi. 7.

* Chap. iii. 4, 5, 6.
% History will discover to us the practice of the Romish Church; the principles from which the practice proceeded are well brought together in a recent popular work: take the following as a specimen: "According to the Canons,
the Pope was as far above all kings, as the sun is greater than the moon. He was King of kings, and Lord of Lords, though he subscribed himself the SerHis power it was which was intended, when it was said to vant of sen-ants.
the Prophet Jeremiah, ' Behold, I have this day set thee over nations and kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throw down, to
It was an incomprehensible and infinite power, because build, and to plant.'
* great is the Lord, and great is his power, and of his greatness there is no end.*
The immediate and sole rule of the whole world belonged to him, by natural moral, and divine right; all authority depending upon him. As supreme King, he might impose taxes upon all Christians; and the Popes declared it was to be held as a point necessary to salvation, that every human creature is subject to the Roman Pontiff.
That he might lawfully depose kings, was averred to be so certain a doctrine, that it could only be denied by madmen, or through the it was more pernicious and intolerable to deny it,
instigation of the Devil;
than to err concerning the Sacraments. -- All nations and kingdoms were under the Pope's jurisdiction, for to him God had delivered over the power and dominion in heaven and earth. -- The Spouse of the Church [as he was called]



Tims we see that the true reason, why Babylon, in the Revelation, is mentioned as a symbol of the corrupt Eomish Church, is,
because the governing powers of that church have been inflamed was Vice-God: men were commanded to bow at his name, as at the name of
Christ; the proudest sovereigns waited upon him like menials, led his horse by the bridle, and held his stirrup while he alighted: and there were ambassadors, who prostrated themselves before him, saying,
thou, that takest away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us

" The advocates of the Papal power proclaimed,  -- that all pontifical decrees ought for ever to be observed by all men, like the Word of God, to be received as if they came from the mouth of St. Peter himself, and held like canonical
Scripture. -- Even this monstrous proposition has been advanced, that although the Catholic Faith teaches all virtue to be good, and all vice evil; nevertheless,
if the Pope, through error, should enjoin vices to be committed, and prohibit virtues, the Church would be bound to believe that vices were good and virtues evil, and would sin in conscience were it to believe otherwise. He could change the nature of things, and make injustice justice. Nor was it possible that he should be amenable to any secular power, for he had been called God by Constantine, and God was not to be judged by man: under God, the salvation of the faithful depended on him; and the commentators even gave him the blasphemous appellation of our Lord God the Pope !
It was disputed in the schools,
 -- whether he did not, as God, participate both natures with Christ; and whether he was not more merciful than Christ, inasmuch as he delivered souls from the pains of purgatory, whereas we did not read that this had ever been done by our Saviour.
Lastly, it was affirmed that he might do things unlawful, and thus could do more than God!"

Nor were the inferior clergy left without a handsome participation in this
It having been determined that the sacramental bread plenitude of power.
was changed, when consecrated^ into the real body of the Lord; it was held that "the Priest, when he performed this stupendous function of his ministry,
had before his eyes, and held in his hands, the Maker of heaven and earth and the inference which they deduced from so blasphemous an assumption was,
that the Clergy were not to be subject to any secular authority, seeing they could create God their creator!
Let it not be supposed", says our author,
" that the statement is in the slightest part exaggerated; it is delivered faithfully in their own words."

Southey's "Book of the Church" Vol i. ch. 10.

As a further sample of the manner in which the Romish hierarchy, in the days of their prosperity, profaned the Scriptures by applying them to support their extravagant pretensions, take the following extract of a letter from Saint
Thomas Becket to the Pope: "It is by forbearance on our side that the powers of the world grow insolent, and kings become tyrants, so as to believe, that no rights, no privileges, are to be left to the Church, unless at their pleasure. But blessed is he who taketh and dasheth their little ones against the stones !
For if Judah does not, according to the command of the law, root out the Canaanite,
he will grow up against him, to be perpetually his enemy and his scourge." -- 
Ibid. Vol I. ch. 8.

with the lust of universal dominion over both the souls and bodies of men, and have profaned the most holy things by mating them subservient to that object; and because of this principle, whether existing in the Eomish Church or in any other, Babylon, in the

Scriptures, is constantly the symbol.

Babylon, this affording a key to the whole prediction.

(2.) We have examined at some length the signification of
The circumstances predicted of this personification of Babylon, in the verses quoted above, will be found, when explained, to be in perfect harmony with the signification of the woman herself; and as the analogical reasons of their signification are for the most part pretty obvious, they need not detain us long.

The appearance of the harlot was extremely splendid: she was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and decked with precious stones and pearls, and held in her hand a golden cup.

It is generally sup-

posed, that these things are mentioned, to describe the magnificence and splendour of the Roman Catholic worship, and the super-royal grandeur of the Papal Court; and, in their literal sense, the words
But this is not the spiritual will very well bear this application.
meaning of the terms; which properly imply, that that church assumes, externally, an appearance as if she were the true bride ot the Divine Bridegroom, decorated with all the spiritual elegancies which ought to distinguish the true church, whilst, internally reGarments are always garded, the opposite of this is her state.

mentioned in reference to the truths possessed by the wearer; as may appear from the passage of the Psalms noticed above, in which light, the proper emblem of the purest truth, is ascribed to the
The colours and other ornaments of the
Lord as his garment.

garments, express the quality of the truth, of which the wearer
Red colours bear an acknowenjoys, or boasts, the possession.
ledged analogy to fire and warmth, which as plainly answer, by a spiritual analogy to the principle of love: hence the purple in which this woman was arrayed, being an extremely deep and intense red *, represented the appearance which the Popish religion assumes, of possessing, from the truths of the Word, the highest order of good, being that which in the Scriptures is denominated the love of the Lord; and the scarlet, which is a bright red mixed with flame-colour, and reflecting a great deal of light, represented

* This was the colour called purple in the Scriptures.



the appearance of possessing, from the same source, the highest order of truth, being that which proceeds from, and leads to, love to the Lord. By gold is here specifically meant that species of good which the Scriptures call love towards the neighbour: and by precious stones and pearls, on account of the sparkling light which they emit, are signified specific points of knowledge on heavenly subjects. By the golden cup in the woman's hand, this being a vessel for containing liquids, is signified the doctrine of that religion, which is "the wine of her fornication", with which "the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk* :" it is said to be a golden cup, to intimate that her doctrine is made outwardly to appear as if it were founded in goodness: but by its being said to be "full of abominations and filthiness", is signified, that such appearance is merely assumed to ensnare the well-disposed, whilst in reality every good and every truth in that religion are adulterated and profaned.

But John saw the true character of the Eomish Religion revealed in the name written on the woman's forehead: "Mystery,
Babylon the great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the
The name is called "Mystery", because it discloses that earth."
which the Babylonians wish to conceal. When we are apprised that by Babylon is signified the lust of ruling over all mankind,
and even over heaven itself, we need not wonder that it is called
" Babylon the great;*' for none think themselves so great as those who are under the influence of this self-magnifying appetite. And this will explain, as we shall see presently, why Babylon personified is called "the Mother of harlots and abominations of the earth."
It is generally admitted that the spiritual signification of adultery,

is idolatry: for it is mentioned in Scripture in a variety of places
Thus Jehovah says by where the natural crime cannot be meant.
the prophet, "And I saw, when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israel committed adultery, I had put her away, and given her a bill of divorce, yet her treacherous sister Judah feared not,
but went and played the harlot also:" and in the verse following it is said, that she "committed adultery with stones and with
Here, Israel and Judah are regarded as the wives of the stocks." %

* Verse 2.
f For a sample of the abominations and filthiness with which the cup of

Popish doctrine is full, see the Note above, p. 206.

X Jer. iii. 8, 9,


Lord; consequently, the adultery with which they are reproached,
is their infidelity to him, which, by the clearest analogy, is the adultery of the Church: stones and stocks are mentioned, for idols made of stone and idols made of wood; and to Commit adultery with these, is to turn from the worship of the Lord to the worship of idols. And has not Rome been guilty of this sin? How many idols has she literally set up, to share with the Lord the worship of her disciples, or to draw them entirely away from him, who is the true husband of the Church

It is necessary, however, to observe, that it is possible to be spiritually a harlot, and yet not to offer outward worship to any but the true God: for this is also done by those who pervert the genuine truths of the Divine Word, applying them in such a manner as to favour any sentiment which is not true and good; especially when they are so misapplied as to seem to confirm any doctrine that has nothing for its end but the gratification
The proper partner of truth is of selfish and corrupt inclinations.
goodness, and the proper partner of goodness is truth; but when an unnatural union is effected between truth and evil, or good and a false persuasion, it is adulterated and defiled. And this is perFor as Babylon represents petually done by spiritual Babylon.
the love of domineering over others by means of the spiritualities of the church; and as the genuine doctrines and truths of the church are diametrically opposite to such a lust; they cannot be applied to promote its purposes, till they are quite wrested from their genuine import, and utterly perverted: and so to pervert them is to adulterate and profane them, thus, to apply them to the purposes of spiritual adultery. And as the lust of dominion, signified by Babylon, is perpetually doing this; therefore is she called,
with the strictest propriety, <c the Mother of harlots and abomina-

tions of the earth."*

But the Babylonian harlot is described as guilty of another vice: she is said to be drunken, and that too with a more maddening beverage than wine; for she was "drunken with

* Some examples of the adulteration, by Babylon, of the truths of Scripture,
by applying them to support her blasphemous pretensions, occur in the Note
It is also well known what a superstructure of imposture she above, p. 206.
has erected upon the text relating to the giving of the keys to Peter, combined with that in which Jesus Christ says, "All power is given to me in heaven and in earth."
the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs
To be drunken, is a phrase sometimes used in of Jesus.'*
the Scriptures, as in Ezekiel's address to the fowls and beasts,
merely to express abundance; but when, as is more common, intoxication is implied, its meaning will appear from observing the
As man, by natural ebriety, sinks spiritual analogy of that state.
from a rational being to a merely animal one, and yet generally thinks himself, at such times, more rational than those whose intellects are undisturbed; so the man who is spiritually intoxicated,
though he may retain the faculty of natural rationality, is deprived of intelligence in spiritual subjects, and is, in regard to these, in a manner insane; yet he, also, commonly exults in his madness, and thinks himself wiser than others.
Ebriety, then, in Sacred Writ,
denotes insanity with respect to spiritual subjects, and an exulting
But why is the profession of false sentiments for true ones.
Woman's intoxication ascribed to her drinking the blood of the
This is commonly supposed to refer saints and martyrs of Jesus?
to the barbarous persecutions and cruel murders which have stained the hands of the Komish hierarchy: but though the literal sense is here also very applicable, something beyond this is implied by
It is to be remembered, that the word "martyr"
the expressions.
is Greek, and means a witness; as the word "saint "is from the
The holy ones of Scripture, are
Latin, and means a holy one.
those whose lives are purified and made holy, by their reception, in affection, of the genuine truths of the Word; and, abstractedly they are those truths themselves; and the witnesses of Jesus are those who, by the same means, are enabled to bear the testimony which their name implies; and, abstractedly, they are those truths of the Word which point to the Lord and unfold his true character.
To shed the blood, then, of the saints or holy ones, is to destroy,
by false interpretations, those truths of the Divine Word which lead immediately to holiness of life; and to shed the blood of the martyrs or witnesses of Jesus is to destroy, by the same means,
those truths which lead to the correct and saving knowledge of
This has been done in abundance by the perverse exthe Lord.
positions of the Eomish Church; and in proportion as she has done it, and has drunk the blood thus shed, -- that is, has imbibed,
not the pure truth of the Word, but the most wilful violations of it, which is the signification of blood when shed unlawfully, -- her spiritual intoxication has increased; till she has boasted herself infallible, and has exulted in the persuasion that her proud pretensions would be admitted for ever; till she has said in her heart,
" I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow."*

In all the particulars, then, of the description of the harlot of
Babylon^ we find an exact delineation of the corruptions which take place, when the lust of dominion intrudes itself into the churchj and applies all the sanctities of religion to its own aggrandizement: and because this kas been the case, to a most deplorable extent, in the Church of Kome, her portrait is, in this description, so readily to be discerned.

These specimens are what it was deemed necessary to offer, to evince the applicability of the Science of Analogies, as a Rule of interpretation, to that part of the Word of God which is delivered in the
As before remarked, the brevity which it has style of prophecy.
been necessary to consult, has rendered it impossible to give the full proof which might be desired of the meaning of every symbol which we have had to consider; yet enough has perhaps been advanced, to shew that the truth of every interpretation which has been offered is at least highly probable, and to render it morally certain, that the system of Analogy between natural things and spiritual, affords the true and only key for the decyphering of the
The principles laid down language of the prophetic Scriptures.
at the beginning of this Lecture, on the character which must necessarily belong to the Divine Style of Writing, must be borne
If, as stated above, in a written revelation from God,
in mind.
the Divine Truth must clothe itself with ideas and images taken from the world of nature before it could be presented to man; and if the Divine Style of Writing must thus follow the Law of that
Analogy which indissolubly connects natural objects and ideas with such as are spiritual and divine: -- it will follow, that the spiritual and divine wisdom which such a revelation must contain within it,
could only be understood by a right application to it of this Law.
And if on an application of this Law to the books called the Holy
Scriptures, it should be found that they exhibit a coherent series of spiritual and divine instruction;
it will follow further, that the
Scriptures are such a revelation of Divine Truth presented to man

* Chap, xviii. 7.
in natural language j that they are the Divine Speech, or Divine
"Word, which has emanated from the bosom of Deity into this
In regard to the prophetical parts of lowest sphere of creation.

the sacred code, it is hoped, that their title to this character has now, in some measure, been evinced; and if so, the claims of the
Holy Scriptures to Plenary Divine Inspiration, will, so far, have been established.



