
=== LECTURE I - INTRODUCTORY. INFIDEL OBJECTIONS STATED

----
Prevalence of infidel sentiments, and of an increasing tendency to think meanly of the Scriptures. -- Their Plenary Inspiration generally relinquished. -- Design of these Lectures stated. -- Necessity of Revelation. --  The character thatmws* belong to a Composition which has God for its Author. -- Inquiry proposed: Do the books called the Holy Scriptures come up to this character? -- Answered in the afifirmative by the Lecturer, but the proof reserved for the subsequent Lectures: -- Answered in the negative by the Deist, on the alleged grounds, that the books in question contain statements that are contradictory to each other, some that are at variance with science and reason, and some that are repugnant to morality; and that, beside these positive objections, the greater part of them is occupied with indifferent and insignificant matters. -- General reply, that all such objections arise from taking a merely superficial view of the Scriptures, and from an ignorance of their true nature; and that they may be retorted so as to assist in proving what the true nature of the Scriptures is. -- Appeal to the reader, on the ill consequences of infidelity.
----

There is a prediction in the second Epistle of Peter (* Ch. iii. ver. 3.), which can hardly fail to present itself to the thoughts of every believer in
Divine Revelation, when he reflects upon the deluge of infidelity,
The which, in the present times, is seen pouring upon the world.
apostle says, "there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts:" upon which it has been justly remarked by advocates of Christianity, that the circumstance of the wide diffu-

sion of hostility to Eevelation which it is the lot of the present generation to witness, itself affords a testimony of the truth of the

Scriptures; since it is the fulfilment of a prophecy which the ScripAnother divine prediction of Holy Writ, will also tures contain.
frequently occur to the recollection of him who contemplates this state of things: Jesus Christ says, "Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away." (Matt. xxiv. 35.
)
It is now generally admitted by expositors of Scripture, that the so often occurring




1
prophetical figure of the passing away of heaven and earth, denotes the overturning of ecclesiastical and civil establishments.
Of these occurrences the present generation has seen more extensive examples, than have before been witnessed since the first establishment of Christianity; and were it not for the divine assurance that the words of Jesus Christ shall not pass away, -- (and these words,
in fact, include the whole of the Word of God, since we are assured by Peter that the spirit which inspired the old prophets was the spirit of Christ* ; -- were it not for this divine assurance,) we might almost expect, when we observe the activity with which deistical publications are circulated, and the avidity with which, in too many cases, their poison is imbibed, that, amongst the moral and civil revolutions of which the present is so remarkable an era, all belief in divine revelation would be abolished from the human mind; the awful consequences of which would be, to place the moral world in a situation precisely similar to that in which the world of nature would stand, were the sun to be abolished from the firmament.
In a neighbouring nation we actually have seen this revolution temProfligacy of manners and atheistical writings porarily effected.
had together destroyed, in a great portion of the people, all reverence for revealed truth: persons of this class possessed themselves of the government; and decrees were issued proclaiming

Christianity abolished, and disowning any Divinity but the Divinity
The horrors that ensued, by exciting a re-action, preof reason.
pared indeed the way for re-establishing the profession of Christianity; but as this is there disguised among the mummeries of
Popery, it is not likely, though now favoured by the government,
to make many but political conversions: and the disregard to the
Word of God appears to be nearly as great as ever, though conIndeed, there is ample tempt for it is not so indecently expressed.
reason for believing, that, in all Roman Catholic countries, infidelity,
in a greater or less degree, is prevalent with most of those, who consider themselves raised above the vulgar by station and acquirements.

Are the Protestant countries on the continent of Europe exempt from the contagion? There is reason to apprehend, that the poison of infidelity is here also spreading, not less rapidly than where it is fostered by the corruptions of the Church of Eome: of which
* 1 Ep. i. 11.
ample evidence might be afforded.
ordinary feature, discovering the tendencies of the present age in
Not only regard to the belief in revelation, becomes conspicuous.

But here also another extra -

is absolute infidelity very prevalent, but the religion that is professed is more and more assuming a character, which renders it different from infidelity, less in substance than in name. The most low and unworthy ideas of the Christian Kedeemer are daily superseding the honour that is his due; and, in the same ratio, ideas equally low and unworthy regarding the inspiration of the Sacred
The church of Geneva, so
Volume, are spreading with celerity.
long regarded by a large portion of the Christian world as the centre of illumination, has published a reformed creed, disavowing any belief in the divinity of the Saviour: and the universities of

Germany, which have formerly rendered such essential services to the cause of Biblical Learning, seem now to be labouring, through the works of their Professors, to reduce the standard of inspiration to as low a degree as is consistent with any belief, that the books which claim it contain a system of true religion; &o low indeed,
that it becomes difficult to perceive wherein they differ from the productions of writers who do not pretend to be inspired. A few years since, Dr. G. Paulus, a Professor in the University of Jena,
and a Clergyman, published a new edition of the works of the celebrated atheist or pantheist, Spinoza, with a laudatory preface, in which he maintains, that the sentiments of this acknowledged infidel respecting the inspiration of the Sacred Scriptures, are the same which, in the hands of Professor Eichhorn of the University of Gottingen, have led to such superior elucidations of the holy

Volume.
This Professor Eichhorn has published an Introduction to the Old and New Testaments, with several other works on Biblical criticism, which have been hailed with enthusiasm among his learned compatriots, as prodigies of erudition and genius. By erudition and genius he doubtless is distinguished: but how far his works tend to exalt the Scriptures, however they may elucidate questions connected with their language and with oriental antiquities, will be seen when it is stated, that, like our excentric countryman, Dr. Geddes, he denies any inspiration to Moses. And it is well known that similar latitudinarianism, miscalled liberality,
characterizes the works of the modern German literati, and teachers of Christianity, in general.

1*
Let us now turn our eyes for a moment to our own country.
Britain may undoubtedly be regarded as the Latium of modern times. As in Latium, according to the fables of the ancient mythologists, the virtues of the golden age took refuge after they had been banished from the rest of the world; so is it in Britain, unquestionably, that the greatest portion of true religion is in these
Here also, however, the destroying plague has
Owing in been let loose; and its ravages have been extensive.
part to the freedom which the human mind in this favoured country enjoys, and the liberty of publishing its thoughts which is neces-

ages to be found.

sary to the keeping alive of this inestimable privilege, deistical and atheistical writings have long been here abundant: a Hobbes set the example to Spinoza, as did a Toland and Tindal to Voltaire: and the most desponding anticipations were long ago formed by the friends of religion, of the devastating effects which might finally
What would these result from the audacity of its assailants.
worthy persons have thought, had they witnessed the indecency, as well as audacity, which characterizes the efforts of infidelity in the
In their times, but comparatively a few speculative present age?

persons entertained any doubts of the truth of the Christian religion: and the attacks which were then made against it only excited attention in the reading portion of society, which in those days was comparatively small: nay, the authors of such attacks then only addressed them to men of education, and thought the attempt to unsettle the faith of the multitude too desperate an experiment.
How different this conduct from that of the present generation of
Wisely concluding, that the less inthe opposers of Revelation !
formed the mind is, the less will it be capable of detecting the fallacy of their arguments, the infidels of the present day chiefly aim at accommodating their publications to the taste of the mob; whose passions, also, they labour to enlist on their side, still more than

Arrogant assertion, coarse ridi-

to convince their understanding.
cule, affected contempt, bold falsehood, and overweening dogmatism, with unfounded representations of the happiness which would ensue were mankind liberated from what they call the tyranny of kings and priests, and placed under no controul but that of the presumed infallible guide, Reason; -- these are the chief weapons by which they now make conquests: and as there is undoubtedly much in the human heart, to which all this is congenial and agree-
able, their success has certainly been extensive and alarming. The profligate, to whom the restraints of religion are irksome, finds it extremely consolatory to be assured, that the principles which govern his conduct are really "the Principles of Nature" : and the sciolist in learning feels it highly gratifying to his vanity, to decry as fallacious, all that is beyond the reach of his puny attainment.

Scepticism -- as incredulity is flatteringly called, -- may be termed a short road to universal knowledge: for he who derides as idle speculation whatever he cannot grasp by the exercise of his sluggish senses, is in his own conceit as wise as the archangel, to whom all the mysteries of God's providence stand open, and all the wonders of the Creative Energy are known.

Here then are two classes of persons among whom the contagion of infidelity has spread rapidly indeed. But is it among such, only,
This we would by no means that its converts are to be found?
presume to assert. No doubt, many have had their minds unsettled in regard to the truth of revealed religion, who were not prepared to take the inoculation of infidelity by a predisposed state of the mental organization; many even, to whom it would be a great relief, could they have their doubts removed to the full satisfaction
These are they who have had their attention directed to certain difficulties which appear to exist in the sacred volume; and which must ever appear as real difficulties to those who are not aware of the true nature of every divine composition, and of the design for which, and the principles according to which, it is written; although when these are correctly understood,
Whilst then these all seeming inconsistencies at once disappear.

of their understanding.

difficulties are so industriously brought forward, and presented to the attention with every comment that can help to make them appear insuperable; whilst also an antidote of sufficient power is not afforded by the writings which have been published in reply,

for such, I fear, must be allowed to be the fact; -- we cannot so much wonder at the immense increase of infidel sentiment at the present day; an increase which is really tremendous and appalling;
such as must excite the strongest apprehensions of the final issue with all who do not confidently rely on the assurance of Jesus

Christ: -- "Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away."

And whilst the fortress ©f revelation is thus furiously assailed by
Alas! by those without, how is it defended by those within?


sage to the citadel.

giving up its outworks to the enemy, and leaving unguarded a pasI am not now speaking of the works that have been written in defence of Christianity; but of the principles which, in modern times, have been laid down from high authority,
regarding the inspiration of the Scriptures themselves. By way,
as it would, appear, of compromising the matter with the enemy,
the doctrine of the plenary inspiration of the Holy "Word has, within a recent period, been generally relinquished by those who sit in
Moses' seat, and who pronounce, ex cathedra, what the church is
I allude not to such as are generally regarded as apos-

to believe.

tates from the orthodox faith; but the authorities to which I refer,
are the acknowledged oracles of the orthodox church. The present
Bishop of Winchester*, for example, in his work designed for the instruction of young clergymen, called "the Elements of Christian
Theology", lays down the doctrine upon this question thus
" When it is said that the Sacred Scriptures are divinely inspired,
we are not to understand that God suggested every word, or dicFrom the different styles in which the books are written, and from the different manners in which the same events are related and predicted by different authors, it appears, that the sacred penmen were permitted to write as their several tempers, understandings, and habits of life, directed; and that the knowledge communicated to them by inspiration on the subject of their writings, was applied in the same manner as any
Nor is it to be supposed knowledge acquired by ordinary means.

tated every expression.

that they ivere thus inspired in every fact tchich they related, or in
They were left to the common every precept which they delivered.
use of their faculties, and did not, upon every occasion, stand in need of supernatural communication; but whenever, and as far as,
Again divine assistance was necessary, it was always afforded."
he says, "Though it is evident that the sacred historians sometimes wrote under the immediate inspiration of the Holy Spirit, it does not follow that they derived from revelation the knowledge of those things which might be collected from the common sources of human
It is sufficient to believe, that by the general superintelligence.
intendence of the Holy Spirit, they were directed in the choice of their materials, enlightened to judge of the truth and importance of those accounts from which they borrowed their information",

* 1825.

Dr. G. Tomline. The family name of this prelate was Pretyman;

but he took that of Tomline on inheriting an estate left to him. -- H.

(and which he states afterwards were accounts written by uninspired men) "and prevented from recording any material error" He is.
here treating of the writers of the Old Testament; of the writers of the Xew Testament his sentiments are the same. He says, "If we believe that God sent Christ into the world to found a universal religion, and that, by the miraculous gifts of the Holy Ghost, he empowered the apostles to propagate the gospel, as stated in these books, we cannot but believe that he would, by his immediate interposition, enable those whom he appointed to record the gospel for the use of future ages, to write without the omission of any important truth, or the insertion of any material error" And these sentiments are generally received as orthodox -- are quoted from Bishop Law, and recommended, though not expressly adopted,
by the late Bishop Watson, in his answer to Paine, and are laid down in numerous works as the true principles of Scripture InspiWhat ideas the profoundly learned Bishop Marsh, one of the Professors of Divinity at Cambridge, entertains of the inspiration of the Sacred Scriptures, is evident from his laboured scheme ration.

to account for the composition of the three first gospels, as given with his translation of Michaelis's Introduction to the New Testament; in which he supposes a principal and a supplemental sketch of the Saviour's life and discourses to have been first drawn up by unknown authors, -- to have had various additions made to them afterwards as they passed through various unknown hands, -- and at last to have been digested by Matthew, Mark, and Luke, with
Other further additions, into the form of their respective gospels.

statements of this nature might be mentioned; but they all agree to the sacred writers.

in the leading principle of allowing only a very partial inspiration
Bishop Lowth, for instance, is a name ever to be mentioned with respect by the Biblical student, for his valuable Prelections on Hebrew poetry, and Yersion of Isaiah: but when he represents the prophets as borrowing ideas from one another,
and as improving or debasing what they thus borrowed according to the sublimity of their poetical genius or the purity of their criti-

cal taste; does he not degrade them, in a great degree, from prophets to mere poets? He certainly endeavours to elevate our esteem for their talents as men; but he assists in abolishing our reverence for their writings as flowing from the immediate dictate of God.
Now how do Deists receive these concessions so liberally made?
The advocates of Eevelation may be regarded as saying to them,
f See ! we have come half way to meet you: surely you will not obstinately refuse belief, now that we require you to believe so
What does the Deist answer? He says, "You are little."
admitting, as fast as you can, that we are in the right.
If you,
who view the subject through the prejudices of your profession,
are constrained to give up half of what we demand, unbiassed persons will augur from the admission, that truth would require a
No, my friends and brethren ! he who surrender of the whole."
would effectually defend the Christian faith must take his station
What ! tell the world, that to escape on higher ground than this.
the increasing influence of infidelity, they must surrender the plenary inspiration of the Scriptures ! As well might we tell them,
ihat to obtain security when a flood is rising, they should quit the top of the mountain to take refuge in a cave at its base.

Assuredly, this is a state of things, calculated to fill the breast of the sincere and humble Christian with profound concern, if not with deep alarm. On the one hand, he beholds Divine Eevelation assaulted with unprecedented fury and subtlety by those who avow themselves as its enemies; -- on the other, he sees it half betrayed and deserted by those who regard themselves as its
Every devout believer in Revelation feels an inward predilection for the opinion, that the inspiration of a divinely communicated writing must be plenary and absolute. He feels great pain on being told, that this is a mistaken notion; -- that he must surrender many things in the Sacred Writings to the enemy, to retain any chance of preserving the rest; -- that he must believe the writers of the Scriptures to have been men liable to error, as a pre-

friends.

liminary to his assurance that the religion of the Scriptures is true.

Surely, every one whose heart does not take part with the assailant of his faith, must be glad to be relieved from the necessity of making surrenders so fatal. The bowed staff eagerly springs back to its natural straightness, when lightened of the weight under which it bent: so he who has relinquished the doctrine of plenary inspiration, only because he saw no other way of accounting for the difficulties which have been pointed out in the Sacred Writings, will return to it with joy,
as soon as he sees how those difficulties may be explained, without the hypothesis of error in the inspired penman.

Reflection, then,
upon these things, has occasioned a desire in myself and some friends, to bring before the public, a view of the nature of the
Holy Word in which this is done, -- a view which, I strongly feel,
is the only one that places the Divine Book beyond the reach of
It is, however, with much diffiinjury from infidel objections.
dence, that I address an auditory from a station, which is at other times occupied by some of the ablest men, whom the Christian ministry of this metroplis can boast * : [and I feel the same selfdistrust, in a still greater degree, on addressing the public from the press.] My only hope of obtaining acceptance, is founded in my conviction of the solidity of the sentiments, which I am to be the very inadequate organ of unfolding: sure, also, I am, that no candid minds will be less pleased with the truth, because it is offered through a channel, which they might not previously have supThe defence of the oracles which conposed adapted to convey it.
tain the revelation of the Christian religion, is the common duty of all who assume the Christian name: and all who are sincerely attached to the Christian cause, will extend the right hand of fellowship to any one, be he otherwise who he may, who can point out a new line of defence, and shew how the divine authority of Revelation may be more effectually upheld. We are assured,
also, that the Lord's care over his Church can never be intermitted that in proportion to the magnitude of the dangers to which she is exposed, will be the communication of means by which she may be defended: and it is perfectly in harmony with the ordinary economy of Divine Providence, that those means should come from a quarter whence they are least "expected.
Confiding then in the divine support, on the one hand, and relying, on the other, on the charity and love of truth which must ever reign in the bosom of the true Christian; -- appealing also to the liberality and regard to pure reason which is constantly professed by the Deist; I beg the favourable aud earnest attention of this auditory, [and of the reader,] while I discuss the subjects announced for consideration in these Lectures.

The question of the Necessity of Divine Revelation, has been so frequently and so satisfactorily treated by others, that, as it is my
* A series of Lectures on Scripture Biography was then in a course of delivery at Albion Hall, by the most eminent Ministers of the Independent Connexions

1*

(


wish, as far as possible, to avoid going over ground that has been trodden before, I shall not dwell long on this part of the subject.

The view which I would take of this question, is this.

It is certain, that all the facts with which history brings us acquainted in regard to the state of mankind in former ages, and all those which are supplied to us by the observations of travellers respecting the present state of mankind in the different countries on the globe, afford the most decided evidence, that, without aid from

Eevelation, man is little better than a brute; -- that to Eevelation are owing all the superior excellences which ennoble his character as a man.
Infidel writers talk of the light of reason, and they speak of the duties of man in society, with every thing necessary to his moral and intellectual improvement, as being easily deduThe high utility of these sources of cible by the light of nature.
intelligence I readily admit: but when I hear such assertions as these, I always feel a wish to be informed how it has happened,
that the light of nature never conducted man to these discoveries,
except when Nature had the means of lighting her candle at the
It is evidently from the general improvement torch of Eevelation.
in the intelligence of the human mind which Eevelation has produced, that modern infidels have been enabled to illuminate their reveries with some beautiful truths: These truths were not discovered to them either by the light of nature or the light of reason they took them first from that religion in which they had been brought up; and then, finding them recommend themselves by their own evidence, and to be agreeable to the light of reason and nature,
they have ascribed them to that source; and thus they set up the offspring of Eevelation to destroy the authority of ilie parent.

Never yet was a nation known to have emerged from barbarism civilization, without instruction communicated, either imme-

to

According to the testidiately or traditionally, from Eevelation.
mony both of the Scriptures, and of other ancient authorities, all religion, which was all originally founded in Eevelation, begtm in the east, and has thence been diffused in the west; and it is well known, that the same has been the tract in which civilization has flowed over the world. The first created men had, as the Scriptures assure us, the knowledge of God and of their duty communicated
After the flood, Eevelation was to them by immediate Eevelation.
continued in the family of Noah, by whose posterity all the
powerful and highly polished nations of antiquity were founded.
Even the Grecian and other ancient mythologies were corruptions of the originally true religion communicated by Eevelation to Noah
This takes away the plea of those, who and his descendants.
would appeal to the philosophers of Greece as examples of the

This plea has indeed been well efficacy of the light of nature.
answered by Leland and others, who have shewn, that, under the name of philosophy, the most ridiculous fancies in theory, and the most corrupt abominations in morals, were often foisted on mankind, and that a man would wander in darkness indeed, who should
But admitting, for draw all his light from such fountains alone.
argument's sake, that it would be safe to take the best of the phiit is a well known fact,
losophers as guides in religion and morals:
that both Plato and Pythagoras derived a part of their systems from the priests of Egypt, whom they went expressly to consult and though the pure light of Eevelation was in Egypt greatly obscured, yet it is certain that all the true knowledge of a religious nature which the Egyptians possessed, was what remained from
As natives of Greece their original descent from the son of Noah.
then, where the religion derived from the revelation to Noah existed under one form of corruption, and as students in Egypt,
where the same original religion existed under another form of corruption, Pythagoras and Plato possessed themselves of all the remains of knowledge which tradition had preserved from that
I would by no means affirm, as some learned men have done, that Plato borrowed any of his ideas from the Jews, or that the writings of Moses afforded any of the materials for the
Grecian mythology: but there was a revelation existing in the world before that given by the instrumentality of Moses, and which was similar to his in substance, though different in form; and this,
turned into symbolic representations, was the foundation of the

Eevelation.

popular religion, whilst the ideas veiled in those symbols were the speculation, among all the distinguished of philosophic basis nations of antiquity.

The sceptic may laugh at the assertion, but I am satisfied that they who can view things in their causes will see its truth; that,
whatever they who would separate science from religion may pretend to the contrary, Eevelation is, in an indirect manner, the fountain-head of all science: for it is in consequence of the elevation of the faculties that is occasioned by the reception of the truths which are the objects of revelation, and the consequent illumination of the mind with heavenly light, (allow this phrase, ye advocates of the light of of nature? -- for if there be such a thing as Revelation, the percep-

tions which are its offspring must be the progeny of heavenly light,)
that it becomes receptive of higher degrees of natural light, and is capable of making greater discoveries in the truths which are the
It is true that these maybe separated, and that objects of science.
men may excel in natural science, who ridicule every thing spiritual: yet it is only in consequence of their receiving the outward part of the sphere of illumination, which continually flows from
God into the human mind, through the medium of those who receive the internal part of it, by admitting the truths of Revelation,
that progress is made in natural science.
All real intelligence, on whatever subject, must unquestionably be the product of a sphere
The highest objects of illumination flowing continually from God.
of tins illumination must be the truths that relate to man's welfare as an immortal being, -- the lowest, those which conduce only to his

Intelligence in the former respect their)

well-being in this world.
must be considered as the operation of an interior sphere of divine illumination; and intelligence in the latter, as the operation of an exterior sphere of the same. Now the former must be to the latter,
just what the soul is to the body: and the latter can no more be entirely separated from the former without extinction, than the body can be separated from the soul without death.
Again: Illumination in spiritual things is to illumination in natural, what the
If the femoral artery be divided and heart is to the members.

secured, the limb will still receive nourishment through the anas-

tomosing vessels:
this answers to the case of the existence of scientific attainments, with those who deny religion; who yet receive the exterior sphere of illumination from God, in consequence of living in connexion with those who receive the interior sphere also: but separate the limb entirely from communication with the heart, by dividing all the vessels, and the limb will speedily waste away: and this exhibits the fate of science, were it altogether separated from Revelation.

Transplant then a colony of atheistic philosophers (Deists, as retaining from Revelation the belief of a

God, would not be proper subjects for the experiment: -- but transplant a colony of atheistic men of learning,) to a remote corner of
the globe, and allow them no communication whatever with the disciples of Eevelation; and the certain effect would be, that they would
To what cause can degenerate by degrees into absolute barbarism.
be attributed the wonderful superiority in literature and the arts,
which the inhabitants of Christendom have so long maintained over all the other nations on the globe, but to their minds being more receptive of light of all kinds, in consequence of their admitting the light of Eevelation? How extraordinary too is the power
See how they have covered which they derive from this source !
the whole western world with their colonies, and how the aboriginal inhabitants have faded from before them!
Behold what an empire they have established in the east, almost without colonization, by the pure force of moral superiority !
It is not meant to be asserted that they have always made the best use of their supeSuperiority in arms riority, but only that it unquestionably exists.

is, undoubtedly, the offspring of superiority in arts and science and these are the products of natural light, which is the offspring of spiritual; and thus Christians are the arbiters of the destinies of the world, because they are the depositories of the Word of God.
As the tropical climates so immensely excel all others in the luxuriance of their vegetable productions, because they receive most directly the recreating energies of the orb of day; and as all other countries are productive or otherwise according to the proportion which they obtain of the vivifying beams, till, at the poles, perpetual sterility reigns: so are the powers of the human mind invigorated or otherwise in proportion to their reception of the beams of
Eevelation, and when excluded from these, they languish in the torpor of dulness and ignorance.
Paradoxical, then, as the assertion may sound in the ears of some, it is a certain fact, that could those who cultivate science without regard to religion, and who reject the
Holy Word, the parent of all science, accomplish the object which some of them have aimed at, of destroying the Holy Word by the aid of her rebel progeny; they would accomplish much more than they intended: in digging a grave for Eeligion, they would open one, in which, not long afterwards, Science also would be entombed.

In one word, Until an instance can be adduced of a nation that has flourished in arts, morals, and civilization, without any assistance from Eevelation, we have full reason for concluding, that Eevelation is necessary.

benefits, -- in order to man's enjoyment of the true excellences and

For the attainment even of these natural attaining the perfections of his nature, in this life, the light of Kevelation is indispensable: of the existence and attributes of God,
of his own immortality, of the existence and nature of a life hereafter, and of the means by which he may there attain the true end of his being, without the light of Kevelation, he would know noHere then it becomes indispensable indeed; and thing at all.

therefore, in all ages of the world, it has been afforded.

Since then we have such ample reason for concluding, that a revelation from God, under some form or other, is absolutely necessary to the well-being of man: -- on the supposition that God, to make the advantages of revelation constant and permanent, should cause it to be communicated in a written composition; what is the character which, we may justly conclude, such a written revelation
Our ideas on this question will be regulated by would assume?
the ideas we have conceived of the nature of God Himself: certainly, if these are such as are worthy of the Father of creation, we shall be led to expect something of a most exalted nature in a written revelation of his will. Who then is this wonderful Being,
whom we assume to be the author of the writings called the Holy
Word?
Infidelity itself must allow, that this question cannot be more appropriately answered, than is done, as from the mouth of the Lord Himself, by the prophet Isaiah: "I am the First, and
" Who has
I am the Last, and beside me there is no God."
measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with a span, and comprehended the dust of the earth, in a measure, or weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance? Who has directed the spirit of the Lord, or, being his
With whom took he counsel, or who counsellor, has taught him?
instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught him knowledge, and shewed him the way of understanding?
Behold, the nations are as the drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing: Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, and the beasts thereof for a burnt offering ! All nations before him are as nothing,
and they are counted to him as less than nothing, and vanity. To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compare
unto him?" He is "the High and Lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy." *
It is by such images as these that the prophets of the Old Testament depict the grandeur of the
Author of the Bible; nor does the New Testament describe him in less impressive terms. When he manifested himself to John, as related in the first chapter of the Revelation, it is written; "I am
Alpha and Omega, the Beginning and the Ending, saith the Lord,
Who Is, and Who Was, and Who is to Come, the Almighty." f
 -- I forbear to add any thing to these scriptural representations for in attempting to delineate the ineffable perfections of God, all human language must fall infinitely too low: -- yea, this is a theme never do it justice.

of so transcendant a nature, that the tongues of angels could
Let us elevate our ideas as far as we possibly can above all that is earthly and gross; -- let us form the grandest conceptions we possibly can of the intense ardour of the
Divine Love, of the transcendant brightness of the Divine Wisdom, and of the immense extension of the Divine Omnipotence and then let us recollect, that these Divine Attributes are infi-

nitely beyond all that the highest efforts of imagination can con-

ceive.

Now whilst we are meditating on these three grand attributes of Deity, -- his Love, his Wisdom, and his Power; -- if we would endeavour to picture to our thoughts how far they might respectively be exerted, we certainly could never conceive any thing beyond what the Scriptures represent them as having actually perThus if we were to consider in what works the Divine formed.
Love might most evidently be displayed, we assuredly could imagine nothing more replete therewith than the wonders of pur own creation and redemption.
For the Lord doubtless created mankind expressly with the design to bless them with every felicity: he also provided an eternal heaven in which that felicity might be permanently enjoyed: and what could Infinite Love do
Yet the Love of the Lord has done more. For when man more?
had entirely receded from the end of his creation, such was the mercy of Him by whom all things tcere made, and tcithout whom was not any tiling made that was made %, that he assumed man's nature by incarnation in the world, in order to lead him back to his Maker and to bliss.

* Isa. xliv. 6, xl. 12 to 18, lvii. 15.

f Ver- 8 -

% John * 3 -


If again we were to consider within ourselves in what manner the Divine Power of the Lord might be most evidently displayed, we could not possibly imagine any more stupendous exertions of it than those which we see around us.
For what amazing power must that have been, by which this fair globe was formed, and peopled with innumerable inhabitants; by which the enormous orb that gives us light and heat was created; and by which myriads of other such immense repositories of heat and light, each with a train of dependant worlds, were called into existence, and arranged in an order that baffles all human intellect to conceive, through the boundless fields of immeasurable space covered.

Since then these manifest exhibitions of the Divine Love and the Divine Power are of so immense and magnificent a nature,
must we not expect that an immediate revelation of the Divine
Wisdom would be equally wonderful and glorious?
That in all the works which we have already mentioned the Divine Wisdom is apparent, and that none of them could have existed without it, is,
indeed, a certain truth: still we may imagine a method in which the Divine Wisdom might be more immediately and expressly disThe readiest means we have of judging of the intelligence or understanding of men, is, by their sentiments and conversation; and if a man writes a book, we expect to find in it the plainest evidence of his wisdom, knowledge, and mental attainSuppose then the Lord God Almighty himself should ments.
reveal his Wisdom in this manner; suppose he should write, or cause to be written, a book for the instruction of man; should we not conclude, that such as the Lord God Almighty is, such his book would be? should we not infer, that such a book, like its author, must, as to its contents, be infinite and divine?
Should we not expect to see the glories of eternal wisdom shine forth from
All mankind, with one voice, must answer these every page?

questions in the affirmative.

Here then we come to the great question that is at issue between
It cannot be denied, we see, that a the Christian and the Deist.
written Kevelation that is really from God, must answer the character which we have attempted to depict: Do then the writings contained in the book called the Bible, come up to this character;
and are we, on that account, authorised to receive those writings as

the Word of God?
I hesitate not to reply, with the fullest confidence, that they do; and I hope to make this in some degree evident before the conclusion of these Lectures.

By the Deist, however, such an answer as this may be received with the utmost scorn. He will readily enough admit, that a book that is really communicated by divine inspiration, ought to answer to the character which we have just described: but he will declare,
that he can discover no traces of such a character in the book called the Bible. He will affirm, that such a character as this can by no means belong to a book in which there are many statements that are contradictory to each other; many that are contradictory to reason and science; many that are contradictory to just morality; and the greater part of which book, moreover, is occupied with matters of an indifferent nature, unworthy of the concern of
To these four heads may all the classes of an Infinite Being.
infidel objections to the Scriptures be reduced. Some of the objections are, in my estimation, fully refuted in the mauy valuable defences of the Scriptures which have been published by various authors; but some of them, I candidly acknowledge, have not, in my opinion, been adequately met: the reason, I apprehend, has been, because the generality of those who have written in modem times in defence of the Sacred Scriptures, had not those just ideas of the primitive ages respecting their true nature and design, which alone can meet every objection fully and without reserve.

I will here give a slight statement of the nature of each of these four classes of objections: and I will not shrink from stating them with all the force of which they are susceptible: -- because I am com-

pletely satisfied, that the views I shall develope in the succeeding
Lectures, will be fully adequate to overthrow them all.
It is of no real use to present things partially and unfairly: this always gives opportunity of triumph to an enemy; and will only secure the attachment of a friend, so long as we can secure his remaining in ignorance.

Great stress has been laid by infidel objectors upon their charge of contradictory statements of facts: and of the instances alleged to be such, they have collected a great number.

Thus, after Moses had directed Aaron, saying, "Take thy rod,
and stretch out thy hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams, upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools of water, that they may become blood; and that there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and in vessels of stone* *" -- and after it is related, in the two next verses, that the miracle was performed accordingly; -- 
objectors affirm that Moses must strangely have forgotten himself,
to say in the verse following, "And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments." When all the water of Egypt was turned into blood before, how, it is asked, could the magicians repeat the operation? -- But the varieties observable in the manner in which the different evangelists state the events of the life of

Jesus Christ, sometimes disagreeing in the order of time, and sometimes in the circumstances with which the facts were attended,

have afforded an extensive field for opprobrious animadversions.
When Matthewf, in relating the temptation of the Lord Jesus
Christ in the wilderness, makes it conclude with the rebuff he gave the tempter on being offered the dominion of all the kingdoms of the world on condition that he would worship the Satanic deceiver;
whilst Luke % places last the suggestion to throw himself down from the pinnacle of the temple in proof of his being the Son of
God; -- it is argued, that the whole is a fiction, marked as such by the prevarication which so commonly attends the testimony of witnesses who undertake to support a falsehood: and Christian advocates, while they deny the inference that the whole or any part is a fiction, allow that one of the relators must have been mistaken in regard to the order of time, and that, though he relates true events, he relates them from his own imperfectly informed mind,
Again, the objectors ask, What and not from divine inspiration.
credit is to be given to the veracity of writers, -- and, especially,
what becomes of their claim to divine inspiration, -- when they misquote so grossly the books which they esteemed sacred, as to assign to one writer what is only to be found in the book of
Thus Matthew, on occasion of the purchase of the another?
potter's field with the refunded price of the treachery of Judas,
says, "Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, ' And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value, and gave them for the potter's field; as the Lord apThe only passage in the Old Testament which pointed me."§

* Exod. vii. 19.

f Ch. iv. 10.

% Ch. iv. 9.

§ Matt xxvii. 9, 10.
bears any similitude to this, is not in the book of Jeremiah, but in that of Zechariah.* And the harmonizers of Scripture have seen no way of surmounting this difficulty, but by one of two equally dangerous admissions; -- either that Matthew teas mis-

taken; or that the book of Jeremiah has come down to us in a very
The only other example of deistical objections mutilated state.
from alleged contradictions which I shall mention, is that drawn from the account of the two thieves who were crucified with Jesus,
as given by Matthew and by Luke.
After relating the cruel scoffs with which the Saviour was insulted by the Jews as he hung on the cross, Matthew saysf , "And the thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth:" whereas Luke!
affirms that only one of them displayed this brutality, and that he was rebuked for it by the other; who, so far from mocking, "said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingThis difference is accounted for variously by the commendom."
tators, some of whom say, that when Matthew speaks of thieves,
in the plural, he only means one of them; whilst others suppose that they both, at first, joined in the scoffs, but that one of them
But the objectors treat these solutions as afterwards repented.

mere evasions; affirm, that the passages are in direct opposition and ask in triumph, which we are to receive as the pure Word of God.

The second class of Objections --  the imputed contradictions to science --  chiefly regard the Mosaic account of the creation and the deluge.

The account of the creation in the first chapter of Genesis,

it is alleged, cannot possibly be true; because the science of geology,
which within a few years past has received such great improvements, fully evinces that the whole globe of earth, with its innumerable tribes of inhabitants, vegetable, animal, and human, was not formed within the short space of six days, as there detailed.

Besides, it is affirmed, that, independently of geology, reason alone proves the inaccuracy of the statement: for light is said to have been produced on the first day § ; whereas the sun, moon and stars
; and it is very certain, as we were not created till the fourth day ||
now often experience on a very cloudy night when the moon is below the horizon, that without sun, moon, and stars, there cannot

* Ch. xi. 12, 13.

f Ch. xxvii. 42.

% Ch. xxiii. 39 to 43.

§ Ver. 3, 5.

j[ Ver. 16, 19.


be any light.
It is likewise related j that all the vegetable creation was produced on the third day*, thus before the formation of the sun; yet every rustic knows that without the heat of the sun there can be no vegetation.
So also the history states, that, after Cain had killed his brother, he was terrified lest every one that met him should kill him, to prevent which a mark was set on him by God f
 -- which evidently supposes, that at this time the earth had numerous inhabitants; although, according to the record, none were then living on it, beside Cain, but his father and mother, who would know him whether a special mark were set on him or not.
With regard to the deluge, they affirm it to be improbable that any general deluge ever should have existed, after the globe was once brought into a state adapted for the support of a human population; and they raise great objections as to the possibility of providing room in the ark sufficient for the accommodation of the immense multitude to which the prescribed numbers of animals of all species must have amounted %, and to contain, besides, an adeAccording to the history, Noah with his quate stock of provision.
companions, animal and human, remained in the ark a year and ten days § : and a long period must afterwards have elapsed before the devastated earth produced a sufficiency of new food for their support.
This objection has been answered by calculations to prove the immense bulk of the ark, which, it has been shewn, must have been equal in magnitude to twenty first -rate men of war, and to more than forty of the largest Indiamen j but this, while it is alleged to be still quite insufficient for the purposes required, has furnished the infidel with another objection, who contends, that no vessel of such magnitude could be made to cohere together.

But the most serious class of Objections against the divinity of the Sacred Scriptures, is that which has recently been urged in such shameless terms, declaring the Bible, -- which well-disposed minds have revered for ages as the code of all perfect morality,
to be the most immoral book in the world !
this charge, as is in great part done, upon those passages in which

Certainly, to ground criminal practices are mentioned for the express purpose of being condemned, and of warning mankind against the dreadful consequences which must overtake the perpetrators; or even to ground

* Ver. 11, 13.

f Gen. iv. 14, 15.
§ Cha. vii. 11; viii. 14.

% Cha. vii. 2, 3.
it upon the incidental mention, without comment, of the commis-

sion of great crimes; -- surely this evinces the accusation to have originated in nothing but deep malignity against, the Bible, its
But the charge deserves more attention
Author, and its friends.
when they support it by instances of criminal conduct in persons
Thus they that "are spoken of as peculiarly accepted by God.
dwell much upon the case of Jacob, who, at the instigation of his mother B-ebekah, defrauded his brother Esau of his father's blessing, by a most extraordinary deception practised upon Isaac, and supported, when the old man suspected it, by the strongest asseveration of a deliberate falsehood.* By the example of the same patriarch, who had two wives and two concubines; --  and indeed of nearly all the Jewish worthies and kings, a sanction is given, they allege, to polygamy and concubinage; an opinion also which has not been confined to Deists, since Dr. Madan, a clergyman of the
Church of England, published a well-known bookf with the design to prove, from the above examples, that polygamy and concubinage
But the objectors contend, that worse are allowable to Christians.
things are sanctioned even than these; for by the examples of Ehud
The former was one of and Jael, licence is given to assassination.
the Judges, raised up, it is said, by the Lord, to deliver Israel when in subjection to the Moabites; and who, under the pretence of carrying a present to the king of Moab, obtained a private auJael was the dience, and then sheathed a dagger in his bowels. X
wife of Heber the Kenite; and when Sisera, the general of the army of Jabin king of Hazor, was defeated by Deborah and Barak,
" he fled, to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite; for there was peace", it is expressly said "between Jabin the King of Hazor,
and the house of Heber the Kenite. And Jael went out to meet
Sisera, and said to him, Turn in my lord, turn in to me: fear not."
And when she had thus inveigled him into her power, and had lulled him to sleep, she drove a nail through his temples § : for which act, it is said of her in the prophetic song of Deborah and
Barak, "Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber the
Kenite be; blessed shall she be above women in the tent." ||
As for the scandals to which the conduct of David has given rise, who,
though called the man after God's own hearty, was guilty both of

* Gen. xxvii. 6 to 29.

t Entitled Thelyphthora. -- H.

§ Ch. iv. 17 to 21.

|| Ch. v. 24.

J Judges, iii. 15 to 22.
^ 1 Sam. xiii. 14; Acts, xiii. 22.
nmrder amd adultery * ; these are too painful to dwell upon.
Moved by such seeming incongruities, the Marcionites and Yalentinians, with other early sects of Gnostic Christians, regarded the
God of the Jews as an evil genius, -- as "the prince of this world"

whose power Jesus came to destroy! : and the modern Deists charge Christians with blasphemy, for receiving the record of such transactions as the Word of God.

The last class of Objections against the Sacred Scriptures, is drawn from what persons uninformed respecting their true nature,
What deem the insignificance of a large portion of their contents.
sort of ideas (they ask) must we form of the Divine Being, on the supposition that he is the Author of the Bible, when we find whole books filled with directions for the performance of ceremonies,
which in themselves can be of no importance | : when we see chapters taken up with precepts respecting what sort of food his servants should eat, and what sort of clothing they should wear. §
What minute cares must we suppose to engage his breast, when we see him giving such exact instructions about the dimensions of
What the Tabernacle, and the size and form of all its vessels !
useless services must we imagine him to be pleased with, when we find him commanding such a variety of sacrifices to be offered, and giving such precise orders respecting the manner in which the minutest part of the rites was to be performed !^[ And what contracted and partial attachments and antipathies must we suppose to reign in his bosom, when we behold him exhibiting a peculiar regard to the insignificant nation of the Jews ** , to the exclusion of the rest of the world; or when we hear of his commissioning prophets, with all the solemnity of divine authority, to denounce

|J

anathemas, not only against great metropolitan cities, such as Babylon ff, or Nineveh JJ, or Damascus § §, but against the insignificant abodes of an insignificant population, -- such as the villages inhabited by the tribes of Moab and Ammon ||
! Can the Father of the universe (they demand) feel such concern, and command it to be

||

* 2 Sam. xi. 2, 15.

f John xii. 31; xiv. 31.

% See Leviticus throughout, and much of Exodus, Numbers, and Deute-

ronomy.
§ Levit. xi. ; Exod. xxviiL
** Exod. xix. 5.

[| Ex. xxv. to xxxL

ft Jer. 1. li.

fl Lev. i. to vii. Sec.
Jt Jonah L »*

§§ Amos i. iil

||[| Jer. xlviii. xlix.


written in Ins Book for the information of the remotest generations,
about the domestic affairs of nations whose very name was shortly to perish from the earth, -- about the condition of cities which were presently to crumble into dust, and confound the skill of geograSuch solicitudes as these (our phers to decide where they stood?
opponents will allege) might not be unbecoming in those fancied deities of the ancient heathens, Avho were supposed merely to preside over particular districts; but how (they ask) can we conceive them to dwell in the breast of your great I Am, the High and
Lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, the Creator of myriads of worlds?

Such, under a general form, are the strongest objections which the adversaries of the Scriptures make to their divine authority and some of them, it must be candidly admitted, are such as to embarrass the rational inquirer, who enters on the study of the subject without a correct idea of its proper bearing. However, plausible as they may appear, I undertake to affirm, and hope in the succeeding lectures to make good the affirmation, that to adduce from such considerations an argument against the divine inspiration of the Scriptures, is entirely to mistake the whole nature of the case that the argument thence deduced falls to the ground of itself, as soon as the true nature of the Word of God is seen, and the design is regarded for which it was given to mankind; that, in fact, the existence of such things in the Scriptures as we have adverted to,
affords no argument at all when adduced to prove that they have no origin in Divine Authority, but yields an irrefragable one when applied, as it only ought to be applied, to evince, that the Scriptures must contain much more in their bosom than is extant upon their surface. We propose then to wrest the weapons of the infidel out of his hands, and make them assist in establishing this great truth; to prove by their aid, not that the Scriptures are not the
"Word of God, but that they are; to demonstrate by their help,

what is the genuine Divine Style of "Writing, -- what are the true characteristics of a Divine Composition.

I will conclude at present with exhorting all who favour me with their attention, to be careful to cherish such thoughts of God,
and of a revelation from God, as are worthy of the subject.
Let us above all things be on our guard how we lightly fall in with the



)
:

2-1



prevailing infidelity of the times.

I have no doubt that there is nothing against which the Divine Providence is more anxious to preserve mankind, (so far as it can be done without infringing that freedom without which man would not be a man,) than from falling into contempt for the Holy Word: and that man cannot more perversely abuse the noble powers with which he is endowed, nor run more directly counter to the designs of his Maker, than when he reasons himself out of all reverence for the written revelation of the
Little as it may generally be supposed, the Holy
Divine Will.
Word is the chief medium of communication between man and heaven, and indeed between man and God; which communication is cut off, and man falls into a merely natural and animal state,
in proportion as he regards with contempt this highest and best

Confirmed infidelity -- such as extends to scorn and hatred against revelation -- is in most cases the result of depravity of heart; how speciously soever this may be glossed over before the world by subtle reasonings, and a proud display of merely natural, superficial virtues; though indeed even this cover-

of his Maker's gifts.

ing is east away by some of the present race of Deists and Atheists;
whose works exhibit such malignity of disposition, as sufficiently evinces the foulness of the source whence their sentiments issue.
Most true is the saying of the Apostle; that "if the gospel be
{finally*, that is; -- for we are not to judge harshly of those who, with sincere intentions, are embarrassed by honest doubts, -- 
"it is hid to them that are lost:" -- that is, to those who are so hid",

enslaved to worldly and selfish lusts, as to be unwilling to hear any thing, which, by calling them to higher pursuits, would disturb
I make not these them in their sleep of darkness and of death.
remarks with any wish to intimidate: -- the freedom of the rational faculty in the present age is too complete to admit of intimidation
 -- but I make them to induce those whose tendency to scepticism has not settled into confirmed negation, fairly to weigh both sides of the question before they decide, and to go into the inquiry with that solmnity of attention which is reasonable, where so much is
These I would entreat especially to regard that assurance of Jesus Christ, so consonant to pure reason, -- that rectitude at stake.

and purity of object in making our inquiries, is the best preservative against error in drawing our conclusions: "If any man", says he, "will do His will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God." *
This is the only safe rule, where the thing inquired into is religious truth; and rny conviction is, that they who act in the spirit of this rule will find their reverence for the Holy Word continually increase, and their understanding of its contents continually improve, till they are satisfied that, like the Word incarnate,
it, "proceeded forth and came from God."

* John vii. 17.

---
<<<

