
=== Junior

Discuss the sermon as a whole first, explaining the three parts and what is in each. Then speak of the Blessings as the key to the whole teaching of the Lord, the positive side of the commandments. The Juniors are coming into an age when a challenge to right feeling and conduct may be much more effective than prohibitions. They should understand that both are necessary, but that the really happy life is one which has the Lord's unselfish spirit at its heart. Then go through the specific lessons and end with the parable.

Chapters 5, 6, and 7 of the Gospel of Matthew are called the sermon on the mount. Why?

In the Scriptures many other wonderful things happened on mountains. The commandments were given from Mount Sinai. Jesus went up into a mountain to pray. He took His three closest disciples up into a mountain to see Him transfigured. And you remember that the test Elijah proposed and carried through was performed on Mount Carmel. This is because a mountain top is a picture of a high state of thought and feeling, a state when we are near the Lord and can look down on our everyday life and see it in its true proportions. So when the Lord saw how much the people needed His teaching, He took them up with Him into a mountain. For when the Lord saw the multitudes, He saw not only their bodies but also their souls.

The sermon on the mount is not long, but there is so much in it that it would take a whole year's lessons to study its teachings one by one. You will want to do that for yourselves. But you should know and remember that in each of its three chapters there is one especially well—known passage: in chapter 5 it is the Blessings, in chapter 6 the Lord's Prayer, and in chapter 7 the Golden Rule.

The sermon begins with the Blessings. Blessed, as we learned in our lesson on the first Psalm, means "happy." Many people may not think that the states the Lord in this sermon calls blessed would really make them happy. They think happiness comes from pleasures, success in their occupations, popularity, wealth, and influence. But we know that people may have all these worldly things and yet not be happy. Happiness comes from the Lord; it is His unselfish spirit felt in our own hearts. When we think about ourselves all the time and want other people to be doing things for us, we are never happy because we are always wanting more, and often wanting things we cannot have. Only forgetting ourselves and loving to help others brings real happiness. This is what the Blessings teach us.

The sermon gives us many examples of what we must do if we wish to develop the qualities which bring happiness. We must prove that we really want to serve the Lord by doing what He says is right, by keeping the commandments. We must not let resentment or anger stay in our hearts. We must be kind and forgiving when people injure us. We must not praise ourselves for the good we do or try to tell other people about it so that they will praise us. We must think more of being good than of being successful in the world. We must trust the Lord for our future and not worry about what may happen to us. We must not find fault with other people without first looking for our own faults.

What parable do we find near the end of the sermon?

What is a parable?

In this parable the house is our character. The rock on which we should build it is the Lord's truth. The sand is our own opinions or the opinions of others who do not study the Lord's truth to find the way of life. The rain and the floods and the wind are all the temptations and trials which come to us in our lives. These come to the good and the evil alike.

What happened to the house built on the rock when the storm came?

What happened to the house built on the sand?

Why were the people astonished at the Lord's teaching?

The Lord could speak with authority because He was God Himself.

