
=== Suggested Questions on the Lesson

Junior: Where did the Lord go after His baptism? wilderness

Junior: What happened to Him there? tempted

Junior: How did He answer the devil each time? "It is written ... "

Primary: What is our lesson today about? sermon on the mount

Primary: With what does the sermon on the mount begin? Blessings (Beatitudes)

Primary: What does blessed mean? happy

Junior: Are the things the Lord calls blessed just what we would expect? no

Junior: What do they teach is the source of happiness? the Lord

Primary: How many chapters does the sermon on the mount take up? three

Primary: What very well—known passage is in the second chapter? the Lord's prayer

Primary: What one is in the third? the Golden Rule 

Primary: Can you repeat the Golden Rule?

Junior: With what parable does the sermon on the mount end? house built on rock/sand

Primary: What is meant by our "house"? our character

Primary: What is the "rock" on which it is safe to build? truth from the Word

Intermediate: Why are the opinions of men like sand? shifting, unstable, no unifying element

Senior: Why could the Lord speak with authority? He had authority

== THE LORD'S MINISTRY — Matthew 8

In a brief course such as a Sunday school course must necessarily be, it is impossible to take up all the Lord's work of preaching, teaching, and healing. This chapter has been chosen as showing the variety of the acts of the Lord in His ministry and something of their significance. With the classes from the Juniors up the discussion of miracles in general is perhaps of primary importance. Doubt of the miracles is so prevalent that even the children will inevitably meet it occasionally, and they should understand as clearly as possible why the miracles were necessary and how it was possible for the Lord to perform them. They can be shown that the ground of doubt of the miracles is not reason but unwillingness to believe. A very general statement of the spiritual meaning of the various miracles in this chapter will be enough to show them the importance of the miracles to the writing of the Word. Questions of disease and healing may be raised even by the Juniors, and the effort has been made in the notes to suggest the basis for answering such questions.

