
=== Intermediate

The correspondence of the sepulcher and the stone and of the coming of the women with their spices are the lesson for this class especially. Be sure they understand why it was the women who first saw the risen Lord.

---
When the Lord was crucified, His body was placed in a rock tomb and a great stone was rolled in front of the entrance. You remember that stone is one of the symbols of truth. It pictures the hard foundation truths on which one builds the house of character and with which he walls it in for protection against spiritual enemies. In a lower sense it pictures the hard facts which we must accept and recognize. There are many other things which truth does for us which are not like the uses of stone. So in the Bible there are many other symbols of truth. Water, for example, pictures truth as it comes down to us from heaven, as it is stored in our memories — the seas — or as it cleanses our lives, as symbolized in baptism. Silver is truth as a shining ornament to the mind and as a medium of exchange of thought with other people. It was a fact that the Lord was rejected and put to death. It was a fact that His body was placed in a rock tomb. The letter of the Word, in which these facts are recorded, is pictured by the sepulcher itself. It was a fact that the people wanted no king who did not promise them material prosperity and that they wanted to know nothing of spiritual life. This hard materialism was the stone with which they closed the entrance.

But these things do not apply only to the ancient Jewish nation.

The material body in which the Lord comes to us is the letter of the Word. When we refuse to believe that this is divinely inspired, we are really rejecting the Lord, and when we argue away the necessity of obedience to the truths of the Word, we are crucifying Him and putting His body in a tomb. The stone which we roll in front of the entrance to prevent access to the Lord is our refusal to raise our minds above the level of natural truth, the things which our senses perceive.

The women who came to the sepulcher on the first Easter morning had loved the Lord. They had known He was wonderful and had believed Him to be the Messiah, but it probably had never occurred to them that the Messiah, after He once came, could die. So when they saw Him die, they too lost hope. But even with their hopes blasted they loved Him just the same and, while the men merely mourned their disappointment, the women thought about what they could still do for Him. So they came to the sepulcher with the spices they had bought to anoint His body, hoping they could find someone to roll away the stone.

"And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away." It is love for the Lord's character which enables us to overcome our natural inclination to believe only in what we can see and touch and to realize that those are not the real and living things. So the women were the first ones to be told that the Lord had risen, and they believed what the Lord's messenger told them. And Mary Magdalene, whom the Lord had healed of a terrible obsession, was the first to see Him after He rose. Spices are another symbol of truth — this time the interior or higher truth which is perceived by those who are good.

The disciples were very hard to convince. They did not believe the report of the women. And when the Lord finally appeared among them, He "upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart." The Lord had told them several times how He must die and that He would rise again on the third day but, as we say, it had gone in one ear and out the other. Our parents try hard sometimes to prepare us for things they know will happen to us, but we are too much interested in something else to pay attention. This is one reason why the Lord has to let troubles come to us — because sometimes we will learn in no other way.

That the Lord really did rise from the dead and appear to the disciples is not only because the Gospels tell us so but because His appearance so changed the disciples that from being discouraged and fearful they became bold and brave and went out and told all the world about it. Most of them — tradition says all but John — were put to death for their preaching, but they were not afraid of death because the Lord had proved to them that death is only a step in life. Because they had seen Him alive again they knew that everything He had told them was true, and they wanted nothing better than the opportunity to tell everybody else the good news - the Gospel.

Doesn't it seem strange that after nearly twenty centuries, in which this good news has made wonderful changes in men and in the world, there are still people who refuse to believe it? In verse 16 of our chapter the Lord says, "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned." This sounds to us very hard, but it is the truth. You remember that baptism pictures the determination to make our lives clean according to the truths that the Lord gives us in His Word. Those who do not have this desire nor make this effort must necessarily be led by their own judgment, which is essentially worldly and selfish. And to be selfish is to be in hell or damned. Selfishness is the very spirit of hell both in this world and in the life after death.

The Lord also told the disciples certain signs which should "follow" those who believed. In the early days of the Christian Church these signs did at times literally follow them. If you would like to read some of the things which happened, look up Acts 2:1-4, 5:12-16, 10:44-46, 28:1-6. These things happened because the simple people of that time needed to have their faith confirmed and strengthened in this way. But men have developed intellectually since then and should not need such physical evidences. For us the signs are pictures of the spiritual results of belief. Those who truly believe in the Lord can cast out their evil desires; they can understand different kinds of people and say the right thing to help each one; they enjoy the pleasures of the world without being hurt by them; they can hear and read things that are false without believing them; and they can help other people to overcome their weaknesses also. Think of these things as you read verses 17 and 18.

The resurrection not only means to us that the spiritual world is real and near and that death is nothing more than going to sleep in this world and waking in the other, but it means that everything the Lord said about Himself and everything He teaches us in the Word is true, because He is life itself, our heavenly Father, who created us and cares for us always.

