
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
It is important to give this class a sense of the weight of evidence concerning the resurrection. Children need to feel sure and also to be able to say why they are sure. So give them as wide a factual background as possible for their Christian faith.

---
What special Sunday is today?

What was last Sunday?

Why was it called Palm Sunday?

What animal did the Lord ride into Jerusalem?

Why did the people welcome Him?

Why did they so soon turn against Him?

What happened on Thursday night?

What new feast did the Lord institute?

What happened on Friday?

The body of the Lord had been placed in a tomb belonging to Joseph of Arimathea. A great stone had been rolled against the door of the sepulcher, and at the request of the religious leaders Pilate had had this sealed and had placed a guard of soldiers to prevent anyone's stealing the body.

The accounts of the events of the first Easter Sunday differ slightly in the four Gospels, but they really merely supplement each other. Matthew and Mark are quite brief and simple, Luke is more detailed, and John gives much more of the Lord's teaching as well as several facts which are not in any of the other Gospels. It is clear that the women who loved the Lord were the first to discover that He had risen, that Mary Magdalene was the first to see Him, and that the eleven closest disciples — Judas, who had betrayed the Lord, had hanged himself - would not believe that He had risen until they saw Him with their own eyes.

In our chapter we learn (verse 14) that when He did appear to them, He "upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen." In the account in John (John 20:29) the Lord says to Thomas, who had been the most doubtful of all, "Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed." We wish sometimes that we might have lived in the time when the Lord was on earth and might have known Him personally, but you see how little the men who had that privilege really understood of what He taught them. For He had told His disciples just what must happen to Him and that He would rise again on the third day, and yet when He was taken captive, they all deserted Him, and when they saw Him die, they thought everything was over.

Sometime you may hear someone say, "How do I know there is a life after death? No-one ever came back to tell us about it." This is simply not so. It has been said that the testimony of the four Gospels would stand up in any court of law. We may believe their testimony. The Lord did "come back" to show us that death is only a step in life. We go to sleep in this world and wake in the other. It is as simple as that. We leave our physical body behind because we have no further use for it, but we have a spiritual body formed of the substance of the spiritual world. It is a much more perfect body than the one we have here, for it exactly expresses what we really are. We need to remember that when we get into the other world we cannot put on a pleasant look to hide our hateful feelings, and we cannot change our real character after we die; so it is very important for us to get rid of our hateful, selfish feelings while we are here. When the Lord appeared to His disciples after the resurrection, they were frightened and thought they were seeing a ghost, and He said (Luke 24:39), "Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones as ye see me have"; and yet, as we are told in John 20:19, He appeared in their midst although the doors were shut. John tells us in the very last verse of his Gospel that the Lord did many more things than could possibly have been recorded. We have evidence of the fact that He must have told His followers something of the difference between the natural and the spiritual body in the statement of the apostle Paul in his first letter to the Corinthians (15:42-44).

From the Gospel of Mark we might think that the Lord's ascension into heaven took place very soon after the resurrection, but we learn from Acts 1:3 that the Lord was seen for forty days after He rose from the dead.

What commission did He give His disciples?

What signs did He say would be given to those who believed in Him?

In the early days of the Christian Church such miraculous signs were necessary, because people had for so long been in the habit of thinking of this world as the only real world. But the Lord does not want us to have to be convinced by miracles. He wants us to use our minds and see and believe in Him from reason and from love of His ways.

So we should think of the change which the Lord's resurrection made in the whole history of the world and the difference it makes in our lives to believe in the reality and nearness of the spiritual world. The Gospel testimony and history both teach us why Easter Sunday should find us each year more grateful and faithful followers of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.

