
=== Notes for Parents

We all know that Easter is the anniversary of the day on which the Lord rose from the dead. Our chapter shows us how hard the disciples were to convince that He was really alive, even though He had told them beforehand just what would happen. Verse 14 tells us that He "upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen." Many people today are like the disciples. They know the record in all the four Gospels, but they will not believe it. They go on thinking of the material world as the only real world and of death as the end of everything. And they spend their whole thought and energy in getting all the material things they can for themselves and trying to keep their bodies alive, while their souls — which are going on forever — are being starved and warped and shriveled.

We ought to know better even from what this earth teaches us.

Every fall the flowers in our gardens die, the fields become bare, and the earth freezes into apparent death, but in the spring new life pushes up out of the earth, the twigs become green and the buds begin to swell, and presently the earth is overflowing with life and beauty again. The Lord said to His disciples early in the last week of His earthly life, "The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal." Spring is a picture of the resurrection. Life goes on forever. The soul never dies.

It is a curious but not meaningless fact that even the name which we have given to the day on which we celebrate the Lord's resurrection from the dead is a name associated with our earthly spring. Easter is a respelling of Eastre, the name of the Teutonic goddess of spring. And we have adopted the custom of giving our children Easter eggs and little bunnies and fluffy chicks. There is every reason why they should have these pretty symbols if we show them at the same time how they teach us of the constant renewal of life and tell them how the Lord showed us that our life goes right on after the body dies.

No Christian should fear death for himself or for his loved ones.

For a good person, death is the crown of life, when his eyes close on the struggles and disappointments and limitations of this world and open to the beauty and freedom and endless progress of the life beyond the grave. It was to show us this that the Lord let Himself be put to death and rose again on the first Easter.

The children may like to have you read them the Easter story from another Gospel also. A good chapter to read is Luke 24. Chapters 20 and 21 of John give a still longer account which you should read for yourself and with your older children especially.

