
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
See what the children have in their minds about Easter. Refer to the Palm Sunday lesson, mention what happened to the Lord afterward, and tell them how discouraged and unhappy the disciples were and how they forgot all that the Lord had told them about what would happen. Then read the lesson from the Word and talk to them about the spiritual world and about death as the gateway to that world. The important thing is to emphasize the religious character of the Easter celebration.

---
You know that every year in the spring we celebrate Easter.

Christmas and Easter are the two great days in the Christian Church.

What did we celebrate on Christmas? The Lord lived in the world about thirty-three years. Last Sunday we learned how, at the beginning of the last week of His earthly life, He rode into Jerusalem as a king, welcomed by crowds of people. But you remember the people turned against Him very soon when they found He was not going to do the things they wanted, and the very next Friday they let His enemies put Him to death.

They put His body in a sepulcher or tomb hollowed out of a rock, and rolled a great stone in front of the entrance, and they sealed the stone and set a guard of Roman soldiers to make sure that no one should open it. They thought they had got rid of Him.

What happened on the first Easter morning?

Who came first to the sepulcher?

Why did they come?

What did they find?

What did the angel tell them?

To whom did the Lord show Himself first?

The Lord had to show Himself to all the disciples before they would believe that He had risen.

He had told them just what was to happen, but they would not believe Him. When He was crucified, they thought that all their hopes were ended.

But after they saw Him alive again, they understood what He had told them. The Lord's resurrection showed us that our life does not end at death.

It goes on forever.

This world is only the beginning of our life.

You know, of course, that each one of us will die someday, but we do not have to worry about it or be afraid, because the Lord showed us that death is nothing but going to sleep and waking up again just as we do every day. Only when we die, we wake up in the beautiful world which the Lord has prepared for us to live in forever, where there is no pain or sickness or trouble. There, if we have learned to be the loving, honest, useful people the Lord wants us to be, we shall be happy always. It was to teach us this that the Lord let Himself be put to death and then showed Himself to His disciples that first Easter day.

