
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
For this class the emphasis should be placed on the nature of materialism and how it closes the mind to spiritual enlightenment. The subtle influence of materialism in the world which they are about to enter should be pointed out to them so that they may be armed against it. Their answers to questions on the Easter story will suggest other points which need to be brought out for them.

---
We are told that when the Lord was crucified, all the disciples, those who had been with Him almost constantly for three years, forsook Him and fled. He had prophesied that they would do this, and there was a reason for it. Before they could go out and preach the Gospel, they had to be made to recognize fully their own weakness. We do nothing in our own strength. Self-confidence and pride in our own intelligence have no part in true missionary work.

There was one group of the Lord's followers, however, who did not desert Him, although they had no power to prevent His crucifixion. This was the women. The last verse of the fifteenth chapter of Mark shows them still at hand when His body was taken from the cross and placed in the sepulcher, and they were first to return to the sepulcher when the sabbath was over. Their love for the Lord had been based not so much on what He taught as on what He was, and there was no personal ambition in it as there was in that of the apostles. They still wanted to minister to Him. This was why they were the first to learn of the resurrection, and why Mary Magdalene, who loved Him most, was the first to see Him afterward. Even before they saw Him, they did not question the word of the "young man" who told them that He was risen. But the disciples would not believe until they themselves had seen Him.

This teaches us a lesson which we all need. The twelve apostles, like the twelve sons of Jacob, represent all the faculties we have which enable us to serve the Lord. They are all in us, Peter as the capacity to believe, Andrew as the capacity to obey what truth teaches, and so on. It is these capacities which enable us to be instructed by the Word and to bring our lives into order and finally to serve as the Lord's agents in the world. But we tend to be proud of these faculties, to expect praise and reward when we develop and use them, and to be easily discouraged when unexpected failure comes. Fortunately the women are in us, too, states of simple trust and affection remaining from our infancy and childhood, developed before we begin to reason and act for ourselves, and added to from time to time in our best moments. These are what carry us through periods of failure and discouragement and enable us to recognize the Lord in all that happens to us.

In our Palm Sunday lesson we saw that, while our natural reason is a necessary and useful faculty, it must be kept subject to the direction of truth from the Word. It was the natural reason — which sees only the earth side of things — that caused the complete discouragement of the disciples when the Lord was crucified. Although He had told them that He would rise on the third day, that assurance had meant nothing to them. For them death was still death, the end of everything. They had counted on Him and He had left them. As the two disciples on the way to Emmaus (Luke 24:13-35) said to the Lord before they recognized Him, "We trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel." Even after three years of personal association with Him they still thought of His kingdom in terms of this world.

We all begin our active careers in this same natural state of mind.

What happens to us in this world seems so important! We want to be good men and women and we know — theoretically — that virtue is more important than worldly success, that we are here to build for eternity, and that the Lord has told us that His kingdom is not of this world. But we are still very much of this world and our spiritual eyes are closed. Physical health, worldly learning, professional advancement seem to us the immediate and important things. It takes us a long time to realize that the "women" in us are wiser than the "men," that the Lord can make Himself known to us only as we cultivate states of humility, trust, and love for the divine qualities which are Himself.

The story of the resurrection teaches us this lesson. It teaches us, of course, many other things too, especially that life in this world is only the beginning of our life, the seed-time which leads to an endless harvest of good or evil fruit depending on how we form the seed. It teaches us that the spiritual world is real and near, not in some far-off star; that we wake in that world immediately, not on some far-off judgment day; that everyone wakes there the same person who went to sleep here, in a body in which he may be recognized even though it is not the physical body. It teaches us, as it finally taught the disciples, that everything the Lord said of Himself is true, that His character was the divine character and His voice the divine voice.

It was not a mere man, however good, whose life is recorded in the Gospels. It was not a second person in the Godhead, sent by another and mightier God to pay the price of man's sins. It was our heavenly Father Himself, showing us for a time by means of an earthly body as much as we can see and understand of His divine nature. And the record of His earthly life, which we know as the Gospels, was not any mere putting down by four men of what they remembered or had been told of His life. These facts were indeed in their memories, but they were drawn forth, arranged, and inspired by the Lord Himself just as the Word of the Old Testament was given by inspiration to the prophets and others. Unless we believe this we cannot see the Lord in it. The belief that the letter of the Word is the product of men's minds is the "stone which seals the sepulcher" for many today. The Gospel of Matthew 28:2 tells us that there was a great earthquake and that the angel of the Lord came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it. Sometimes it takes a great earthquake in a person's life to loosen the grip of materialism so that the heavenly messenger can roll back the stone and show him the empty tomb. On the first Easter morning the Lord rose in fact. He rises in us when we become willing to recognize that all real life is spiritual and not material, cease to think in terms of this world only, and begin to look to Him as our ever-living and ever-present Lord.

