
=== Adult

The background, history, and nature of the book of Psalms are the important subject for this class, touching briefly on the analysis of Psalm 19 by way of example. If there is time, it may be helpful at the end to ask each member of the class to tell what is his favorite Psalm and why.

In Luke 24:44 the Lord, after His resurrection, says to the assembled disciples, "These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me." Thus the Lord Himself assigned to the Psalms the same degree of inspiration which the Law and the Prophets possessed. And we read in 2 Samuel 23:1-2: "Now these be the last words of David. David the son of Jesse said, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said, The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue." The ancient Hebrews, probably because the Psalms were their temple songs and were not specifically concerned with their history, did not class them with the Law and the Prophets, but with the Kethubim or sacred writings, and that is where they are placed in the Hebrew Bible of today. We might note that the books of Lamentations and Daniel were also so classed, and that with the exception of these three books the New Church canon of (Old Testament) Scripture and the Jewish canon are identical.

In the 1880s the New Church Board of Publication issued in several small volumes a Manual of Religious Instruction prepared under the direction of a committee of the American New Church Sabbath School Association. Two volumes of this series, a brief outline of the history and general content of all the books of the Bible called Our Heavenly Father's Book, were written by the Rev. William B. Hayden. They are among the fine work of the past which we are in danger of losing through neglect. It would be hard to produce a more interesting brief statement concerning the book of Psalms than Mr. Hayden's; so it has seemed well to include in our present Sunday school material the bulk of his brief chapters on this book and on the "Music and Choirs of the Temple." Mr. Hayden says:

This collection of inspired sacred poems is placed in the Bible as one book, and has been so regarded since the days of Nehemiah, probably, or four hundred and twenty-five years before Christ. The Hebrew title, Tehillim, means Praises, or Songs of Praise. Our word Psalms is derived from Psalmoi (Psalmos, originally, the twang of a stringed instrument), the Greek of the Septuagint version. The term Psalter comes also from the Greek, Psalterion, through the Latin, Psalterium. (Psaltery was primarily the name of a species of harp.) It may be looked upon as an inspired Hymn Book. There are one hundred and fifty of these hymns, of different styles and length. They include a wonderful diversity of subjects, expressing every phase of religious feeling and experience; and are adapted to all the wants of private devotion, as well as to the public worship of the Lord in the sanctuary. They were originally intended and arranged for musical performance, with instrumental accompaniment.

The principal author is David, the King, "the sweet Psalmist of Israel"; and the whole book, as referred to in the New Testament, bears his name. Seventy-three psalms are ascribed to him in their titles; Asaph is named as the author of twelve; eleven are ascribed to the sons of Korah; to Solomon two (72 and 127); one to Ethan (89); and one to Moses (90). This last therefore is the oldest one in the collection, and in the original language bears every mark of being very ancient. The remaining fifty are anonymous; though it is highly probable that many of these also were written by David. They were all composed in close connection with the national sanctuary, and in the line of holy prophets and seers.

In the Hebrew Bible the collection is divided into five books, each one closing with a doxology except the last, to which, as well as to the whole collection, the final Psalm serves as a doxology.

The first book contains the first forty-one Psalms (1-41) and closes with the doxology, "Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting and to everlasting. Amen and Amen." Thirty-seven of these psalms bear the name of David; while the other four are usually ascribed to him, and no doubt correctly. The psalms in this book are remarkable for the predominance of the Divine name Jehovah (Lord) over that of Elohim (God). As before explained, this shows that in these psalms the operations of the Lord's love, mercy, goodness, compassion, tenderness, and forgiveness are principally treated of; and thus that their appeal is primarily to the human heart.

In this no doubt we have the original Hebrew Hymn Book, the first collection made for the service of the Jewish Church. It was most probably arranged by David himself, after he became King at Jerusalem, or under his supervision and authority, about one thousand years before Christ. ... Psalm 23 is presumed to have been composed by David, when, as a young man, he tended his father's flock at Bethlehem, as also 19. (It is believed by many that Psalm 2 was originally numbered 1, and that the psalm at present standing first, was prefixed as an introduction to the whole collection, at a much later date.)

The second book contains thirty-one psalms (42-72), ending with the doxology, "Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things. And blessed be his glorious name forever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and Amen. The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended." The first eight of these are ascribed to the sons of Korah; eighteen bear the name of David; one (50) that of Asaph. The last one (72) is sometimes attributed to Solomon, but seems rather to have been written for Solomon, perhaps a prayer and invocation at the time of his being anointed and proclaimed king by the command of David.

This book is believed to have been collected and added to the first in the reign of the good King Hezekiah, or about seven hundred years before the Christian era. In it the Divine name Elohim (God), greatly predominates over the name Jehovah: showing that in these psalms the operations of the Divine Wisdom and Truth are principally treated of, with His attributes of sovereignty, majesty, and power; while they appeal most directly to man's understanding and conscience.

The third book includes the next seventeen psalms (73-89). The first eleven are ascribed to Asaph; four to the sons of Korah; one to David (86); and one to Ethan the Ezrahite (89). In the psalms of Asaph the Divine name Elohim predominates, in the remainder of the book the name Jehovah. It closes with the doxology, "Blessed be Jehovah forevermore. Amen and Amen"; and is supposed to have been collected and added to the others in the reign of Josiah, about six hundred and twenty-five years before Christ.

The fourth book, opening with the prayer of Moses, Psalm 90, includes seventeen in all, to 106. Of these only three bear titles, 101 and 103 being ascribed to David. This book, therefore, is one emphatically of anonymous psalms, for the most part of a very general character, evidently arranged with reference to the service of song in the sanctuary, abounding in praise and thanksgiving. Throughout, the name Jehovah prevails; the name Elohim (God) being rarely used except in connection with a pronoun or some epithet, as my God, God of Jacob, etc. It is believed to have been compiled and added soon after the return from the Babylonish captivity, probably in the time of Ezra, and either by him or under the supervision of the great synagogue, a little more than four hundred and fifty years before Christ. It closes with the doxology, "Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting; and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the Lord."

The fifth book contains the remaining forty-four psalms, 107 to 150.

Psalm 107, the opening psalm of the return is supposed to have been sung at the first feast of tabernacles (Ezra 3). In this book are found the fifteen "Songs of Degrees," 120-134, presumed to belong to the period when the Jews under Nehemiah were repairing the walls of Jerusalem in the face of their enemies, and to have been sung by the workmen and guards while engaged in their duties. As Zerubbabel, and the prophets Haggai and Zechariah, were members of the great synagogue established by Ezra, the authorship of this book is mainly attributed to them. In the Septuagint, Vulgate, and Peshito versions, many of these psalms are ascribed to those prophets in their running titles. In this last collection the name Jehovah prevails almost exclusively. It is largely devoted to thanksgiving and praise, and closes with the ascription which has passed so widely into Christian usage, Hallelujah, "Praise ye the Lord. ... "

In the original language several of the psalms are arranged in alphabetical order. Each verse usually begins with a letter of the Hebrew alphabet, till all are gone over. This may be seen exemplified in Psalm 25, which has twenty-two verses, the number of letters in the Hebrew alphabet. There are seven of these psalms (Psalms 25, 34, 37, 111, 112, 119, 145). But they do not all carry out the plan regularly or fully. In Psalms 111 and 112 every half verse begins with a different letter. In Psalm 37 every alternate verse has such a beginning; while Psalm 119 has twenty-two divisions or cantos, each one of which begins thus, and in our Bibles has the names of the respective Hebrew letters written over them. Every couplet also of this psalm contains some reference to the Word of the Lord, under the several appellations of Word, Law, Precepts, Testimonies, Commandments, Judgments, and Statutes. ...

Several of the Hebrew words in the titles of some of the psalms refer to the musical performance. Neginoth means stringed instruments; Nehiloth, some wind instrument, like flutes. Alamoth, meaning virgins, probably denoted the treble voices. Selah, so frequent in the midst of psalms, is supposed by many to denote a pause or rest in the music; by others, however, with more probability, it is believed to have indicated the point at which the instruments were to lift up, joining in with the voices, which up to that place had been singing alone.

We read in Exodus of the song of triumph that was sung at the deliverance at the Red Sea, with the accompaniment of music and dancing. After this we find frequent allusions to it [music]. As described in the Bible, it is in connection with its true and most proper use, of praise and thanksgiving to the Lord, and the public worship of the sanctuary. The cultivation of it by the Levites was a part of their official training; while in the schools of the prophets founded by Samuel, it received marked attention and reached a high degree of development. In the days of David and Solomon, when the psalms had come to be written, and especially after the temple service began, the arrangements in connection with it were very elaborate and complete.

Of the thirty-eight thousand men who composed the tribe of Levi in the reign of David, four thousand were set apart for this service. The three great divisions of the tribe had each a representative family in the choir, or band; Heman and his sons represented the Kohathites, Asaph the Gershonites, and Ethan (or Jeduthun) the Merarites. As the functions were hereditary, and the members had ample leisure for the pursuit and practice of the art, great proficiency and genius were developed in certain families.

Over this great body of musicians presided the sons of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun, twenty-four in number, as heads of the twenty-four courses of twelve each into which the skilled minstrels were divided. These skilled or "cunning" performers were two hundred and eighty-eight in number, each having a number of pupils, or sub—choir under his immediate supervision. Each "course," or full band would thus consist of one hundred and sixty-six musicians presided over by a body of twelve skilled players or leaders, with one of the sons of Asaph, Heman, or Jeduthun as chief conductor of the whole.

The instruments employed covered a wide range. What they all were is not now in every instance known. Great ingenuity however was summoned to devise every possible form; and we know that each of the three most general kinds was represented in great variety: 

1. wind instruments, like the trumpet, cornet, and flute; 
2. stringed instruments, like the harp and psaltery; 
3. the instruments that are beaten, like the tambourine, cymbals, and triangle. 

The Hebrew names of many of these we still find written in the titles of our psalms.

The singers were a separate body from the instrumental performers, and seem to have included female voices, and to have been distributed into parts ... It is believed that children also were sometimes included. [See Psalm 68:25, Ezra 2:65, and 1 Chronicles 25:5-6, and also 1 Chronicles 16.]

When we think of the lifetime effort of these choirs, it should at least make us willing to put a little time ourselves into learning to sing the Psalms in the only way in which they can be sung, the chant form. Realizing that music is the expression of the heart, we should wish to sing as well as to read the Psalms.

One further point should be noted in regard to the Psalms in general, which Mr. Hayden does not mention. Our attention is called to it by the editor of Swedenborg's summary of the internal sense of the Psalms. He says: "The titles which appear in the common English Bibles at the head of many Psalms, in Roman type, are part of the sacred text, and contain an internal sense like every other portion of the Word of God, as is evident from their being referred to in these Summaries of the Internal Sense." This fact is seldom called to our attention.

The Psalm we read for our specific assignment today, Psalm 19, is, as Mr. Hayden has noted, one thought to have been composed by David in his youth when he was tending his father's flocks. The long night watches under the skies would set the current of divine inspiration in such a direction. Swedenborg's interpretation of it is as follows: "Verses 1-4 [the original Latin, following the Hebrew, says 1-5, counting the title as verse 1], The Divine truth will go forth in every direction. 5-6, This truth will go forth from the Lord from the first things to the last things of heaven and the church. 7-11, This Divine truth perfects man, because it is wisdom. 12-13, There will be no pride. 14, Thus there will be what is pure and acceptable." We notice that, although the subject of the Psalm is truth and its effects, only in the first verse is the name God (Elohim) used. Everywhere else it is Lord (Jehovah). This suggests that it is truth proceeding from love or good which has these effects in the human life. If we study this Psalm in the light of Swedenborg's brief interpretation of it, the familiar words will take on new and deeper significance for us. The last verse is a prayer we might all well say in the quiet moments before the opening of our church services.

