
=== Intermediate

The general purpose of the book of Psalms and the spiritual meaning and application of Psalm 19 are the points of emphasis for this class.

The books printed in our Bibles between 2 Kings and the Psalms are — like the book of Ruth, which we also omitted — interesting and valuable books, but not part of the New Church canon of the Word. The Jews do not consider the Psalms part of their most sacred literature either, but the Lord Himself gave them their place when He said that interiorly they treat of Him (Luke 24:44). It is this inmost connection with the Lord which makes a book part of the Word. The Jews probably hesitated to include the Psalms because they thought of them as their hymn book.

The Psalms are songs — songs of praise. Originally they were all sung. Many of them were written through David, who as we remember was called "the sweet psalmist of Israel." We remember also that he was known as a skillful player upon the harp or lyre. After David was anointed by Samuel (1 Samuel 16:13) it is said, "The Spirit of the Lord came upon David"; and among David's last words (2 Samuel 23:2) he said, "The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue." He knew that the words of the Psalms he wrote were inspired in his mind by the Lord.

Music is an expression of the emotions, and we cannot always put our feelings into words. In the Psalms the Lord puts into words for us all the many and varied feelings and thoughts which we have concerning Him and our relation to Him. That is why the Psalms are so much loved and why many of them are so well known. Even the most self-confident and thoughtless people have experiences which make them realize their need of the Lord, and sometimes their hearts can be reached through the Psalms.

Psalm 19, which we have especially for our lesson today, is entitled "To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David." It is possible that the words of this Psalm came into David's mind from the Lord while he was still a young man in Bethlehem guarding his father's sheep. He had been called from his inconspicuous shepherd's life to be anointed by Samuel and had had the experience of being given strength to kill a lion and a bear (1 Samuel 17:32-37). As he lay out under the stars at night, with the sheep all around him, we can imagine that he must often have thought about the wonderful things that had come to him through the spirit of the Lord. It is when we are thinking quietly about the meaning and purpose of our lives and our relation to the Lord that the Lord can come closest to us.

The natural heavens, with the sun, moon, and stars, do make us realize how great and wise and wonderful their Creator must be. But you remember from our lesson on the Creation story that the heavens picture the spiritual or heavenly plane of our minds, and that the sun, moon, and stars picture love to the Lord, faith in Him, and knowledges of heavenly things. It is these "heavens" within us which make us different from animals and able to come into the "image and likeness" of our heavenly Father. It is of these things — truths from the Lord through His Word — that the Psalm really speaks.

That is why, after apparently speaking of the sun of the natural heavens, the Psalm suddenly says, "The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul." It is the Lord's truth which converts or turns our souls away from selfishness and toward the Lord. The same law or commandment enlightens our eyes, that is, makes us able to understand the real meaning of life and of the things that happen to us.

What do you think the "fear of the Lord" is? It is certainly not the fear of punishment, for that would hardly be called "clean, enduring forever." The time when we are afraid of punishment is the time when we are doing wrong things, and it is not a happy time which we should wish to continue. And besides, we know that the Lord never punishes — evil punishes itself. No, the fear of the Lord of which the Psalm speaks is the holy fear of doing anything which would be against the Lord and the coming of His kingdom, anything that would separate us from Him. We can understand this from the way we feel toward our parents at different times. When we are in selfish, willful states, all we fear is punishment; but when we are in happy, unselfish states, we would do anything rather than hurt our parents because we love them so much. This is the good kind of fear we shall have even in heaven, which Psalm 111:10 tells us is "the beginning of wisdom." We are never wise except when we are good and loving. We know that. We often look back at our willful, selfish actions and wonder how we could have been so foolish.

Then in our Psalm (verses 10 and 11) we think how happy we are when we are good and obedient. In keeping the commandments "there is great reward." The Lord can give us all good things if only we will follow the way which He has showed us. But verses 12 and 13 remind us that we are naturally selfish and weak and need the Lord's help from day to day to search out the bad things in our hearts and minds and put them away from us. Verse 13 is a prayer for this help. We do not understand our own hearts very well. Sometimes we suddenly become willful and disagreeable without really knowing what started it, and afterward we cannot imagine why we behaved as we did. These are the "secret faults" and "presumptuous sins" which try to get control of us, and which we need to see and fight with the Lord's help.

The final verse of the Psalm is one which we should all learn and say often. It was the final prayer which the Lord put into David's mind after he had been meditating on all these things, and it is meant for us, too. If we think about it and say it often, it will help us to keep our hearts free from ugly, selfish feelings, and to keep our tongues from saying hasty, hurtful things. As you grow older, this Psalm will mean more and more to you and you will find many other Psalms which will help you in developing the heavenly character which the Lord wants you to have.

