
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The background of the book as a whole, the difference between the Jewish canon of Scripture and the New Church canon, and the facts about the temple choirs and bands will interest the Juniors, but be sure to spend part of the lesson time on the outline of Psalm 19, so that they will feel that they understand it.

---
You will notice that in taking up the book of Psalms at this time, we are passing by several books in our Bible. All these books, from 1 Chronicles through Job, are interesting and useful books which you will want to read someday, but they do not have an inner sense. They, as well as the books of Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Lamentations, and Daniel, were placed by the Jews among the Kethubim or Hagiographa, meaning the Sacred Writings. The Hebrew Bible consists of the Law (the five books of Moses), the Former Prophets (Joshua through 2 Kings, except Ruth), the Latter Prophets (Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Hosea through Malachi), and the Sacred Writings, which include all the other books of our old Testament. The Sacred Writings were not considered to be directly inspired like the Law and the Prophets. The Lamentations of Jeremiah are actually a continuation of the book named for him and are of equal inspiration, and the Lord Himself, by several statements in the Gospels, restored the Psalms and Daniel to the inspired Scriptures. See Luke 24:44 and Matthew 24:15.

The Psalms were used in the temple worship. We are told that in the days of the temple four thousand of the tribe of Levi were assigned to carry on the musical part of the service. They were divided into twenty-four "courses" of skilled musicians, each course serving in turn for one month out of every two years. In each course some were singers and some played upon instruments. They sang in parts, and women's voices as well as men's were used. And they had many different kinds of instruments: wind instruments such as trumpets, cornets, and flutes; stringed instruments such as the harp and psaltery; and percussion instruments such as the timbrel or tambourine, cymbals, and triangle. Read Psalm 68:25. The music was much simpler than most of ours today and the instruments more crude, but as these musicians spent much of their lives in instruction and practice, we can imagine that their performance was relatively as perfect as that of our finest choirs and orchestras today.

It is quite probable that the Jews hesitated to include the Psalms among their most sacred books because they were their "hymn book." But seventy-three of the Psalms are directly attributed to David and many others are traditionally believed to have been written through him, and we must remember that David in his last words said: "The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his word was in my tongue." Read 2 Samuel 23:1-2. David was called "the sweet psalmist of Israel."

A psalm is a "song of praise." Music is an expression of our feelings. We know that we often hum or sing or whistle without thinking about words at all. And we know that when we listen to music, it is our emotions which are affected, for often we find that we cannot even express afterward what we have felt. The Psalms were inspired by the Lord to give us a true form for expressing the feelings which we ought to have about the Lord and our relation to Him. So they have come to be perhaps the most read, most used, and most loved part of our Bible. They cover the whole range of religious feeling: awe, adoration, gratitude, humility, penitence, and prayer.

Some of the Psalms cover this whole series of emotions in a single Psalm. Such a one is Psalm 19, which we have chosen for our special study today. It is titled, "To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David." This would indicate not only that it was written through David, but that it was written down by him for the "chief musician" to be included in the hymn book being prepared for the service of the new tabernacle which David erected after he brought the ark to Jerusalem. The words may have been put into David's mind by the Lord after David was anointed by Samuel (1 Samuel 16:13) and while he was still in Bethlehem caring for his father's flock. We can imagine the young man, with the sheep all around him, lying out under the open sky looking up at the stars.

The Psalm expresses first our wonder at the perfection and order of the beautiful world the Lord has given us to live in. Day and night succeed each other without any planning or effort of ours, and everyone in the world sees these things and should be able to realize from this alone something of the greatness and glory of the Creator. Then with verse 7 we pass to the thought of all that the Lord's law, or truth, does in our souls and of how earnestly we should desire to know and to obey His judgments. And this brings us to a realization of how far short we fall of being what we ought to be, and to a desire to be shown our faults so that we can get rid or them.

The prayer in the last verse of the Psalm is one which we should all learn and repeat often. It is a prayer that we may be always true and good both inside and out in the sight of the Lord.

