
=== Notes for Parents

The Psalms constitute perhaps the best known and best loved book in the Bible. Psalm 23, the "Shepherd Psalm," has probably been learned by more Christians than anything but the Lord's Prayer. This is because it speaks of the Lord's protection and comfort, and when we are in trouble or bereavement — as we all are at one time or another — we inevitably turn to the Lord for help. He is our Creator and knows our states and needs as no merely human friend can, and we feel instinctively that we need Him. Even men who have professed not to believe in God at all have often been known to call upon Him in times of danger.

We should, however, look to the Lord for other things besides protection and comfort. We need Him just as much when our skies are bright and everything is easy for us. In fact those are the very times when we are most likely to forget Him and to let the "secret faults" and "presumptuous sins" of which Psalm 19 speaks gain dominion over us. We need the Lord's constant correction and guidance if we are to keep the words of our mouths and the meditation of our hearts acceptable in His sight. And this is, after all, the most important thing in life. What God thinks of us is much more important than what men think. The Psalms express for us all these needs of ours, and the more we read them the more deeply they will enter into our thought and life and the more the Lord can do for us through them.

When we look up at the stars at night and think of the wonderful order with which day and night follow each other and the world is maintained without any effort or planning of ours, it should make all of us realize how great and wise our Creator is and want to learn more all the time of His ways so that we may order our own lives in harmony with them. All our troubles and unhappiness come from thinking of ourselves first and trying to run our own lives without the Lord's guidance and help. The more whole Psalms we know, the more help we can get from them.

