
=== Primary

Connect the lesson with David and be sure the children know that the Psalms are meant to be sung and that the Lord gave us these songs to sing. Follow the notes and questions in the Primary notes as an outline. In talking of the meaning of Psalm 19 you can help the children to see that even at their age they can understand and use some of the Psalms.

Do you like to sing?

Do you ever sing when you are unhappy? No, we sing when we are happy. We pour out our happiness in our singing, and then other people know we are happy and that helps to make them happy too.

Do you know that in the Bible there is a whole book of songs?

It is called the book of Psalms, because a psalm means a song of praise. The Psalms are songs of praise to the Lord because He is so good to us. He made us all and He made the beautiful world for us to live in. He gives us our food and our clothing and our homes and every good thing we have. He wants us always to be happy; so He has given us His Word to teach us the way to happiness. We sometimes think that we would be happy if we could only have everything we want, but we ought to know better; for often when we get what we think we want, it does not make us happy at all.

The children of Israel loved to sing.

Do you remember how Moses sang after they crossed the Red Sea?

That was the way in which he naturally expressed his thanks to the Lord. The Psalms were inspired in the minds of David and others by the Lord and then written down to become part of the Word.

David was called the "sweet psalmist of Israel."

The Psalm we have for today is titled "To the chief musician, a Psalm of David." Perhaps the Lord had put the words into David's mind on some night when, as a young boy, he was sitting out under the stars guarding his father's sheep at Bethlehem.

When we think of the beautiful world the Lord has given us to live in, we can understand the words of this Psalm.

We know that the Lord's way is the right way. Then we remember how many faults we have. And then we can pray the last two verses.

Let us read the whole Psalm together.

