
=== Senior

After giving something of the general background of the book of Psalms, the teacher should concentrate on its use for our individual instruction and inspiration and in our worship, using Psalm 19 as an example and following Swedenborg's outline of its internal meaning.

---
We have been tracing the history of the children of Israel from their beginning with Abraham through their captivity in Egypt and return to the Holy Land to the height of their glory as a nation, and then their decline because of their own ingratitude and faithlessness until they were finally carried away captive.

Now we come to a book which has very little to do in its letter with the history of the Hebrew nation. Perhaps this is one reason why the Jews never ranked it with the Law and the Prophets, but classed it with the Hagiographa or Sacred Writings not directly inspired. Another reason probably is that the book of Psalms was the "hymn book" of the temple, not brought out to be read to the people, but in constant use in the musical part of the worship.

The Lord, however, said to His disciples after the resurrection that all things must be fulfilled "which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms" concerning Him (Luke 24:44). He named the Psalms with the Law and the Prophets as containing a meaning which applied to His life in the world. A few Psalms in the letter contain evident prophecies concerning His life. Psalm 22, from which He quoted on the cross, is such a one. But inmostly all the Psalms treat of the Lord and of the various states through which He passed when He assumed our finite human nature. It is this inmost sense which is the final proof of divine inspiration.

In their internal sense the Psalms describe the states of men in their relation to the Lord. We can find in the Psalms adequate expression for all the emotions which the thought of God excites in us. For the Psalms are songs, and music is the expression of the emotions. That is why the Psalms are so universally known and loved. Everyone finds something in them which appeals particularly to him. With the exception of the Lord's Prayer, the twenty-third Psalm is certainly the best—known part of the Bible. This is because the most universal craving of the human soul is for protection and comfort. But we should look to the Lord for other things besides these. We should seek His guidance, His judgment, and His correction. The Psalms which express the sense of our own sins and inadequacy are not so popular, but we need to read them even more often. And we need to be very familiar with the Psalms which are specifically songs of praise and thanksgiving, because it is the Lord who gives us all the good things we have and we need to keep this fact always in mind in order to avoid self-praise.

The Psalm chosen for our special study today is not a long one, but it follows a complete pattern of worship. We find its general interpretation in Swedenborg's "Summaries of the internal sense of the Prophets and Psalms," one of the manuscripts found and published after his death. It was apparently an outline of a proposed longer work. We may wish that the work could have been completed, but the outline is extremely helpful. Of Psalm 19 we find the following explanation:

Verses 1-4. The Divine truth will go forth in every direction.

5-6. This truth will go forth from the Lord from the first things to the last things of heaven and the church.

7-11. This Divine truth perfects man, because it is wisdom.

12-13. There will be no pride.

14. Thus there will be what is pure and acceptable.

From this outline we see that divine truth in its effects on the individual life is the subject of this Psalm from beginning to end. What seems in the letter to be a quite natural recognition of the Lord's handiwork in the order and beauty of the material universe is also a recognition of the universal application of divine truth. This understanding explains the apparently sudden shift of thought of our own weakness and inadequacy, so that the Psalm ends in a humble plea for the Lord's help in discovering and overcoming these weaknesses.

It is interesting to compare this Psalm with Psalm 111, which has a very similar pattern. We notice the same general thought throughout, but there is a difference in emphasis. In Psalm 19 we begin with the name God (Elohim) which, we remember, shows that the subject concerns divine wisdom, and, although in the rest of the Psalm the name Lord (Jehovah) is used, showing that divine love is the necessary motivating power, the Psalm is full of such "truth" words as speech, line, law, testimony, statutes, commandment. The Psalm begins with truth and carries through to love, "the meditation of my heart." In Psalm 111, on the other hand, the name Lord is used throughout and the striking words in that Psalm are "love" words such as works, righteousness, compassion, meat (food). This Psalm begins with love and carries through to truth, "a good understanding." This constant emphasis on the actual inseparability of good and truth is something to watch for in all our study of the Word. Good desires are helpless without truth by which to bring them into right expression and act, and truth without the desire to act according to it is turned to falsity.

Seventy-three of the Psalms are attributed by their titles to David, and many of the others are believed to have been given through him. Swedenborg always gives references to this book under the title of David. But many scholars attribute some of the Psalms to other writers, and we may note that Psalm 90 is entitled "A Prayer of Moses, the man of God," and that Swedenborg considered the titles of the Psalms inspired. However, he makes no direct allusion to this title in the writings. The book of Psalms is generally divided into five "books," each book closing with a doxology. The division is as follows: Psalms 1-41, 42-72, 73-89, 90-106, and 107-150. The first book was probably arranged under David's supervision for use in the new tabernacle he erected after he brought the ark to Jerusalem. The second book is believed to have been collected and added under King Hezekiah, the third under King Josiah, and the fourth and fifth after the return from captivity.

