
=== Intermediate

The lesson for this class is the correspondence of Israel and Judah and their separation, and the correspondence of the Jordan and the rivers of Damascus. Explain that profanation is knowing the truth and turning it to selfish purposes instead of obeying it.

The kings of Israel were all wicked kings. Most of their reigns were short, and some of them were murdered by their own followers. No one family could keep the kingship long. And enemies from without were constantly threatening. This is a picture of the restlessness and dissatisfaction which prevail in the worldly mind.

The Lord sent great prophets to Israel to rebuke and warn both the kings and the people. You recall the wonderful stories about Elijah which we have recently had; and you remember how, when Elijah was taken up into heaven by a chariot and horses of fire, his mantle and power fell to his follower, Elisha. The story of Elisha runs from chapter 2 through chapter 13 of 2 Kings. Our chapter for today is just one incident in this story.

The Syrians at this time were a wealthy and powerful people bent on conquering the world. Their capital was the great city of Damascus. Syria pictures the knowledge of truth and good, but when it is an enemy of Israel it means that this knowledge has been turned to selfish purposes. The rivers of Damascus are the ideas which are current in such a state of mind, ideas of how best to get along in the world. Naaman was a principal servant of the king of Syria, captain of his army. He is pictured as a good man, but a leper. Our natural powers are the good servants who work for us, whatever our character may be. Leprosy was a terrible disease, characterized by lifelessness of the skin. The skin at first appeared extremely white, but as the disease progressed, decay set in so that sometimes the hands and feet and even the features of the face would rot and drop off. Leprosy pictures a state in which there is no spiritual life — no real goodness — in what we do. We may put on an appearance of doing good, but it is only superficial and does not last. Sometimes, however, people in this state, like Naaman, realize their condition and long to change, to become really good all through. Naaman, coming from outside the Holy Land, pictures the good Gentiles who have never had an opportunity to learn about the Lord.

The Lord always helps those who sincerely want to know what is right. They are led to the Word — often, it seems, as if by chance. The little maid brought captive out of the land of Israel was such a seeming chance. She had been in contact in her early childhood with the knowledge of the prophet in Israel and cared enough for her master to tell him where he might find a cure for his leprosy. You remember that the prophets always represent the Word. Naaman went first to the king of Israel, as people turn to the teachings of some church which seems to be the leading one, expecting to find guidance there. But if the church has become worldly and has lost its touch with the Word and its dependence upon the Word, as the king of Israel had forgotten the very existence of Elisha, it is powerless to help. Elisha had to remind the king. Then Naaman went to Elisha.

Elisha told Naaman to go and wash in Jordan seven times. We remember that the Jordan, the boundary of the Holy Land, pictures the truths we must know and obey if we are to enter into heavenly states of living — particularly the ten commandments. Naaman at first thought that the Abana and the Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, were better than the Jordan; that is, that the worldly ideas he had had before were more important than keeping the commandments. But, when his servants urged him to try the simple advice, he decided to make the experiment, and he was healed. Elisha's taking no reward for the healing is a picture of our recognition of the fact that it is the Lord always who does the good, not ourselves.

The result of wishing to be praised and rewarded for the good we do is pictured in the story of Gehazi. He became a leper because the desire for reward and praise takes all spiritual life out of our good works.

