
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Use a map of the divided kingdom as the basis of discussing the introductory material. If your class has at hand a map of the Holy Land as divided among the tribes, the two maps may be compared. Point out Syria and Damascus. In the story of Naaman the Juniors can be given something of the spiritual meaning, as suggested in the last part of their notes. Water as truth is one of the easiest correspondences to make clear, and the difference between the Jordan and the rivers of Damascus follows. Explain also what leprosy is and what it represents.

---
At the very beginning of his reign Jeroboam made a disastrous mistake. He was afraid that if his people went to the temple at Jerusalem to worship and to take part in the great feasts every year, they might be persuaded to return to the rule of Rehoboam. So he set up two golden calves, one at Bethel in the southern part of his kingdom and the other at Dan in the far north; and he established regular worship of these idols with sacrifices and feasts to satisfy the people. As a result the people of Israel were turned away from the Lord, and all sorts of wickedness prevailed. The kingship in Israel did not stay long in one family. Several of the kings were murdered by their own servants, and many of the reigns were very short. Again and again we read of the new king: "And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin." There was not a single king of Israel who was called good. And the enemies of Israel soon began to take advantage of this condition.

We have had three lessons about the great prophet Elijah, whom the Lord sent to rebuke and warn the people of Israel, including the story of how Elijah was finally taken up into heaven by a chariot and horses of fire, and how his mantle fell from him upon Elisha, who had been his follower and had been promised a double portion of his spirit. Elisha continued Elijah's work.

Our lesson for today is part of the story of Elisha. At this time Syria, a strong nation to the northeast of Israel, was getting the upper hand, making raids and carrying off the treasures of the kingdom and even some of the people. The capital of Syria was the great city of Damascus. Study a map to see how the Holy Land was divided, where the two capitals were, where the two golden calves were set up, and where this new enemy was located.

Who was the captain of the army of the king of Syria?

What disease did he have?

Who told him how he might be cured?

What did the king of Syria do for him?

What did the king of Israel do when he read the letter?

You see, the king never thought of Elisha. People today, when they find themselves in trouble, often forget that the Lord has given us his Word to heal our ills. They try everything and even despair before it occurs to them to ask the Lord's help.

What did Elisha tell Naaman to do?

The Jordan, which people had to cross to enter the Holy Land, pictures the truths which the Lord tells us are necessary if we are to enter the heavenly life. Look up Matthew 19:17. The Jordan as the entrance to the Holy Land pictures the ten commandments. So Elisha's advice to Naaman means that if we want our souls to be healthy, we must first of all keep the commandments. And it is not enough to keep them once: we must form the habit of keeping them. This is what is meant by Naaman's washing in Jordan seven times.

The nations which were Israel's enemies did not recognize the Lord. They represent the people who think only of succeeding in the world. The Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, picture maxims developed by worldly thought, such as, "You have to look after yourself first," and "You can't mix business and religion." These sound sensible, and many people like them much better than the ten commandments. Naaman thought the Abana and Pharpar were better rivers than the Jordan.

Who persuaded him to try Elisha's remedy?

What happened?

Of what did this convince Naaman?

Did Elisha accept the reward Naaman offered him?

What did Naaman ask him for?

What did Elisha's servant try to do?

What was his punishment?

Gehazi's sin of taking pay for Naaman's healing teaches us that we must never take credit to ourselves for any good we do. It is always the Lord, working through us, who does the good. Gehazi became a leper because the disease of leprosy pictures trying to appear good when we are really selfish, that is, doing right for what we can get out of it.

