
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the insidious nature of worldly reasoning and the deterioration of the character when once we admit into our minds doubt of the binding nature of the commandments. Steady obedience to the Word is the essence of the lesson, and young people preparing to go out into the world especially need this lesson.

---
In the fourth chapter of Luke, when the people of Nazareth asked the Lord to prove His power by performing miracles there in the town where He had grown up, He cited to them two Old Testament stories to show that in the Lord's sight the good Gentiles might be more capable of being healed than the "chosen" people.

One was the miracle which Elijah performed for the widow of Zarephath and the other was our story for today — the story of the healing of Naaman the Syrian by Elisha. Elijah and Elisha, as prophets of the Lord, both represent the Word.

In the Word Syria pictures knowledges of good and truth, but in our story Syria has become the enemy of Israel. When such knowledge as we have is turned to selfish and worldly purposes, it can do us harm rather than good. This is indicated by Naaman's leprosy. Leprosy pictures the state in which good is done for the sake of getting along better in the world. There is no spiritual life in such good.

But many people grow up in environments where this idea prevails and, like the Gentiles who know nothing of the Word, accept it from ignorance of anything better. Naaman was in good repute with his master, and he was evidently kind to his servants, or the little maid would not have felt free to offer advice. He was prepared to pay generously for his cure. And, once convinced, he was willing to change his allegiance from his former gods to the Lord. In other words, he was a good Gentile and so could be healed.

In contrast to him was the king of Israel, who did not even remember the existence of the Lord's prophet at a time when he most needed him. He represents the worldly principle prevailing in the mind of a person brought up in the church, whereas the little maid who had been taken captive to Syria represents the remains of childhood affection for the Word preserved by the Lord for this same time of need.

Elisha's command to wash in Jordan seven times is the command to cleanse our lives by obeying the commandments persistently until they become our habitual rule of life. The hard part for us, as for Naaman, is to admit that the commandments are greater than the precepts of the world, and to humble ourselves to obey them. But only by so doing can we make our lives really clean and sound.

There are more interesting details in this story than can possibly be taken up in one lesson. The little maid carried off from Israel into Syria and surviving there to save her master is a beautiful picture of our innocent childhood states stored up within us to lead us later in the way of repentance and regeneration. Elisha's permission to Naaman to go with his master when he went into the temple of the God Rimmon pictures the Lord's mercy in recognizing our human frailty. It reminds us of the parable of the unjust steward. Gehazi's sin and its punishment remind us that we must never take credit to ourselves for the good the Lord is able to do through us, for just to the extent that we do accept credit we ourselves are spiritual lepers.

