
=== Adult

This is a very important lesson for the Adults because it describes and analyzes a temptation which we are all subject to right up to the end of our lives, and perhaps more especially we of the New Church. We can make no compromise between belief in the Lord and the Word and acceptance of worldly reasonings, and we should teach ourselves to examine the ideas of modern churchmen and Bible students to see which of them are really valid and which are based on rejection of the Lord and the Word. Elijah's words in 1 Kings 18:21 are addressed to us.

We are coming to the closing chapters of the history of the ancient Hebrew church. Let us pause to review briefly the outline of this history: the beginning in the call of Abraham to leave his own country and his father's house and go to the land of Canaan; the gradual development and growth through Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; the settlement in Egypt under Joseph; the bondage, the call of Moses, the deliverance, and the wilderness journey, during which the commandments were given, the tabernacle built, and the twelve tribes molded into a nation; the initial conquest of the Holy Land under Joshua; the confused period of the Judges, when "every man did that which was right in his own eyes" and they fell into one difficulty after another; the transition under Samuel when they were brought back to the worship of the Lord: and finally the period of the kings, when under Saul, David, and Solomon they were brought into order, conquered all their enemies, captured Jerusalem, built the temple, and became for a short time a powerful, peaceful nation to whom other nations paid tribute.

It is not hard to see in this outline the story of the spiritual development of a man or woman from the first childish consciousness of the necessity of doing right instead of merely having one's own way, through the experiences of early education and development, the temporary bondage to natural knowledges and pleasures, the long and often painful and protesting struggle to bring the external life into order according to the commandments, the long-sought establishment in the land of spiritual living, the temptation to be satisfied with half—conquest and to compromise with one's deeper evils instead of rooting them out, the gradual unifying of the life by means of the adoption of ruling principles of a more and more interior character, until one tastes the power and peace which come only to a life inmostly devoted to the service of the Lord.

But this is not the end. Such states do come to regenerating men and women even in this life, but they pass. They are only foretastes of heavenly happiness. We need these states, but we cannot remain in them because we are always finite and imperfect. Our ideal, the Divine Humanity, is eternally ahead of us; our test is in Him — not in ourselves. So with every victory are associated new temptations, exposing deeper evils in us and opening the way — if we are faithful — for new conquests. We are told (1 Kings 11:1) that King Solomon loved many foreign women and in verse 4 that "it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God." The realization and enjoyment of victory and peace have performed their use, and the Lord permits evil once more to appeal to our affections, exposing some weakness of which we have not been conscious and starting us on a new spiritual task.

Swedenborg tells us that Israel represents the spiritual or "thinking" side of the church and Judah the celestial or "loving" side of the church in general or in the individual (@AC 4292), the relation to the Lord of the understanding and of the will. Many interesting things are said of the reason for the division of the kingdom with reference to the Israelitish Church as a representative church (see especially @AC 8770), but we are trying rather to relate the stories of the Word to the individual life. The history of the divided kingdom is the history of adult life. We all know from experience that desire and understanding do not always go together. We have good desires which we do not have the knowledge to carry out in act, and we have bad desires which we know better than to carry out. We ourselves are often in a "divided" state, desire pulling one way and judgment another. When desire and reason go hand in hand there is satisfaction and accomplishment, but if we remain too long in that state we slip into self-satisfaction and self-indulgence. These lead to division again, for it is in the divided state that we acquire new truths which point out our selfish feelings. The Lord has provided for this sort of division in order to make it possible for us to change. Our natural desires are selfish. If our thoughts were always in complete subjection to them, we should always think only the things which suited our selfish purposes, and the Lord could not reach us. However, the separation of thought and affection should be temporary, always looking toward reunion on a higher plane. When we have good desires, we should seek the wisdom to carry them out. When we learn new truth, we should cultivate the desire to put it in practice. A good desire which does not seek its appropriate knowledge not only fails to accomplish anything good but also rapidly degenerates into self-love, while truth which we are satisfied merely to know still more quickly becomes lost in the realm of fruitless reasonings. It was because Israel and Judah remained stubbornly separate that both were eventually taken captive.

Ahab was the seventh ruler of the separate kingdom of Israel.

He was not a descendant of its first king, Jeroboam. In fact, the reigning house in Israel had already been changed by violence three times. When our thought life is separated from its true purpose of serving for the growth of spiritual character, it is easily upset by every new and revolutionary idea. The kings of Israel had been uniformly evil, but it is written of Ahab that he "did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him." He not only continued the worship of the golden calves, which Jeroboam had set up, but he married Jezebel, daughter of the king of the Zidonians, who worshiped Baal, and set up a temple and altar to Baal in Samaria itself, which his father had made capital of Israel. The worship of Baal pictures the perversion of worship of the Lord into worship of self. The writings tell us (@AE 159) that Jezebel represents the delight of the loves of self and the world or "the church completely perverted," and (@AE 324[21]) that the worship of Baal represents worship from the loves of self and the world. So under Ahab — in our correspondence — the thought life has degenerated further than the setting up of "external good works" - the golden calves — as the highest good, and has come to consider self-gratification the object of life. Then drought and famine came. When once we make up our minds that the object of life is to serve self, our minds are shut against truth from the Lord and everything in us which can nourish spiritual life dies. "No Divine truth flowing in out of heaven could be received because of the falsities of evil, which were signified by 'other gods' and by 'Baal,' whom they worshiped." (@AE 644[8]) The falsities of evil are the perverted reasonings which always spring up in our minds when we want to defend our selfish desires. We all know how we close our minds against good advice when we are bent upon having our own way. Under these conditions there could be neither dew nor rain in the land. In this crisis the Lord sent Elijah. The mission of a prophet was always to denounce evil and prophesy its punishment and to encourage the good by promising reward. Consequently the prophets were always hated by the evil and cherished by the good. We know that there were many other prophets besides those whose sayings are recorded in the Word; in chapter 18 we read of a hundred prophets whom Obadiah saved from Jezebel. The Israelites doubtless received much direct instruction as to their external conduct from such prophets throughout their history. But those whose sayings found place in the Word transmitted a message of permanent and universal import. Of these Elijah is one of the most important, so important that he is used throughout the Word as a symbol of the prophetical parts of the Word. We recall that Moses and Elijah, symbolizing the Law and the Prophets, were seen talking with the Lord at His Transfiguration. Swedenborg tells us that in the Word as it is in the heavens, in place of the name Elijah appears "the prophetical Word" (@DSS 71). In our lives Elijah stands for the Word prophesying, denouncing evil, showing us what the results of our evils will be if we persist in them, and showing us also the rewards of a good life. In the New Testament John the Baptist performs the same office and is called "Elias [Elijah] which was for to come" (Matthew 11:14). Today we do not need prophets in the flesh because we have the Word. The Word tells us all we need to know. If we do not reach the heavenly life, it is not because the Lord has failed to warn us just as He did not fail to warn Ahab through Elijah.

Elijah was preserved by the Lord at first in the land itself beside the little stream Cherith. The ravens which fed him represent the most natural thoughts about right and wrong which, though not true, can be used by the Lord to maintain some spiritual life. We recall that a raven was first sent out by Noah after the ark came to rest on Mount Ararat. When the stream dried up, Elijah was sent outside the land until the time was ripe for his return. In the same way, the Lord always preserves in us something of the Word, keeping it alive as long as possible in our active consciousness and then in the external region - "the back of our minds" - whence it can be recalled when we become desperate over our condition. A widow represents one who wants to be good but lacks truth. In the state of our life pictured by Israel under Ahab, a widow outside the Holy Land represents perhaps some little remainder of kindly feeling of an external type, something which can be appealed to, and with which there is, like the widow's son, some seed which may grow into spiritual life. Elijah found the widow almost dead, gathering two sticks with which to prepare her last meal and oil. This represents a time when there is almost no nourishment left even for the the promptings of external kindliness. Elijah gave her a strange command: "Make me thereof a little cake first," meaning: "Do something, however small, in recognition of the Lord, and the little remains of goodness will be tided over and maintained until the way is again opened for truth to enter the life." Many people who have no real knowledge of the Lord and who in general lead self-satisfied and self-centered lives still hold in their memories a verse here and there from the Word which may from time to time influence their actions. The Golden Rule is perhaps the commonest of these. Do we not see in such instances Elijah preserved by the widow of Zarephath and in turn preserving her? Not uncommonly we are allowed to see the working out of the rest of the story. The widow's son died, picturing a time when life suddenly becomes empty and useless, when a person sees no possible happiness in the future. Then the Word which has remained with him shows its power and renews his spiritual life by lifting up what he had thought dead and restoring it. He recognizes the power and its Source and turns to the Lord. However worldly and selfish we become, however persistently we shut out the voice of the Lord speaking to us through His Word, divine providence preserves Elijah somewhere on the outskirts of our minds so that to the very end of our life in this world there may be some little opportunity left for us to hear and repent.

The time came when even Ahab was forced to look for water.

He took with him his servant, the God—fearing Obadiah, and it is significant that in their search Ahab went one way and Obadiah another, and it was Obadiah who found Elijah and brought Ahab to him. Ahab's greeting was, "Art thou he that troubleth Israel?" Self-interest always finds the voice of the Word troubling. Then follows the test. The people were summoned to Mount Carmel — picturing the fact that the whole mind must be lifted up where it can see and judge clearly in spiritual light. Elijah stated the issue clearly: "How long halt ye between two opinions? if the Lord be God, follow him: but if Baal, then follow him." This is the fundamental issue which the Word places before every one of us. Love to the Lord and love of self are diametrically opposed to each other. If we choose to serve the Lord, we must put self-interest out of our considerations; if we choose to serve self, we must not expect any of the blessings promised to those who serve the Lord. We cannot serve the Lord on Sunday and self the other six days. We cannot serve self until we have made a fortune and then make up for it by building a church or endowing a hospital. If we say we believe in the sole Deity of Jesus Christ, we must study His life and follow Him, instead of thinking we or other men know better than He what the wise life is. If we say we believe the @DSSs to be the veritable Word of God, we must accept them as providentially given and preserved and not try to change them to suit men's ideas of what the Lord ought to have said. In our story, when Elijah declared the alternative, the people did not know what to answer. If we listen for any length of time to the promptings and demands of worldly and selfish reasoning, we become confused and hesitate to make the choice boldly.

There were many prophets of Baal but only one prophet of the Lord — many false ways but only one true one. The voices of worldly reasoning are many and loud. The prophets called upon Baal all day. They jumped about and even cut themselves with knives and lancets. Of a prophet we suspect to be false we may at times hear someone say, "He must be right. Think how hard he has worked, how he has given his whole life to the study of this thing!" But the fire from heaven does not fall upon the sacrifices of those who do not worship the Lord. The fire from heaven is the Lord's unselfish love coming into the heart, which alone can give happiness. Those who look to self and to human intelligence for direction are never satisfied.

Elijah repaired the altar of the Lord which was broken down.

He built his altar of twelve stones. We must return to the worship of the Lord and accept all the truths of the Word as necessary to genuine goodness. We must prepare our sacrifice according to the Lord's order, doing whatever good we do in His name and not in our own. Then we may let men argue about it all they like, as Elijah allowed them to drench the sacrifice with water until the water ran all around the altar: it will make no difference. For when we call upon the Lord, He will hear and crown our efforts with happiness and peace, which are the evidence of His presence. The people who are happy are those who do not think of themselves but who look upon life as an opportunity to serve the Lord. We are happy when we have forgotten ourselves in love for the Lord's work. If we will go up to Carmel and observe the test, we shall have no doubt of the truth.

Then the people were ordered to take all the prophets of Baal and let not one of them escape, "and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and slew them there." When we have really seen that the Lord is the only one worthy of our service, we must search out all the false reasonings which have defended our self-love and destroy them in the light of truth from the Word. Then Elijah told Ahab to eat and drink. Our "individuality," which has led us so far astray, is allowed to recover strength so that when the rain begins — when truth again flows into the mind from the Word — we may go forward to a new spiritual state.

