
=== Intermediate

Something can be done with the meaning of Solomon's temptation and its results, stressing especially the weaning away of Israel from worship at Jerusalem. The protection of Elijah by the Lord, the meaning of the drought and famine, the return of Elijah when Ahab had been brought to a humble state of mind, and the meaning of the suggested test are all powerful lessons and easy to present.

---
The reign of Solomon presents an ideal of heavenly life. Under him the ancient Hebrews enjoyed their greatest prosperity and prominence. But this state could not last. The Word gives us teaching for life. Our lives are not a continual upward progress. We know that no sooner have we gained the victory over one temptation than we find ourselves faced with another. Every victory has its inherent temptation, the temptation to be self-satisfied and to imagine that we are now strong enough to do as we please.

During the latter part of Solomon's reign his very prosperity and grandeur led him to take wives of many nations, to build temples to their gods, and to burden his people with heavy taxes in order to keep up all his glories. So the seeds of division were sown. And at last even Solomon himself fell into idolatry. Only when we reach heaven can a state of lasting peace be attained. Here in this world, if our characters are to grow, we must always be discovering new and deeper evils in ourselves to be fought and overcome.

After Solomon's death the kingdom split in two. Judah, the southern kingdom, remained under the kingship of Solomon's line and kept its capital at Jerusalem. Israel, the northern kingdom, took Jeroboam as its king, setting up its capital first at Shechem and later at Samaria. Israel and Judah represent the two parts of our natures, the understanding and the will. When these are in agreement, we are at peace; but unfortunately we often find them at war. We never wholly desire what our minds see to be right, and often we desire to do right but fail because of wrong ideas in our minds. So most of the rest of the Old Testament story, until the coming of the Savior, is a story of two warring kingdoms, each having a succession of kings and both eventually falling captive to their enemies. Judah had some good kings but the kings of Israel were uniformly evil. This pictures the fact that we sometimes mean well even after our ideas have become false. The particular evil which caused havoc was the setting up of false gods, as in our lives it is the tendency to serve self and to fall in line with the ideas of those in the world around us. The people of Israel and Judah were weak because they forsook Jehovah, in whom alone was their strength. We are weak whenever we turn away from the Lord.

Jeroboam, in order to keep his people from going up to Jerusalem to worship, set up two golden calves, one in Bethel and one in Dan, and established this worship for Israel. This pictures the setting up of "natural" goodness and learning and worldly success above the things of the spirit. We recall that Shechem and Bethel were the sites of Abraham's first two altars. Now they are wholly perverted. The history of Israel is the history of violence and of frequent changes in the royal line. The evil is constantly traced to the setting up of the golden calves. It is said repeatedly of the successive kings of Israel, "He walked in all the ways of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin."

Elijah appeared in the reign of Ahab, one of the most powerful and most idolatrous of the kings of Israel. Ahab had a long and outwardly prosperous reign. Secular historians consider him one of the greatest of the kings, but the letter of Scripture gives him no praise. He married Jezebel, daughter of the king of the Zidonians, who has come to be regarded as one of the most wicked of all the women of history. She led Ahab and the people of Israel into the worship of Baal, which pictures self-love ruling.

Israel under Ahab and Jezebel pictures our minds when they are governed by false and selfish principles. We have come to set up ourselves above everything else. When our minds are in such a state, we want to forget the teachings of the Word of God. Elijah, the prophet of the Lord, represents the Word. Ahab and Jezebel tried to destroy Elijah, but the Lord preserved him, first at the brook Cherith near the Jordan as long as there was any water in the brook, and then at Zarephath, far to the north on the Mediterranean Sea, which pictures what we might call the "back of our minds." Perhaps we imagine that we are never in the extreme state pictured by Israel in this story; but we really are in it every time we are bent on having our own way, arguing in favor of ourselves and closing our eyes to the truth we know which forbids what we want to do.

Elijah's first appearance in the Bible story is with the prophecy of drought and famine. When self becomes the center of our thought and life, no "rain of truth" from the Lord can fall into our minds and no "fruit of goodness" can grow in our acts. But after a while we begin to realize that having our own way is not making us happy after all. Nothing seems to be prospering with us. Our "land" is dry and barren. Then of our own accord we begin to try to find out what is really wrong with us. Ahab set out to find water. And that is just where the Lord can begin to help us again. Ahab had a servant named Obadiah who "feared the Lord greatly." In each one of us, however far we may stray from the right, there is a memory-knowledge of right on which we depend to keep our conduct in some external order, as Obadiah was "over the house" of Ahab. It is by means of this memory that the Lord speaks to us. It is easy to see why, in their search for water, Ahab and Obadiah went in different directions and why it was Obadiah who found Elijah. Elijah told Ahab to gather all the prophets of Baal at Carmel for a test. Carmel is a high promontory overlooking the Mediterranean at one end and the valley of Jezreel or Esdraelon at the other. This valley was the site of many crucial battles — including that between the armies of Barak and Sisera. The ascent to Carmel is a picture of raising our thoughts to a plane where we can view all our accumulated knowledge and all our past experience in temptation and victory, and so freely reason out the problem of allegiance to self or to the Lord.

The prophets of Baal, the arguments in favor of self, worked hard, but they could draw no fire from heaven. Fire from heaven is unselfish love, which alone can give us happiness. Only obedience to the commandments, Elijah's altar of twelve stones, brought this fire from heaven — in spite of all the arguments against it, pictured by the barrels of water. When we see this and determine to turn from selfishness and serve the Lord, our land is once more watered by the rain and again becomes fruitful.

