
=== Junior

After your introduction, follow with the story of Elijah, using a map to locate the brook Cherith, Zarephath, Carmel, and Jezreel. (Note, however, that the location of the brook Cherith has never been exactly fixed.) Have the class look up and read Luke 4:24-26. (Sarepta [KJV] is the Greek form of Zarephath). The correspondence of the worship of Baal, of the drought and consequent famine, and of the fire from heaven can easily be understood by children of this age, and the meaning of the choice offered and of the test and its result is an important lesson.

---
Who was the third great king of all Israel?

What does his name mean?

What did he ask of the Lord?

What did the Lord also give him?

What did he build?

Even Solomon's great wisdom did not insure him against temptation. In his later years he did something which led to the breaking up of his kingdom. He was so great that he could have anything he wanted, and so he married a great many wives, women of different nations and religions. Then he built them temples for the worship of their gods, and naturally this led other people away from the worship of Jehovah and so divided and weakened the nation. And finally even Solomon himself began to worship these other gods. It took a great deal of money and manpower to do all this and to keep up the grandeur of Solomon's court, and this meant that the people were heavily taxed and began to be dissatisfied.

When Solomon died and his son Rehoboam came to the throne, the people asked him to lighten their burden. The old men advised him to do as the people asked, but the young men urged him to show his power by increasing the burdens instead. He listened to the young men, and the people rebelled and the kingdom was divided, only the southern part, called Judah, remaining faithful to the line of Solomon. Judah kept its capital at Jerusalem and continued the worship in the temple. But the ten tribes in the northern part of the land set up a kingdom which they called Israel, making Shechem their capital and taking Jeroboam, a former general under Solomon, as their king. In order to keep them away from Jerusalem, Jeroboam set up two golden calves for them to worship, one in Bethel and the other in Dan.

When Jeroboam set up the golden calves, it was prophesied that his line should not continue on the throne of Israel. This prophecy was fulfilled, but the later kings continued the worship of the golden calves and brought in the worship of other idols as well. Many of them were killed by violence, and the royal line changed many times. Our lesson today is about the most wicked king of them all.

What was his name?

What was the name of his wife?

What god did they worship?

What great prophet was sent to warn Ahab?

Ahab and Jezebel blamed Elijah for the drought which followed, but the Lord took care of him.

Where did he hide first?

Who brought him food?

When the brook dried up, where did the Lord send Elijah?

What did Elijah ask the widow to do?

What did he promise her?

What other wonderful thing did he do for her?

Look up Luke 4:25-26 to see how long the drought lasted. (Elias is the Greek form of Elijah and Sarepta the Greek form of Zarephath.) Look up Zarephath on a map and also see how the country was divided after Solomon's death.

The Lord saw that suffering had made the people — even Ahab — willing to listen to Him. Read from the Word the story of Elijah's return and meeting with Obadiah (1 Kings 18:1-16). Even evil men may have good servants. When we are in selfish states, our "good servants" are the memories we have of what we have been taught about right and wrong, especially from the Word. It was through the good Obadiah that Elijah could reach the ear of Ahab.

Look up Carmel on the map. It is a long ridge. One end of it juts out into the sea and the other end overlooks the plain of Esdraelon or Jezreel, through which the brook Kishon runs. It was at this brook long before that Deborah and Barak overcame the army of Sisera.

Read carefully from the Word 1 Kings 18:21-24, which tells of the test Elijah proposed to the people. The worship of Baal represents putting ourselves first in everything we do. Sometimes people are willing to work very hard and even to suffer in order to gain selfish ends. This is like the prophets of Baal, jumping about all day and calling on Baal and even cutting themselves with knives. The prophets of Baal are all the thoughts and arguments that try to make us believe that it is right to be selfish. See if you can think of some of these arguments.

What did Elijah build?

Read carefully 1 Kings 18:31-35 about his preparations. He wanted to prove to the people that nothing they could do would interfere with the Lord's answer.

What happened when he called upon the Lord?

The fire from heaven is a picture of the Lord's love — unselfish love — which always comes down into our hearts when we offer what we have to Him instead of thinking of ourselves in everything we do. Unselfish love is the only thing which really brings happiness. Selfish people sometimes have fun for a short time, but they soon begin to want something else and are never truly satisfied or happy. If we stop to think, we can all see that this is so, just as the people acknowledged the Lord when they saw the fire come down.

When the people were ready to worship the Lord again, the rain came. You remember that water pictures truth. Rain from heaven is the Lord's truth coming down to us. When we turn away from our selfish thoughts and begin to worship the Lord, His truth can be revealed to us.

