
=== Notes for Parents

Sometimes when everything goes well with us for a while, we become overconfident and forget that we must still "watch and pray" that we "enter not into temptation." Long-continued success is not always good.

We remember that kings and queens came to Solomon to consult with him and ask his advice. As time went on, he made alliances with women from the idolatrous nations whom his people had been told to destroy. He "loved many strange [foreign] women," brought them into his household, set up places of worship for their idols, and finally began to worship those idols himself. This is a picture of the way in which we, when all is going well with us, often fall in love with the pleasures and possessions of the world and forget the first commandment.

In order to support all his wives and to keep up the splendor of his court Solomon had to levy heavy taxes, and the people became restless under their burdens. After Solomon's death they petitioned his son Rehoboam to lighten this burden. His wise older counsellors advised him to grant their petition, but instead he listened to the young men and tried to show his power by making the burdens heavier. So the ten northern tribes rebelled and set up an independent kingdom, which was called Israel. The southern kingdom, called Judah, remained faithful to Solomon's line, kept its capital at Jerusalem, and continued the worship in the temple. But Jeroboam, the first king of Israel, in order to keep his people from going to Jerusalem to worship, set up two golden calves, one in Bethel and one in Dan in the far north. The kings of Israel were uniformly evil and idolatrous. Their reigns, for the most part, were short and stormy, and the royal line changed often. This is a picture of what goes on in our minds when we forget the worship of the Lord and allow ourselves to reason from selfish and worldly considerations.

One of the most powerful and successful of the kings of Israel was the Ahab of our story for today. History rates him as a great king, but the Bible says of him that he "did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him." Remember what the Lord had said to Samuel: "The Lord seeth not as man seeth: for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart." This is something we all need to think of often. So in the days of Ahab the Lord sent the great prophet Elijah to declare that the land was to suffer a prolonged drought. The worldly mind is unable to receive truth from the Lord — the rain of heaven. When we are absorbed in selfish pursuits, the Lord still speaks to us in His Word, warning us of our danger. And He still preserves in us, hidden in our memories, the verses from the Bible which we have learned or heard in our childhood, just as He preserved Elijah until Ahab had reached a point at which he had to recognize his need of help and so became willing to listen.

Elijah's test is one which we all need to think about very seriously.

The prophets of Baal worked hard all day and even "cut themselves after their manner with knives and lancets," but no fire from heaven descended upon their altar. Similarly, we may work very hard — even injure our health — in the pursuit of worldly possessions and power, but it does not make us happy. Happiness comes only from unselfish love in the heart, and the Lord alone can give us this as we worship Him and obey His commandments. We cannot serve self and the Lord at the same time. Jesus told his disciples: "Ye cannot serve God and mammon." As Elijah said to the people, "How long halt ye between two opinions? if the Lord be God, follow him."

