
=== Primary

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Tell the children simply that after Solomon's death his kingdom was divided, and that the people in the northern part stopped going to the temple to worship and finally became so bad that the Lord sent the prophet Elijah to warn them. Teach the children the name Elijah. Then tell them about the drought and its results and go over the story of the two chapters as simply as possible. Read as much as possible from the Word, since there is little in the letter of this story which the children cannot understand, and no paraphrase of it can possibly be more dramatic and powerful.

---
Do you remember what Solomon asked of the Lord? It was a "wise and understanding heart." And you remember the Lord granted his wish and also gave him power and riches and all sorts of beautiful possessions. Wouldn't you think that Solomon would have been so grateful to the Lord that he would always have loved and obeyed Him?

But you know your parents do a great many lovely things for you, and yet you do not always obey them, do you? When you want very much to do some selfish or naughty thing, you are likely to forget all about obeying. That was the way it was with Solomon. He got to thinking he could do anything he pleased, and so his people began to be dissatisfied with him.

After Solomon's death his son could not hold the kingdom together.

It was divided into two kingdoms, the southern one called Judah and the northern one Israel.

The people of Israel forgot the Lord and set up two golden calves to worship, one in Bethel in the southern part of their kingdom and one in Dan in the north.

Finally one of their kings, Ahab, set up also the worship of the god Baal, the god worshiped by his wife, Jezebel.

What great prophet did the Lord send to rebuke Ahab?

What did Elijah tell Ahab?

When Ahab and Jezebel tried to kill Elijah, how did the Lord take care of him?

When Ahab was finally ready to listen to the Lord, what did Elijah tell him to do?

Where did the people gather?

What was the test to be?

How did the prophets of Baal try to persuade their god to hear them?

How did Elijah build his altar?

How did the Lord show which was the true God?

What did the people all say when the fire fell? What did Elijah tell them to do?

What did Elijah do to the prophets of Baal?

What happened afterward?

