
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There is so much in this lesson for the Seniors that the teacher will do well to go through the whole lesson as rapidly as possible and then let the questions and comments of the class suggest its further development.

---
Our study of the Old Testament from the time of Abraham has seemed to indicate a gradual progression, reaching its climax in Solomon. But the story of Solomon teaches us a deep and much-needed lesson. Success has its temptations. We never in this world reach the point when we do not need to be on our guard against our own weaknesses and evils.

Solomon's wisdom and grandeur attracted to him the great of many nations. He began to take wives from these nations, although the Hebrew people had been commanded not to do so. In the life of the soul this is a picture of our tendency to adopt the likes and tastes of those among whom we live without examining them to see if they agree with our religious principles. This is one of the faults into which we are particularly likely to slip just when we think we are established in the good life. Solomon built temples and altars to the idols which his wives worshiped and ended by worshiping these idols himself.

So his kingdom came to an end with his death, and his son was able to hold only the southern part — two tribes. In general, in the divided kingdom, Judah represents the will and Israel the understanding. United under Solomon these two parts of the land picture the times in our lives when we both know what is right and want to do it. But such states are brief. Doubts arise in our minds. Is it worthwhile to give up our own way always and serve the Lord? Is not the sacrifice too great? The Israelites rebelled against the price they seemed to be paying for the grandeur of the united kingdom. Rehoboam, Solomon's son, instead of listening to the advice of his more experienced counselors, tried to keep his people in line by adding to their burdens. So the northern kingdom broke away and accepted another king, Jeroboam.

Jeroboam, to keep the people from drifting back into their old allegiance, set up the worship of golden calves at Bethel and Dan. The golden calves picture "natural" goodness, the setting up of external good works as the real good, independent of recognition and service of the Lord. How easy it is for us to fall into the popular idea that material benefits are the real good works, and that it does not matter whether or not one thinks about God and worships Him so long as he is kind and charitable in external ways! But no deed is really good which is not inspired by the intention of serving the Lord and directed by His truth. Without this we attribute our good works to ourselves, and this is the beginning of spiritual decline, as the setting up of the calves was the beginning of the Israelites' downfall.

The line of David continued on the throne of Judah to the end, and several of its kings were good men who maintained true worship and carried out reforms. But it was not so in Israel. Chapter 16 tells of a series of short, stormy reigns, which picture our state of mind when the will and the understanding are divided. No principle can long rule in the mind which looks to self as supreme. The whole history of Israel is the record of a series of evil, idolatrous kings and of frequent, violent changes in the royal line.

Then Ahab, the most wicked of them all, came to the throne.

He took to wife Jezebel, who has come down in history as the synonym for evil in women. They both worshiped Baal, which pictures the love of self ruling in the life. It is not hard to see why drought and famine were the result. Spiritual drought and famine are always the result of putting self first.

Against this dark background we have the wonderful history of Elijah. Elijah, like all the prophets, represents the Word. What Elijah said to Ahab the Lord through His Word says to us when we fall into self-centered and evil ways. Somewhere in our minds, no matter how hard we try to silence it, is a voice from the Word, which the Lord preserves and feeds as He did Elijah. And eventually we are driven by spiritual drought and famine to seek out Elijah and listen to him.

Chapter 18 presents one of the most striking and powerful pictures in the Bible. Every detail is interesting in the letter and still more so in its spiritual meaning. The three and a half years which the drought lasted represent the fullness of time in a selfish state and the preparation for a new beginning. At the last of this period even Ahab was looking for water. He had with him his servant Obadiah, a God—fearing man. Obadiah pictures that memory of a better kind of life which persists even with the evil and through which alone the mind of an evil man can be reached. Notice that in the search for water Ahab went one way and Obadiah another, and it was Obadiah who met and recognized Elijah.

Elijah called all the people together to Mount Carmel to witness a test between Baal and Jehovah. To make the test between self-worship and worship of the Lord we have to raise our minds to higher levels of thinking than our everyday ones. The prophets of Baal, who are many, picture all the reasonings which favor self-love. Some examples of these reasonings are: "You have to look out for yourself; no one else will"; "God helps those who help themselves"; "You have to be practical and realistic in this world." These reasonings are constantly active in our minds — they cry all day to Baal. But there is one thing which self-love cannot do for its devotees: it cannot bring them happiness, the fire of unselfish love, the Lord's own fire.

Elijah's altar of twelve stones pictures the setting up of the Lord's laws to govern our lives. The bullock sacrificed is the recognition that all the good we may do comes from the Lord. The water poured over the sacrifice is all the worldly reasonings which we have held to be true and which we imagine make the worship of the Lord useless. But upon the altar erected to the Lord, divine fire fell and the people were convinced. Baal's prophets were destroyed. Then abundant rain followed, meaning that we are enabled to see and understand divine truth once more, and our life again can become happy and fruitful.

