
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are two major objectives for the teacher of Adults in this lesson. One is to give as clear a story of the return as possible, pointing out the reason for it and making clear the diminished role of the ancient Jewish nation. The other is to make the chapter itself as meaningful and inspiring as possible.

---
The Minor Prophets are seldom used for lessons in Sunday school. With the exception of the book of Jonah they contain little in story form, and even grown people often find them obscure. Yet they are as important for us as any part of the Word. If they had not contained lessons which all people need, the Lord would not have provided for their recording. As we all know, there are twelve books of the Minor Prophets, beginning with Hosea and ending with Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament. Some of them in the letter place themselves historically. The exact period of others is uncertain, but the first nine all prophesied before the captivity. It is thought that Obadiah may have witnessed the fall of Jerusalem and been carried away with the captives.

The last three of the Minor Prophets — Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi — were sent after the return from captivity. The story of the return is told in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah, which are therefore very valuable books although they do not have an inner sense. It had been given Jeremiah to prophesy (Jeremiah 25:12; 29:10) that after seventy years in Babylon some of the people would return to the Holy Land. So the first verse of the book of Ezra tells us: "Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom." In his proclamation Cyrus said that the Lord had charged him "to build him an house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah," and that all of those who so desired might now return to their own land. The people knew, therefore, that the rebuilding of the temple was the primary cause and purpose of their return, and Cyrus restored to them all the gold and silver vessels of the temple which Nebuchadnezzar had carried away. He also charged those who did not return to make a freewill offering for the rebuilding of the temple and also to help their returning brethren "with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts."

More than forty-two thousand returned, under the leadership of Zerubbabel, a grandson of king Jehoiachin, and the foundation of the temple was laid with great rejoicing, although some of the "ancient men" wept because they could see that the new temple was not to be so large and impressive as the former one. But now the Samaritans, whose offer of help in the building had been rebuffed by Zerubbabel, made false representations to the kings who had succeeded Cyrus in Babylon, and the people received a command not to continue the building. As we learn from the prophet Haggai, instead of protesting they yielded all too willingly and turned to the building of their own houses. At the urging of Haggai, however, they finally sent an embassy to the second Darius, as a result of which he unearthed the original statute of Cyrus and, as this was one of the laws of the Medes and Persians — which, we recall, "change not" — he ordered the building resumed. The temple was completed, and at its dedication the feast of the Passover was celebrated.

It is important for us to know this history because it gives us the background of the New Testament story. The Lord came to fulfill the Old Testament Scriptures. He had to come, therefore, among those who possessed them. And Swedenborg tells us that because the Holy Land had been the home of the people of both the Most Ancient and the Ancient Churches and its geography had accordingly become correspondential in all its features, the Lord had to come in the Holy Land. So it was under divine providence that the remnant was brought back and driven to complete the temple. But we remember that the nation no longer represented the Lord's church on earth. Its history after the captivity, except for the warnings of the three prophets, forms no part of the inspired Word. Scholars, especially since the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls, have been much occupied with this history in an effort to trace the sources of the various sects in Palestine near the beginning of the Christian era. But we need not concern ourselves too much with their speculations, interesting though they are. The roots of the rejection of the Lord were in the people themselves who so reacted, not in any influences coming from without.

In his summary of the meaning of the prophecies of the last three Minor Prophets in Prophets and Psalms, Swedenborg shows us that they deal with the complete vastation of the ancient Jewish Church and with the imminent coming of the Lord and establishment of the Christian Church. There are a number of statements in these Prophets which latter—day Jews, knowing only the letter, quite naturally interpret as promises of the eventual restoration of their nation to preeminence in the world, but in the spiritual sense there is no suggestion of this.

Our chapter for today has still further implications. Read Revelation 11:4. This ties in the vision of Zechariah with the vision of John and with the Second Coming. In explaining Revelation 11:4 in the Apocalypse Explained (see below), Swedenborg quotes from our chapter.*

[*See note on Senior notes regarding the translation of certain phrases. -Editor]

In our own personal lives we may think of this chapter as a charge and encouragement to complete the building of our temple — the church in us. In @AC 9548[4] we are told that Zerubbabel, "who should found the house of God and perfect it," represents "the Lord who would come, and would restore the Spiritual Heaven and Church." We become discouraged sometimes. There seem to be too many claims made upon us by our necessities in the world and too much opposition within us to our regeneration. But it is the Lord who is really building our temple and He is able to finish what He has begun, if we can only keep the vision fresh in our minds. We remember that in the first chapter of Revelation the seven candlesticks, or lampstands, were the seven churches. Each of us, insofar as he is faithful to the teachings of the Word, is a church or lampstand. The seven lamps, the "eyes of the Lord, which run to and fro through the whole earth," picture the omniscience of divine providence, which sees our every thought and desire and leads us as straight and as far as we are willing to be led (see Ezekiel 1:18). The two olive trees or olive berries which pour oil into the lamps are the two great commandments — love to the Lord and love to the neighbor. And we should especially note the question, "Who hath despised the day of small things?" It is not by the moments of great crisis that the strength of our purpose is tested and measured, but by the things we do and think and feel in the little affairs of everyday life.

