
=== Intermediate

The real lesson for the Intermediates is the correspondence of Zechariah's vision, together with the necessity for the return. Facts concerning the Minor Prophets and concerning the return should be given as background.

---
The last twelve books in the Old Testament are called the Minor Prophets. They are short books and in the letter often rather hard to understand, but they are just as important as any other part of the Word. If the messages of these prophets had not been meant for people of all times, the Lord would not have had them recorded in the Word.

Some of these books are so short that they give us little clue to the time in which the prophets themselves lived, but most of them lived in Judah or Israel before the time of the captivity. The last three, however — Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi — are called prophets of the restoration. The Darius who is mentioned by both Haggai and Zechariah is not the Darius who cast Daniel into the den of lions, but a later king of the same name.

Cyrus the Persian took the throne of Babylon after the first Darius, and we read in the book of Ezra — which is a very valuable historical book although not one which contains an inner sense - that in the first year of his reign "the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus" to let the captives from Judah go back to their own land. Because the Lord was to come into the world in the Holy Land and among the Jews, it was necessary that the nation be re—established there and that Jerusalem and the temple be rebuilt.

All the captives did not want to go back. Some were apparently quite satisfied with their life in Babylon. But, as we learn from the books of Ezekiel and Daniel, there were at least a few who had remained faithful to their own religion and longed to go back. Others possibly thought that their opportunities to prosper would be greater in the land of Canaan than in Babylon. You can easily see what these three classes of people picture. When a person who has been brought up in the church is carried away by worldly ambition, there is a part of his nature which is perfectly satisfied with the worldly life. But deep down inside him there is some little remembrance of the better life in which his childhood was passed and some little feeling that he ought to return to it. And then there is in such a person a restlessness and dissatisfaction with his present condition which makes him feel that any change must be for the better.

More than forty-two thousand returned to the land of Canaan. Their leader was Zerubbabel, who was a grandson of Jehoiachin, the last really independent king of Judah. We should note that Zerubbabel never was called king. The land of Canaan remained under the control of Babylon.

Cyrus said that he had been charged by the Lord "to build him an house at Jerusalem," and he ordered the people to rebuild the temple and had those who remained in Babylon make a freewill offering toward it and also help those who returned "with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts." And Cyrus himself gave them back all the gold and silver vessels of the temple which Nebuchadnezzar had carried away when the temple was destroyed.

In their first enthusiasm the returned captives laid the foundation of the temple, but then their natural selfishness cropped up again. They had some trouble with the Samaritans — the people, you remember, who had been brought in by Assyria to take the place of the people of Israel — and after Cyrus died, his successor forgot the command of Cyrus in regard to the temple. So the people turned to building houses for themselves and, just as they always had been, they were led astray into the ways of the people about them. Then the Lord sent the last three of the prophets to rebuke them and to encourage them to complete the building of the temple.

The vision of Zechariah in our chapter for today is part of this encouragement. Zerubbabel had used the opposition of the Samaritans as an excuse for discontinuing work on the temple. Verse 6 of our chapter is the Lord's answer to this excuse, and the Lord is at the same time saying it to us when we allow ourselves to be easily discouraged from the building of the "temple" of a heavenly character in ourselves. "Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts." We are not strong enough of ourselves to resist our temptations and do good, but if we keep trying, the Lord will accomplish it for us.

Zechariah's vision is not too hard to understand. You remember that the seven—branched candlestick in the Holy Place of the tabernacle represented divine truth from the Word enlightening our minds. It represents the same here, but there is added the statement that the seven lamps are "the eyes of the Lord, which run to and fro through the whole earth" (read also Revelation 5:6). This pictures the fact that the Lord's divine providence sees everything that goes on in the world and makes provision for it, and that the truths of the Word will enable us to understand everything that happens to us and meet it as we should.

Then there are the two olive trees which furnished the oil for the lamps. Here read Revelation 11:4. The last verse of our chapter tells us that the two olive trees are the "two anointed ones that stand by the Lord of the whole earth." We know that oil represents love. There are two kinds of love which we have from the Lord, love to the Lord and love to the neighbor. These are the olive trees and they belong just where they are in the vision, one on either side of the candlestick, supplying oil for it. Love to the Lord takes us to the Word to find out all we can about Him, and love to the neighbor takes us to the Word to find out all we can about helping others.

