
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The lesson for this class is principally a factual account of the return from captivity and the reason the three prophets of the restoration had to be sent, and a study of prophecy in general. But the lessons suggested in the last paragraph of the Junior notes should also be pointed out.

---
The last three of the Minor Prophets — Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi — prophesied after the people returned from captivity. Cyrus the Persian, the king who followed Darius the Mede on the throne of Babylon, issued a proclamation in the very first year of his reign that all those who wished might go back to the land of Canaan. We find the story of the return in the book of Ezra, which is not one of the books of the Bible which has an inner sense, but which gives us very valuable historical information. Ezra says that "the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus" to let the people go back, and Cyrus in his proclamation said that the Lord had charged him to build Him a house in Jerusalem. So the people who did not wish to go back were ordered to make a "freewill offering" toward the rebuilding of the temple and also to help those who went back "with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts," and Cyrus himself gave them back all the gold and silver vessels of the temple which Nebuchadnezzar had carried away. Ezra tells us that there were fifty-four hundred of these vessels. More than forty-two thousand of the people went back under the leadership of Zerubbabel, who was a grandson of Jehoiachin, the next—to-the—last king of Judah.

But after the returned captives had laid the foundation of the temple, they began to think about their own comfort and left the temple and built houses for themselves instead. Then the prophets Haggai and Zechariah were inspired to rebuke them and urge them on to the completion of the temple. Do we ever get tired of doing something which needs very much to be done and turn to something which we think will be more fun?

Now read the first verse of our chapter for today. We often wonder just how the prophets were inspired, and this shows us one of the ways: Zechariah says an angel woke him in the night and then he saw a vision and the angel told him what it meant. In other places in the Bible other methods are mentioned. Sometimes the prophets were instructed by dreams, sometimes by visions in the daytime, sometimes by a voice heard within them, sometimes by speech with an angel who appeared to them, and sometimes by a voice heard from without. In every case, however, they had no doubt whatever that the dream or vision or voice came from the Lord.

What did Zechariah see?

To whom was Zechariah to give the message?

What was he to tell Zerubbabel first?

What was said about the temple?

What did the angel say the seven lamps were?

What were the two olive trees?

You will be able to understand the meaning of this vision better when you are older, but there are two or three lessons you can find in it now. One is that it is by the Lord's spirit and power that anything good is accomplished — not by our own strength or ability. Another is that the Lord is able to finish any work He begins; so we should not allow ourselves to be discouraged from trying to do right. A third is that divine providence sees and takes into account every least thing that happens anywhere. We learn this from verse 10. If you will read Revelation 5:6 and 11:4 you will see that the same symbolic visions were given to the apostle John hundreds of years later; so we know that they were meant not just for the people of Bible days but for us and for all people.

