
=== Notes for Parents

I imagine that if most of us were asked, "What do you know about the Minor Prophets?" we might have to confess that we know very little. Perhaps we know that there were twelve of them and that their books are the last twelve books of the Old Testament. Some of us will remember that they begin with Hosea and end with Malachi. And most of us would remember a little of the story of Jonah. But just what the messages of the Minor Prophets were and what they mean for us we might find it hard to say.

Yet the books of the Minor Prophets are just as inspired and just as important as the other books of the Word. It merely takes a little more effort and study to understand them. And we often find in them single verses which we have heard quoted and which teach us an immediate and clear lesson.

Take our chapter for today as an example of what we can find out with a little study. We should know first that the last three of the Minor Prophets prophesied in the "Restoration" period, after the remnant was sent back from Babylon and commanded to rebuild the temple at Jerusalem. Cyrus said the Lord had charged him to do this. The Lord, when He came, was to fulfill the Law and the Prophets; so He had to come among the people who had the Hebrew Scriptures. And He had to live in the Holy Land, which from the beginning of time had been the setting for the Bible story. So the Lord provided that the people of Judah, after seventy years of captivity in Babylon, should return and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple.

They had not been back very long, however, and had only laid the foundation of the temple, when they lost their enthusiasm for building the house of the Lord and turned to the building of homes for themselves instead. This reminds us, perhaps, of some short-lived good resolutions of our own. The prophets Haggai and Zechariah were inspired to rebuke them and urge them on. The Zerubbabel mentioned in our chapter was a grandson of king Jehoiachin of Judah and the leader of the returned captives. Zechariah's message to him is that if he will continue the building faithfully, the Lord will give him power to complete the work.

But this chapter has a lesson for us, too. We can all see that throughout the Bible light is the symbol of truth — for example, the Lord said, "I am the light of the world." But He also said, "Ye are the light of the world." The lampstand is the church in the world and in every individual one of us who will study the Word, try to live as it teaches us to live, and so obey the Lord's command: "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven." Again we can easily see that the oil which burns in lamps stands for love. We remember the parable of the ten virgins (Matthew 25); the wise virgins took oil in their lamps. Throughout the Bible olive trees and olive oil are symbols of love. What are the two olive trees which stand one on either side of the candlestick and pour oil into its lamps? What are the two great loves which must be in our hearts if we are to make our lives temples of the Lord? Jesus said: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets."

