
=== Senior

It is important that the Seniors have a clear knowledge of the history of the return and restoration as a background for the story of the New Testament. The general lesson from Zechariah 4, suggested at the end of their notes, is also important.

---
Many of us do not know much about the Minor Prophets. They are short books — the last twelve in the Old Testament — and in the letter their meaning is often obscure. The book of Jonah is the only one of them which has in it a continuous story, and for that reason it is better known than the others. But the books of the Minor Prophets are just as important for us as any other part of the Word of God. The Lord has nothing recorded in the Word which did not contain a message needed by people in all times.

We should read the Minor Prophets even though we do not understand them, partly because we know that our reverent reading of any part of the Word enables the angels who are with us to read it at the same time in its spiritual sense, and partly because as we read, the words are recorded in our memories and the Lord can recall them to us with meaning at some future time when we need their message. Further than this, if we really make the effort to study any particular chapter with the help of the writings, we shall find some lessons in it which will be helpful to us now, either by showing us states into which we have fallen or by pointing out trends in us which may be leading us in the wrong direction. Or, as in our chapter for today, we may find inspiration to be more faithful and persistent in our efforts to lead the heavenly life.

The last three of the Minor Prophets — Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi — are called the Prophets of the Restoration. Seventy years after Jerusalem and the temple were destroyed and most of the people of Judah carried off to Babylon, all of them who wished to do so were allowed to return. In the book of Ezra, which does not contain an inner sense but is nevertheless a very useful historical book, we are told that "in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia" to permit this return, and the proclamation of Cyrus declares that the Lord "hath charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem which is in Judah." Zerubbabel, a grandson of king Jehoiachin, was appointed to lead the return, and more than forty-two thousand went with him. Cyrus gave them back all the gold and silver vessels of the temple which Nebuchadnezzar had carried away, and he ordered all those who preferred to remain in Babylon to give a freewill offering toward the rebuilding of the temple and also to help those who went "with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts."

The captives returned with rejoicing (read Psalm 126) and laid the foundation of the temple. But they rejected the overtures of the Samaritans — the people, you remember, who had been brought in to settle the northern part of the land when Assyria conquered Israel — and the Samaritans in return sent an embassy to Ahasuerus and later to Artaxerxes, the kings who succeeded Cyrus on the throne of Babylon, and Artaxerxes was persuaded to order the building stopped. The men of Judah weakly obeyed and turned their energies to the building of houses for themselves, at the same time falling back into their old habit of association with the people of the land. It was not until the prophets Haggai and Zechariah were inspired to rebuke and urge them on that they sent messengers of their own to Babylon. By their representations king Darius (the second Darius, who followed Artaxerxes) was led to unearth the original statute of Cyrus — which, as one of the "laws of the Medes and Persians" could not be changed — and he authorized the people to complete the temple. This they finally did, celebrating the feast of the Passover at its dedication.

We should all be familiar with this story of the return because it re—established Judaism in the Holy Land. The Lord had to be born in the Holy Land because of its correspondence; and because He came to fulfill the Law and the Prophets, He had to come among the people who alone had them. Therefore the return was necessary. But we should also remember that the nation was no longer the representative of the Lord's church on earth. It is for this reason that the record of their history from the time of the captivity is not part of the inspired Word.

Our chapter for today, as we can easily see, is a vision given to Zechariah to be passed on to Zerubbabel to encourage him to complete the temple. The quotation at the end of this lesson gives us the meaning of some of the details of the vision, which is referred to by John in Revelation 11:4. We should note that Swedenborg, possibly following the Latin of Schmidius [baccae olivarum, ... filii oleae] , gives us "olive berries" instead of "olive branches" and "sons of the olive-tree" instead of "anointed ones."* [*The Hebrew has "olive twig" and "sons of the oil." -Editor]

The chapter has an important message for all of us, for we are often like Zerubbabel, too ready to drop the effort to become the spiritual men and women we ought to be, and to turn our efforts to making ourselves more comfortable and prosperous in the world. You remember that the temple, the house of the Lord, is a representative of a heavenly character, which is the church in each one. We should all keep before us from day to day this vision of the golden lampstand and the two olive trees to remind us of our true goal in life and of the fact that only by obedience to the two great commandments can we attain this goal. We have no goodness or truth or power of ourselves, but as we persevere in the study of divine truth in the Word and in obedience to it, the Lord will complete our temple. "Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the Lord of hosts."

