
=== Adult

The reasons for the decline of the Ancient church and the picture given of it in the series Noah, Ham, Cush, Nimrod, Babel are important for the Adults, especially in connection with the modern approach to Bible study. We might note that the First Christian Church followed the same historic pattern of decline which the Ancient Church presents.

---
The decline of the Most Ancient Church is described in Genesis 5 in the genealogy from Adam to Noah, and its final state of gross self-love in Genesis 6:1-7. The destruction of the people of the Most Ancient Church had to be permitted because they were so constituted that all their knowledge of truth came by perception through the will, and when the will became wholly selfish, they could think nothing but what was false. We are familiar with the general meaning of the story of the flood, the salvation of Noah and his family in the ark, and the new covenant whose sign was the rainbow. With the people of the Ancient Church which was founded on this covenant, the will and the understanding were separated so that men could receive knowledge of divine truth by an external way, as all men have received it since that time.

Because of the brevity and simplicity of these early Bible stories we are apt to forget that, like the six days of creation, each of them describes a development which took centuries. The world does not pass suddenly from one state to another any more than an individual does. The germs of evil as well as the remains of good are often unnoticed for a long time and grow little by little. So the tremendous pride of self-intelligence which brought about the end of the Ancient Church was the culmination of a long, slow process of decline.

In our lesson for today we find them journeying "from the east" — away from the Lord — and they have come to a plain in the land of Shinar. There they build a city and a tower, which is called Babel. Babel is first mentioned in Genesis 10:10 as one of the productions of Nimrod, who was a son of Cush and a grandson of Ham. Of the three sons of Noah — the three different branches of the Ancient Church — Ham represents external worship without internal, or faith without charity. Cush represents the "interior knowledges of the Word, whereby such men [men who are in faith without charity] confirm false principles." Nimrod represents the external worship of those who place religion in externals and not in internals. Nimrod was a "mighty hunter" and Swedenborg tells us that this is because the greater part of mankind do not know what internal things are, but only external things; and most men abide in things of sense, in pleasures and in cupidities, and have in view themselves and the world; and therefore they are easily captivated by such a religion." (@AC 1178) This gives us a background for our thought concerning the Tower of Babel.

In Isaiah 14:13-14 it is said of the king of Babylon: "For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north: I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the Most High." The word Babylon is merely the Greek form of Babel; by a play on words they are both connected with a Hebrew root (balal) which signifies confusion. The state which causes spiritual confusion is the exaltation of self. The pride of the king of Babylon and the pride of the people of the degenerate Ancient Church are both described in the Bible in similar terms, but the older story, being part of the Ancient Word, uses the picture of the actual building of a tower "whose top may reach unto heaven." "And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar." Stone is one of the symbols of truth, standing particularly for the fundamental truths upon which we build our lives. So the Lord Himself is called the "Cornerstone," and many times the "Rock." Bricks are made by man out of the earth itself to take the place of stone. They picture principles which man makes up out of his own mind to take the place of the Lord's truths; the fire with which he burns them "thoroughly" is the fire of self-love; and self-interest is the slime or bitumen with which he sticks them together, in place of the enduring mortar of neighborly love.

A businessman who believes that "the first duty of each of us is to look after himself" has definite principles upon which he carries on his business; he makes these up with the best of his understanding so that he may succeed. He may not lie or steal or cheat because he can see that "honesty is the best policy," but his principles have nothing to hold them together except self-interest, and as soon as he is convinced that some other practice would serve him better, the structure that he has made falls to pieces, like the house founded on the sand: his "slime" has melted away. Every life that is built from the motive of self-love is a tower of Babel.

The people of the Ancient Church had a wealth of knowledges concerning spiritual things and how they work out in the substances of the material world. When they turned from the Lord to self, they began to use their knowledges and their worship to get power and fame for themselves, and if the Lord had not again interfered, they would have destroyed themselves as the people of the Most Ancient Church had done. They would have become monstrous forms of falsity, just as the Most Ancients became giants of evil: "And now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do." So the Lord took away from them the understanding of the spiritual meaning of material things, so that they could no longer pervert and profane the holy things which are within all external effects. The Word says that the Lord "did there confound the language of all the earth." That is, when the internal harmony which came from dependence on the Lord was destroyed through self-conceit, all the varieties of thought and worship, which had been like the harmonious colors of the rainbow, became sources of discord and division. So the people of the Ancient Church were divided and scattered, each group following its own form of worship from tradition instead of from any understanding of its spiritual significance.

This, we are told, was the origin of all the forms of idolatry in which the nations were found at the dawn of recorded history. Nature worship, ancestor worship, idol worship — instead of being the beginnings of religion as a prevailing modern theory holds — are the degenerate remains of the beautiful correspondential worship of the people of the Silver Age, the Ancient Church. Mythology is a corrupt survival of true correspondential accounts of the early peoples. Hieroglyphic writing has its basis in correspondence. The accounts of the flood found in the traditions of certain nations are corruptions of the original account in the Ancient Word which Moses copied from that Word for us. A very clear illustration of the building of a Tower of Babel is the "natural history" concept of the development of religion, which is made up by men from their knowledge of existing historical remains without any belief in Divine revelation or in spiritual causes. A knowledge of the spiritual meaning of the story of the Tower of Babel with reference to the Ancient Church should protect the minds of New Churchmen from infection by this "natural history" concept and its conclusions. Modern scholarship is so bound up with this concept that in examining its findings it is almost impossible to separate fact from imagination. When one starts with the premise that the Bible is merely the product of men, one's conclusions are unsound, no matter how painstaking and conscientious the research. It makes a vital difference whether we approach the Bible as God's Word to men or as man's "ascending search for God." The latter study builds a Tower of Babel. The former builds a church.

