
=== Intermediate

In its application to our own lives the lesson is very easy to illustrate for this age group. Its correspondences are simple and clear. Because of its brevity the lesson lends itself to verse by verse interpretation, and it may be a good thing to take advantage of this method, as we do not often have time for it in a Sunday School period. The class should also be given specific teaching concerning the character of the Ancient Church, why it declined, and how it ended, as there will be further references to it during the year.

In past lessons we have studied the stories which immediately follow the story of Cain and Abel — the stories of the flood and of Noah and the ark. These are such familiar stories that we need only speak of their spiritual meaning. The flood was a flood of falsity and evil which finally overwhelmed the people of the Most Ancient Church once they had turned from the Lord to self. Even an innocent child, once he determines to close his ears to instruction and advice, is likely to become worse and worse until finally he may actually become a criminal. A criminal is not made all at once, but little by little by accepting and acting upon false ideas instead of true ones. But all the people of the Most Ancient Church did not reach the state represented by the destruction in the flood. Some, even though they were in false ideas and had yielded to some evils, still recognized the Lord and meant to obey Him; so the Lord could save them. This good remnant is represented by Noah and his family, and their character is represented by the ark. And you will remember that when the flood subsided and they came out of the ark, Noah built an altar and worshiped the Lord, and the Lord made a new covenant with him, the sign of which was the rainbow. This was the beginning of the second great church, the Ancient Church.

The Ancient Church was of a different character from the Most Ancient, in that its people were no longer instructed by the Lord through an inner perception of truth, but had to learn truth by an outward way, just as we do, before the Lord could enlighten their minds. The very fact that they had to study and learn gave these people a great respect for knowledge. Their particular study was the study of correspondences, which they developed into a science. At first, of course, they studied the correspondence of the world about them for the purpose of learning how the Lord wanted them to live. But after a while they began to forget the purpose and to study just for the sake of knowing more than other people. You can see how this might happen. A boy, for instance, may decide that he wants to be a doctor because he feels that as a doctor he can help a great many people. But by the time he has completed his long years of training, he may have fallen in love with his science and want to go on with it just in order to make a great name for himself, regardless of whether or not what he is doing is really helping people. You see we are getting close to our lesson for today, the story of the Tower of Babel; for the people in that story were working to make themselves a name — not with any thought of serving the Lord and the neighbor.

This story — like the story of the flood — describes the end of a church, this time of the second or Ancient Church. Let us think for a moment of the particular correspondences in it. Up to this time "the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech." This means that in general and in particular people agreed as to the doctrines of their religion. But now they were journeying "from the east." This means away from the Lord, for the East, where the sun rises, corresponds to the Lord and the love and truth that come from Him. And they went down into a valley, a low state of life, and there they decided to build a city and a tower whose top should reach to heaven, for the purpose of making a name for themselves. A city represents doctrine and a tower the worship of self. We are building just such a city and tower when we think of ourselves as the most important thing in the world and form our ideas according to what we think will be most to our own advantage, so that people will admire us and do what we want.

The builders of the Tower of Babel had brick for stone. Stone, you remember, represents truth. Brick represents man-made ideas, and these bricks were burned thoroughly in the fire of self-love. And they had slime or pitch instead of mortar. Mortar, which binds stones together, represents true charity; but pitch, which melts when heated, represents self-love.

We can see from all this why it is said that the Lord confounded their language and scattered them abroad over all the face of the earth. When each person in a group is thinking of himself, each is unwilling to hear and accept any ideas which are not to his advantage. So they do not understand each other and cannot work together. Sometimes two boys or girls are friends for a while when they are looking for the same kind of pleasure, but it takes very little to break up such a friendship.

The Ancient Church actually did break up and scatter all over the earth. Some of its knowledges were handed down by tradition and appear in the Greek and Roman myths and in the hieroglyphics of Egypt and the magic of India. But the Lord was no longer in that church.


