
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Something can be done in this class with the real meaning of the successive churches, the reason for their decline, and the general correspondence of the Tower of Babel story. The last statement in the Older Children notes should interest the children.

---
who were the first two sons of Adam and Eve? What was Cain's occupation?

What was Abel's occupation?

What offering did Abel bring to the Lord?

What offering did Cain bring?

Why was Cain's offering not accepted?

What did Cain do to Abel?

What was his punishment?

How did the Lord save him from destruction?

What do Cain and Abel represent?

The Bible story tells us that the early people, after they once decided to depend on their own judgment instead of obeying the Lord wholly, became worse and worse. This is what always happens when anyone decides that he does not need to obey the Lord. Their selfishness and their false ideas finally became so great that they were destroyed by their own evils, just as a criminal eventually "comes to a bad end." Their destruction is pictured in the story of the flood.

But you remember in the story of the flood that some people who still wanted to obey the Lord were saved.

What were these people called in the story?

How was Noah saved?

What sign was given to him after he came out of the ark?

What promise did the Lord make?

Do you suppose that all the people after Noah kept the covenant the Lord had made with them? No, people again began to think selfishly and to forget that they owed everything to the Lord. This made them feel very important. They were not giants of selfishness like the last people before the flood, but they thought a great deal of themselves and of their own ideas. They gave themselves credit for their knowledge. They even thought they could reach heaven by their own way and be like God.

In the story we have today how did they try to reach heaven?

What was their purpose in building the tower?

Read the lesson and see if you can find three great mistakes they made to begin with. People who think themselves wise are always really foolish.

Where did they begin to build their tower?

What building material did they use?

What did they use instead of mortar?

What did the Lord decide to do?

Why did they have to stop building the tower when their language was "confounded"?

You would find it hard to work with anyone who could not speak English. But sometimes you do not understand other people even when they are speaking English, because they use words you don't know, or because they are talking about things you are not old enough to understand, or because you are not paying attention. And sometimes you don't understand because you don't want to understand. selfish people are never interested in anything other people want. So selfish people never really understand each other. And people who "know it all" don't even listen to other people. So you see why it is said that the Lord "confounded" the language of the people in the story. They were so selfish and conceited that they could not work together at all.

What was the name of the tower?

Babel today is a synonym for "confusion."

What happened to the people after their language was confounded?

The people described in the story of the Garden of Eden were the first great church upon the earth. This is called the Most Ancient Church. The people described in the story of Noah were the second great church, the Ancient Church. When this church departed from the Lord, it was really scattered all over the world, and all the religions in the world today except the Jewish, the Christian, and the Mohammedan are based on traditions handed down from this Ancient Church.

