
=== Notes for Parents

The story of the flood is the symbolic description of the end of the first great "church" on the earth. Most of its people were swallowed up by the wrong ways of living which they developed as they became more and more selfish. Those who still wanted to serve the Lord are pictured by Noah and his family. The Lord gave them a new revelation of truth — the Ancient Word, which existed before our Bible and is referred to and quoted here and there in our Bible. From this they learned the truths which the earlier church, as long as its people remained simple and innocent, had been given by an inner perception.

The people of the Ancient Church — this second church — became very wise from their study of the Ancient Word, much wiser than we are today, but gradually they began to be proud of their wisdom, as learned people sometimes are, and to forget that the Lord was the source of all their knowledge and that none of it was the product of their own minds. So they, too, separated faith from charity and strayed further and further from true worship of the Lord and true goodness.

The story of the Tower of Babel is the description of the end of this second church. Spiritually its people came to live in a low valley — a low, worldly plane of thought — and built their lives according to their own selfish ideas — the brick and slime — instead of with the stone of truths from the Lord cemented together by mortar — charity in the heart. This was because their object was to make a name for themselves.

When people are seeking only their own advantage, they cannot live together in harmony or work effectively together. Each one speaks his own language and they do not understand each other. They have to go their separate ways.

We know that the earliest historical records find men actually scattered over the surface of the earth, practicing many forms of idolatry, many of them at war with each other, and many in savage states. This is not the original state of mankind, as some historians assume. It is the condition which followed the breaking up of the Ancient Church. Mythology tells us of the Golden and Silver Ages before recorded history, and most peoples have such traditions, handed down by word of mouth through the centuries. The Lord Himself gives us this knowledge in the first seven chapters of our Bible, wonderful symbolic accounts of the two great civilizations which had risen, flourished, and died before written records began.

