
=== Senior

In addition to the general lesson on the folly of setting up human intelligence above revelation from the Lord, stress the different interpretation of history which the knowledge about the Most Ancient and Ancient Churches makes possible for us, and the many things in the modern world which this interpretation explains.

The people of the Most Ancient Church, after the separation of faith and charity and the consequent destruction of charity as pictured in the story of Cain and Abel, developed more and more monstrous evils. This is what is meant by Genesis 6:4. The "sons of God" are the truths handed down in that church, the "daughters of men" are selfish loves, and their marriage pictures the falsification of truth when it is used selfishly. That this process actually developed physical giants we know from later history in the Word. All the giants — including the well—known Og, king of Bashan, and Goliath of Gath — were evil remnants of the Most Ancient Church. The destruction of the Most Ancient Church is pictured, as we know, by the story of the flood, and the establishment of a second great church — the Ancient Church — by the story of the salvation of Noah and his family in the ark, and the covenant of the rainbow. This church was of a new character, having lost the inner perception of truth by which the good in the Most Ancient Church were led. The will and the understanding in man had been separated, and men now had to acquire truth in the memory by an outward way — as we do — before they could be enlightened by the Lord. In its best days this was a church of great wisdom, delighting in the study of correspondences and developing varied and beautiful forms of worship according to correspondences.

But gradually pride in their own wisdom undermined the purity of their life and worship. The history of the decline of the Ancient Church is covered by a long chapter of genealogy (Genesis 10), each successive generation picturing some new development. Such a chapter may seem to us a mere tiresome succession of names, but Swedenborg tells us that it is nevertheless very useful for us to read it, for as we read, the angels who are with us are understanding the inner meaning.

The story of the Tower of Babel describes the end of the Ancient Church. In only nine verses we have a wonderful picture. The people were journeying "from the east" — away from the Lord — and they came finally to dwell in the plain of Shinar, a low valley, representing a state far from the Lord. Read Isaiah 55:9. There they decided to build a tower whose top should reach to heaven in order to make a name for themselves. Their ambition was to become great by their own unaided efforts. We hear people boast of being "self-made." An understanding of the folly of such an idea is expressed in the taunt, "He is trying to pull himself up by his own bootstraps." Reason tells us that in order to rise a person must take hold of something higher than himself; yet we are always trying to exalt our own ideas and our own powers.

"They had brick for stone, and slime had they for mortar."

Stone represents truth. It is God-given; no man can make it. Brick is man-made and represents our own ideas used as a substitute for the Divine truth. The slime or pitch (the word in the Hebrew is bitumen) symbolizes self-love. Self-love will hold people together for a time, as long as their interests coincide, but a very little heat of angry passion will melt the bond. Every man-made philosophy of life is a tower of Babel, begun in the valley and built up of brick and slime in an effort to reach heaven — to "make a name" for oneself.

"And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language." This pictures the fact that up to this time the people had had but one doctrine of truth. Now this state was to be broken up. When men look to themselves for truth, there is no fixed standard. Men's ideas differ. Each follows his own selfish line of thought. They begin to argue and quarrel and cease to understand each other because each is interested only in his own ideas. So the Ancient Church broke up in a "confusion of tongues," or conflicting religious ideas, and as a result actually was "scattered abroad upon the face of all the earth." Babel has become a synonym for "confusion."

Historians make the mistake of assuming that the state of men at the beginning of history was but a step in a constant upward development of civilization. So they believe that men started as godless wild beasts. Instead of this, the state of the world at the opening of recorded history was the end of a great civilization, the second great civilization since the beginning. Mythology, with its golden and silver ages, is really much nearer the truth than the modern naturalistic interpretation of history. The Greek and Roman myths are full of true correspondences, and the hieroglyphics of Egypt, as well as the magic practiced there and later in India, are based on the knowledges of correspondence handed down by tradition among the scattered remnants of the Ancient Church. In the Bible story itself we have Balaam's use of correspondence in his effort to curse Israel and — on the good side — we have the correspondential gifts brought to the infant Lord by the wise men of the East. All the pagan religions of the world have their roots in the Ancient Church. This is why in all of them there is enough genuine truth to form the basis of a good life, so that those who choose to believe in God and to live in love to the neighbor may reach heaven.

