
=== Adult

Important thoughts for the Adults are the nature of Saul's rule and the meaning of Jonathan and his small victory. Another very helpful topic of discussion is the shortsightedness of seeing evil in the enjoyment of any of the good things of the world which have been provided for our use and refreshment. The Lord's example and not any assumptions and prejudices of men should be our guide here. The Lord Himself supplies us with a warning and direction in this matter in Matthew 11:17-19.

---
In 1 Samuel 7:13 we read: "So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the coast of Israel: and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel." Yet in our chapter for today, with Samuel still Judge and recognized as the Lord's spokesman, we find that the Philistines are again gathered in great strength to attack Israel and that many of the Israelites are in hiding for fear of them, and in chapter 13 we learn that the Philistines have so extensive a control in the land that the Israelites have no smiths and their armies no weapons of war. In the letter this would seem to be contradictory, but it is not so in the internal sense. The "days of Samuel" are our states of childlike trust and obedience, as we saw in our last lesson. But by the time of today's lesson, although the people still in a measure acknowledge Samuel as their head, they have another leader whom they really prefer to Samuel.

You will recall that when Samuel was old and had made his unworthy sons judges, the people had asked for a king to lead them against their enemies. When, as adults, we have suffered the decline of our early religious zeal, as Israel declined in the time of the Judges, and then have come to the realization that we are in real spiritual danger and must return to the guidance and protection of the Lord, our first state is one of sincere humiliation and simple obedience, which Samuel represents. But very few adults can "hold" this state. The world looms very large and we become fearful of losing spiritual ground. We want something more specific than a general assurance to lead us — some system of truth furnished with arguments with which to meet our temptations. We want a warlike king instead of a peaceful prophet, although we still recognize the prophet as our judge.

The three kings represent successively higher concepts of the Lord's truth. Saul, we remember, was accepted by the people because of his appearance. The Lord chose him as the first king because he was the only kind of leader the people would have respected at that time. We know that the Lord always accommodates His revelation of Himself to our states. He permits us to see only so much of His truth as we are capable of applying to life. Saul was a brave and sincere man and in the beginning humble. When we first turn from childlike trust, we do not mean to become self-confident — we have had our bitter experience with trying to lead ourselves. But we have not yet become wise, and our self-will is stronger than we think. Saul won his first victory, a victory over the Ammonites, the same external enemy whom Jephthah had conquered. Then he felt that he was established and sure of victory, and he began to make his own decisions instead of waiting to be directed by Samuel — so the Philistines were in the saddle again. Thus the new attack by the Philistines is really in the days of Saul and not in the days of Samuel.

Our first concept of the truth is, like Saul, superficial and hasty. It is based on our natural reason which judges by appearances and is stubborn and headstrong. But it wins some victories and it also has other good results. It gives us fresh experience of the power of the Lord which confirms what we were taught in our earlier years. This development is represented by Saul's son Jonathan, who was not dismayed by the apparent power of the enemy because he knew that "there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few."

The stories of Jonathan in the Word have great appeal. Among the Bible characters he is a general favorite, and to many Bible readers the question of why Jonathan had to be killed with his father is a real problem. Again the internal sense gives us a clear answer. Saul's line had to perish because a natural understanding of truth, however excellent, must give place to a spiritual understanding if we are to become spiritual men and women.

Yet Jonathan played a very important role in this transition. He was the only one really responsible for such victories as his father won over the Philistines, because it was his fearless trust in the Lord which showed the Israelites the actual weakness of their enemy. In chapter 13 we learn that when Jonathan was in command of a third of his father's small army, he boldly attacked and overcame one of the Philistine garrisons; and in our chapter today he attacks the main body of the Philistines with no one but his armor-bearer to help him. The setting of this story reminds us forcibly of the words of Abraham in the parable of the rich man and Lazarus: "Between us and you there is a great gulf fixed." It is the same gulf which Jonathan and his armor-bearer crossed when they climbed down one rock and up another — down the rock of self-confidence and up the rock of reliance upon the Lord. The parable, however, treats of the condition in the other life when the gulf has become "fixed" by our refusal to cross it in this world.

The initial slaughter by Jonathan and his armor-bearer resulted immediately in a great trembling in the army of the Philistines. They were thrown into confusion and began to fall upon each other. A similar phenomenon occurred in the story of Gideon. It is an accurate picture of what happens to the Philistine attitude in us when we make even a small attack upon it in the Lord's name. The arguments which have supported our pride in our own intelligence are immediately discovered to be really weak and conflicting, and they melt away.

The incident of Jonathan's eating the honey is very interesting.

Honey represents enjoyment of a natural kind. Many of the literal commands of the Word would seem, like Saul, to forbid such enjoyment, and many Christian groups through the centuries have based their claim to salvation on the renunciation of all natural pleasures. While Saul, symbolizing the natural understanding of the meaning of the Word, is on the throne, we feel with Jonathan that any indulgence may have been a sin. But Jonathan was given to see that his father's command had been unwise and the people supported Jonathan because his victories had proved to them that the Lord was with him rather than with his father. The ascetic life is not the life the Lord wishes us to live. The good things of this world are created by Him for our enjoyment and are means by which we are enabled to serve Him and our neighbor.

Isaiah 7:14-15 tells us: "Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel. Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil, and choose the good." Jonathan's eyes were enlightened when he had tasted the honey.

