
=== Junior

The Juniors are old enough to understand something of the meaning of the change from the Judges to the kings and also of the difference between Saul and Jonathan and of the effect of Jonathan's victory on the host of the Philistines.

Who was the last of the Judges?

Samuel was a different kind of Judge. He was brought up in the tabernacle and was not a fighting man. But he had a greater power than physical strength. He was a prophet as well as a Judge. The Lord spoke through him and all the people recognized that he had been appointed by the Lord to tell them what they ought to do. He had a regular circuit, as some of our judges do today, going around each year to certain appointed towns to judge all the cases that were brought before him (1 Samuel 7:15-17). He called the people to repent and promised them that if they would obey the Lord, the Lord would save them from their enemies.

The enemies were still there, however, and the people could not get over their fear or quite trust the Lord. They wanted to fight their enemies and they wanted someone to lead them in battle. They saw that every other nation had a king and asked Samuel to give them one. Samuel was very much disappointed by their lack of trust, but the Lord told him to let them have a king and showed him what king to choose. The Lord always does the best He can for us. When we make mistakes and refuse to obey Him fully, He finds some other way to teach us — some way which we will understand. The king He told Samuel to anoint was Saul, a young man who stood head and shoulders taller than all the others. As this was just the kind of man the people thought they wanted, they willingly accepted Saul as their king.

Saul was a brave and bold young man, and he very soon won a victory over the Ammonites — the same enemy whom Jephthah had overcome, you remember. But Saul, like most people who depend on physical strength, was inclined to be self-confident and hasty. He knew that Samuel was appointed by the Lord to be his advisor, but he was not always willing to wait for Samuel's advice or to follow it exactly. So the Lord could not continue to be with him, any more than He could be with the Israelites when they brought the ark out of the tabernacle without asking Him.

But Saul had a son who was of a different character.

Who was this son?

What enemy was attacking again?

What did Jonathan decide to do?

Who went with him?

What did Jonathan say to his armor-bearer about the Lord? What sign did he ask of the Lord?

William Worcester tells us in The Sower some interesting things about the place where Jonathan won his victory. The two great rocks are still there, one on either side of a narrow gorge with a brook at the bottom. The gorge runs east and west. The rock on the north side is always in full sunlight, and was called Bozez, which means "shining." Seneh is the name of a thorny shrub which probably grew on the other rock. It is the same word that is used of the burning bush from which the Lord spoke to Moses.

How many men did Jonathan and his armor-bearer kill?

What was the effect on the rest of the army?

There are several instances in the Bible in which a small victory causes the enemy's army to start fighting each other, making them easy to overcome. I wonder if you can see what this means. You know that you have little temptations every day. If you trust the Lord and have the courage to do right in these small battles, you will be surprised at how much weaker the big temptations will seem afterward. Saul and his army were able to attack the Philistines, who had seemed so strong before, and to drive them back into their own part of the country. But Saul never really overcame the Philistines, as the last verse of chapter 14 tells us.

Saul showed his lack of wisdom in another way in our lesson.

What order did Saul give to his men when they started to pursue the Philistines?

Who disobeyed through ignorance?

What did Jonathan eat?

What did he say about Saul's order when he heard of it?

What did he try to do to Jonathan?

Who saved Jonathan?

