
=== Senior

The Seniors have not yet reached the period pictured by the kings, but their thinking is already similar to that of Saul in that their decisions as to what is right are apt to be hasty and based on a superficial understanding of the truth. So this lesson can easily be made practical and helpful to them.

---
The period of the Judges, when the people were being brought to realize that there is nothing in which lurk so many dangers as in self-confidence and self-satisfaction, was followed by the period of the three great kings, Saul, David, and Solomon. In the Word a king always represents a ruling principle: the good kings truth ruling, and the evils kings falsity ruling. We need to be able to work out our problems on the basis of some overall accepted standard. Samuel was angry when the people asked him to give them a king, feeling that they should have been satisfied with his direction, since he had never done them anything but good. But the Lord told Samuel to grant the people's request, only making sure that they understood that life under a king would require of them many sacrifices. Samuel's rule represents a state of simple, childlike trust and obedience. We are actually safer and less troubled in such a state, but it does not satisfy our natural desire to think and decide for ourselves, and we have seen that the Lord always permits us to exercise our freedom and rationality even though it is certain that we shall make mistakes and often have to learn the hard way.

The first king — pointed out to Samuel by the Lord Himself and afterward chosen by lot in the sight of all the people — was Saul. He was the only kind of king the people would have accepted at that stage, an active young man of impressive appearance. He represents the truth of the Lord as it first appears to us when we wish to be governed by it, something to obey and follow in an aggressive approach to the problems of life. Saul accepted his appointment with sincere humility and with the intention of being directed by the Lord through the mouth of Samuel. In just the same way, at the start we mean to be humble and to look to the Lord for guidance. Saul immediately won a victory over the Ammonites, who as we remember from the story of Jephthah represent external rather than internal temptations. But his self-confidence was aroused by his victory and in his next conflict he went ahead on his own instead of waiting for Samuel as he had been told to do, and this broke his connection with the Lord and made it impossible for him ever again to be completely victorious.

This shows us the nature of our first idea of the Divine. We mean well, but we feel so sure of our own judgment that we go ahead without waiting to make sure we are right. Our lesson for today contains a very clear example of this in Saul's foolish command to his men not to eat anything until they had completed their pursuit of the enemy. We cannot go all the way to spiritual victory in one burst of speed. As we learned in the lesson on the quail and manna, the Lord gives us nourishment day by day, with natural pleasures also when we need them, and regular sabbaths of rest. The way to heaven is a lifelong road to be followed under the Lord's constant direction.

But our first idea of the rule of truth — which is based on what in the story of Ishmael we learned to call our natural reason — does produce some genuine good. It teaches us by experience something which has before been mere memory-knowledge with us, the fact that the Lord really can give us power to overcome in temptation. This conviction is pictured by Saul's son Jonathan. He also was brave and eager, but he did not depend on himself. His character is summed up in his words to his armor-bearer: "It may be that the Lord will work for us: for there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few." And he also left to the Lord the decision as to whether or not the time was ripe for attack.

The result of Jonathan's small victory was the opening of the way for the dispersion of the Philistine army, which was seized with a "trembling" and began to beat down one another. This seems a strange thing in the letter, but there are other stories in the Word in which a similar thing happens. It pictures a very familiar phenomenon. When we are beset by the temptation to do as the world does, the arguments in favor of the world's ways seem very strong; but if we have the courage to defy the world in some instance, the whole structure of worldly argument totters and confusion and conflict arise among its defenders. Try it sometime. When you know you are right about something in which everybody is against you, a simple, well—chosen verse from the Word thrown unexpectedly into the discussion will upset their whole position. This is a very practical reason for reading the Word constantly and memorizing passages from it. Remember how often the Lord answered His opponents by simply quoting the Scriptures. Jonathan represents this confidence in the Lord's power.

Jonathan's eating of the honey is an interesting story in itself.

He had not heard his father's order and so he disobeyed innocently; as soon as he tasted the honey "his eyes were enlightened." So when he was told of his father's command, he could see that it had been a foolish one. Honey represents enjoyment or pleasure, usually of a natural kind. It is mentioned often in the Word. The honey that Jonathan tasted represents a sense of satisfaction in his own accomplishment. Such a feeling, since it has self in it, is contrary to some of the commands of the letter of the Word, but a clearer sight shows us that such a literal interpretation cannot be the true one, for the Lord Himself provides us such moments of satisfaction because they are needed by us in our imperfect states. People in their first zeal often make the way of righteousness unnecessarily hard, as Saul did in this case. The people, however, recognized, as most people usually do, that the ones who really do good are not the ones who are hard on other people; so they refused to allow Saul to destroy Jonathan. In a later lesson we shall see the part which Jonathan played in the transfer of the kingship from Saul to David.

