
=== Intermediate

The difference between the states of reformation and regeneration should be stressed. This may be done through the correspondence of the change of leadership. The meaning of the Jordan and the central place of the ark in the story, and the need of having the "courage of our convictions" are important points. The teacher should keep in mind, however, that the Intermediates themselves are still "in Egypt" and that for them all this is necessary memory-knowledge — the "corn" (grain) being stored up in Egypt.

Deuteronomy means a "second naming" or repetition. The book of Deuteronomy is a summing up by Moses in his last days on earth of the dealings of the Lord with the Israelites from the time when they first encamped at Sinai to their arrival at the Jordan River, and a reiteration of the commandments and many other laws given them at Sinai. It closes with Moses' song of thanksgiving to the Lord, his solemn charge to the people to observe the law, his blessing of the twelve tribes, and finally his being called by the Lord up to the top of Mount Nebo, where he was permitted to view the Holy Land spread out far below, and then his death. For even Moses had on one occasion disobeyed the Lord (Numbers 20:7-13) and could not enter the Holy Land.

Joshua had been appointed by the Lord to succeed Moses as leader of the Israelites. We hear of Joshua first in Exodus 17 when, in the first battle Israel fought, he led the army against the Amalekites while Moses went up on top of the mountain and Aaron and Hur helped him keep his hands uplifted to the Lord until Amalek was defeated. Joshua continued to be the leader of Israel's army. In the story of the sending out of the spies (Numbers 13-14), Joshua and Caleb were the only ones of the twelve spies who, after searching out the land of Canaan, encouraged the people to go forward immediately and conquer it because the Lord would be with them and give them the victory. Because the people refused to trust the Lord and instead followed the advice of the other ten spies, the Lord told Moses that of all the men who at that time were twenty years of age and over — old enough to vote in the matter — only Joshua and Caleb should ever enter the Holy Land. The others would all die in the wilderness. That was why the pillar of cloud and fire kept them wandering from place to place for forty years before it finally brought them to Jordan. The people who follow Joshua into the Holy Land in our story for today — except for Caleb — are the young people and children who have grown up in the wilderness, and their children.

Nevertheless, it was a great host of people, with many little children and all their tents and household goods and their flocks and herds. Joshua 3:15 tells us that they reached the Jordan at harvest time and that the river at that time was always at flood. You remember that the wilderness journey represents the period of reformation, when we are obeying the truth because we know we ought to but against all our natural inclinations. If we keep trying, however, the time comes when our natural inclinations to rebel — like the people who had been brought up in Egypt — have died out, and we find that we are no longer unwilling to obey or afraid in the face of temptations and difficulties. This is the harvest of all our efforts, when we can begin to gather the good fruit, the real enjoyment of doing right. There is only one more river to cross, and when the Lord shows us how to cross it, we are no longer afraid to try. We have learned to trust our leader. Moses and Joshua both represent the Lord's truth, but whereas Moses represents the law of the Lord obeyed from a sense of duty, Joshua represents this same law obeyed willingly and eagerly. Joshua, Swedenborg says, represents "the truth fighting." The entrance into the Holy Land represents the beginning of real regeneration, when we have set our outer lives in order and begin to search out and overcome the evils which are within us. These evils are the strong enemies who lived within the Holy Land itself. We use the same law of the Lord to direct us, but we use it now by our own will, because the Lord has been able to give us a new will very different from our old selfish will. This change in our will is regeneration — being "born again."

The name Jordan means "the descender." In a little more than two hundred miles the Jordan descends from the mountains of Lebanon to the Dead Sea, the lowest spot on the face of the earth. This pictures the truth from the Lord flowing down to people in the very lowest possible spiritual states. The Jordan is also the boundary of the Holy Land on the east, and you remember that the east, where the sun rises, represents the Lord. So the truths pictured by the Jordan are those truths which introduce us into the land of heavenly living, the primary truths of the Word such as that the Lord is our Heavenly Father, that all good and truth are from Him, and that He can help us only as we are willing to obey Him. We all want to enter the Holy Land. What is it that makes these simple truths appear as a barrier just when we are ready to enter — at the time of harvest? It is the enemies in the land, the evils deep within us. When our "Holy Land" is full of evil tendencies, they make these introductory truths seem false.* Even after all our experience with the Lord's goodness to us, can we really believe that everything that happens to us is a sign of the Lord's love for us, and that the only right way of life is the way of obedience to the commandments?

[*See @AE 700[12]-[13] where Swedenborg takes note of the basic correspondence of Jordan, but notes that here "its waters signify falsities of evil." Thus "they were parted and removed to give a passage to the sons of Israel, who were to represent the church." After the people had passed over, "the waters returned. Then these same waters signified truths that introduce." — Editor]

At Joshua's command the priests bearing the ark stepped boldly forward into the river, and immediately the river parted. And so long as the ark remained in the midst of the channel, the waters were held back and the people passed over safely. So long as we keep the commandments central in our thinking and go forward boldly, the Lord can keep the way open before us.

You remember that stones represent foundation truths. Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan and twelve stones from Jordan at Gilgal, their first encampment in the Holy Land. These were to serve forever as reminders of what they had been enabled to do that day. Think of this and read the Lord's charge to Joshua (Joshua 1:6-9), which is a charge to everyone who wishes to achieve a heavenly character and so live in heaven both here and in the life after death.

