
=== Junior

With this class a little more should be done with the reason for the long stay in the wilderness. The figure of Joshua may be made central in this introduction. The whole emphasis in the story should be on the necessity of trust in the Lord, obedience to the commandments, and the courage to do right. If children of this age can be given the thought that yielding to temptation is cowardly and that doing right is brave, it will help them in their daily decisions.

---
Now we come to the story of how the Israelites actually entered the Holy Land. The murmurings and rebellions of the people had kept them in the wilderness for forty years. We often make it hard for our parents to do all they would like to do for us by not obeying them. There is a right way to behave, and it is always the best way for us in the end. The Lord had promised Abraham and Isaac and Jacob that the land of Canaan should belong to their descendants — this is why it is often called the Promised Land — but they were to be sure always to obey Him. The Lord promises us that we shall live forever in heaven if we will only obey Him. The land of Canaan, or the Holy Land, is a symbol of heaven. But heaven is not only a place where good people go after they die; it is a heavenly character in this world. People who obey the Lord are really living in heaven here because they have His unselfish love in their hearts and are not always thinking about themselves and what they want that they do not happen to have. So in the story of the Israelites the people who were always dissatisfied and rebellious could not enter the Holy Land.

Perhaps you remember the story (Numbers 13-14) of how Moses, at the command of the Lord, sent twelve men, one from each tribe, to "spy out" the Holy Land and come back and tell the people about it. All the spies reported that it was a wonderful land, but ten of them said the enemies in the land were so strong that they could not be overcome. Only two of the spies, Joshua and Caleb, urged the people to go ahead and enter the land. They said that the Lord would be with them and give them the victory. But all the people listened to the ten and refused to try to take the land. So the Lord said all the people must stay in the wilderness until every one of the cowards was dead. Only Joshua and Caleb and the children and young people who had not been old enough at the time to have a vote in the matter should ever enter the Holy Land. Even Moses and Aaron were to die before they entered it. "I can't" never gets us anywhere.

Moses was allowed to see the Holy Land. The last chapter of Deuteronomy tells us how, when the Israelites at the end of their forty years of wandering reached their last encampment not far from the Jordan River, the Lord called Moses up to the top of Mount Nebo and showed him all the Holy Land spread out far below him. Then Moses died.

Joshua had been appointed by the Lord to lead the Israelites in their conquest of the Holy Land. Joshua was a fighting man. He had been the leader of the army all through the forty years in the wilderness. After the death of Moses the Lord gave Joshua a solemn charge. Read it in Joshua 1:6-9.

In the thirty-third chapter of Numbers you will find a list of all the encampments of the Israelites from the time they left Egypt to the time of our lesson for today. Verse 48 of that chapter gives their final stop in the wilderness: "And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho." From this encampment Joshua sent two men across the Jordan to spy out the immediate country and especially the walled city of Jericho, which would be the first obstacle in their way after they crossed the river. When the men came back, the people advanced to the edge of the Jordan and remained there until the third day looking at the river which barred their further progress, for they were a great host of people with many children and all their tents and household goods and cattle — and they had no boats. You notice, however, that this time there is no statement that they were doubtful or afraid.

What was the condition of the river at this time? (verse 15)

Who were to go first?

What were they to carry?

What was in the ark?

What happened when the foot of the first priest touched the brink of the river?

Where did the priests bearing the ark stop?

What did Joshua set up in the middle of the river bed?

What did he order one man from each tribe to do?

Who were the last people to come up out of the river?

What happened as soon as they had crossed?

What did Joshua do with the twelve stones the men carried?

Why did he do this?

This first encampment of the Israelites in the Holy Land, where the stones were set up for a memorial, was named Gilgal. Gilgal means "rolling." Read Joshua 5:9 to see why this name was given to the place. Like the Israelites we are sometimes very, very slow to make up our minds to be brave enough to shake off our selfish ways and go forward in the Lord's way. But when we finally do, the way opens before us — because the Lord can be with us when we follow the commandments. Now read Joshua 5:10-12 as the end of our story for today.

