
=== Notes for Parents

People have long seen that in the Bible the land of Canaan — the Holy Land or the Promised Land — is a picture of heaven, and that the Jordan River is a picture of the dividing line or boundary between this world and heaven. But we need to realize that heaven is not just a place where good people go when they die. It is a state in which truly good people live while they are in this world. In fact, if we have not reached this heavenly character before we die, we shall not be able to live in heaven after death.

There are stages in our spiritual journey in this life, just as there were stages in the journey of the children of Israel from Egypt to the Holy Land. We do not become heavenly people all at once.

And there are two dividing lines to be crossed in this journey. The first is the line between completely worldly living and the determination to obey the Lord. This is pictured in the Bible by the Red Sea. The second is the line between obeying the Lord because we know we ought to and obeying Him because we love to. This is the Jordan River. The wilderness journey of struggle and trials lies between.

Both the Red Sea and the Jordan River seemed impassable to the Israelites, but when they went forward boldly, the Lord opened the way for them. So it is with us. Our natural worldliness and selfishness make obedience to the Lord and especially any real enjoyment in obedience seem impossible. But we need to remember that "with the Lord all things are possible." If we obey the commandments faithfully, the time will surely come when we pass over Jordan into a state of willing and joyful obedience which is heaven in this world as well as in the next. As we have told the Older Children in their notes, "I can't" never gets us anywhere. Joshua was given two charges by the Lord and these charges are meant for every one of us. One was that he must always read and meditate upon the book of the law and do as it taught. The other was that he must be "strong and of a good courage."

