
=== Primary

Stress the foolishness of the Israelites in not trusting and obeying the Lord, and the lesson which its result teaches us. The children will enjoy the story of the crossing of the Jordan from the Word, and should learn the names Joshua and Jordan. Read also the Lord's charge to Joshua (Joshua 1:7-8). In covering today's story, stress the fact that it was the ark containing the commandments which opened the way and held back the flood while they crossed. Stress also the importance of not being afraid to go forward in the right way.

You remember how the people rebelled against Moses and Aaron, through whom the Lord was leading and teaching them. They were traveling toward the Holy Land, which is sometimes called the Promised Land because the Lord had promised Abraham that it should belong to his descendants. If they had been willing and obedient, they could have made the whole journey from Egypt to the Holy Land in a few months. But because they were so unwilling to obey, the Lord could not give them their promised land until all the people who were dissatisfied had died off. You know how often we lose things because we are foolish and will not mind our parents.

To what country were the Israelites traveling?

Do you know how long they were on the way altogether?

It was their constant murmuring and disobedience that held them back. The Holy Land stands for a heavenly character.

We cannot have a heavenly character until we learn to trust and obey the Lord. Even Moses and Aaron were not wholly obedient and died in the wilderness. Whom did the Lord appoint to be leader after Moses died?

What was the eastern boundary of the Holy Land?

In order to enter the Holy Land they had to cross the River Jordan. They reached it just at the time of year when the water was very high and was overflowing the fields on both sides of the river. Here was this great army of people with their wives and children and all their tents and their household belongings and their cattle — and they had no boats. What were they to do?

Who led the way into the river?

What were they carrying?

What happened?

What did Joshua set up in the midst of the Jordan?

What did he set up on the other side after they had all crossed?

Why did he set up these stones?

What was the name of the place where they set up the stones and camped? The Lord will always help us if we have courage to do right, even when it looks hard.

