
=== Senior

The important lesson for this age group is the difference between setting our outward conduct in order and actually beginning to search out and overcome our inward foes. The law of the Lord, as summed up in the commandments, is our guide and support in both efforts, but there is a change in our attitude toward it — a new will — when regeneration begins.

With this lesson we come to the end of the period of "reformation" pictured by the wilderness journey. What makes it seem so hard for us to remake our outward lives in the order prescribed by the Lord is the persistence of the worldly standards developed during our life of slavery in Egypt. The Israelites were not allowed to reach their final encampment near the Jordan until all these unwilling followers of Moses had died. Those who encamped by the Jordan had been only children in Egypt and had all done their growing up in the wilderness, except for two men, Joshua and Caleb. Even Moses, although he was allowed to view the Holy Land from the top of Mount Nebo, died on that mountain and never set foot in the land. Moses represents the law of the Lord followed from the mere principle of obedience.

Joshua, Swedenborg says, represents "the truth fighting." When outward obedience has finally become so habitual as to be willing obedience, actual regeneration begins. Then — and not until then - we are ready to search out and overcome our inner evils. It takes far more courage to conquer these inward foes than to do right outwardly. Joshua is given two great charges: "Be strong and of a good courage" and "This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein." These are both essential to regeneration.

Everything in the Scriptures may have both a good and a bad correspondence, depending upon whether at the moment it is a friend or a foe of the spiritual progress of man. This is only to say that goodness or badness is never in the outward expression or act, but is in the motive which is behind it. A man may keep all the commandments outwardly from the selfish desire to appear good and to receive honor and profit from his neighbors. The devil can quote Scripture, as we may remember from the story of the Lord's temptations in the wilderness.

So the Jordan River, which almost always represents the Lord's truth flowing down from its pure source through all the planes of life to the very lowest, pictures in our lesson today the opposite of this truth.

The Jordan is the boundary of the Holy Land, those simple truths without which no one can enter a heavenly state of life. But when the Holy Land is full of evil people and the Jordan bars the entrance of the Israelites, it represents the false ideas in the mind which must be overcome before one can enter upon the conquest of his deeper evils — ideas, perhaps, of one's own importance and wisdom. The priests bearing the ark are our religious principles which rally around the Lord's laws as their guide and protector. These are told to go forward boldly, and before them the apparent barrier draws back. As long as they stand firm, the people — all our other affections and thoughts — can pass through safely into the Holy Land. There are still many enemies to face, but the line has been crossed and we have gained a sure foothold in heavenly living.

We have said that the crossing of the Red Sea pictures our first decision to "be good," to follow the Lord instead of the world and our own desires. We have gone a long way since then, fighting our bad habits and bringing our outward conduct into order. Now we cross another barrier of water and begin to enjoy the good life and to face confidently the foes which will keep cropping up within our hearts and minds as long as we live in this world.

Joshua's first act in this new land was to set up twelve stones from the river as a memorial to be pointed out to future generations. These twelve stones are the fundamental truths of the Word which we are to set up in our minds in the very beginning of the regenerate life so that we may never forget the mercy and saving power of the Lord; so that, no matter how successful we may be in our efforts, we may never attribute our success to our own wisdom and goodness or imagine we have got beyond the necessity of keeping the commandments.

