
=== Adult

Although the meaning of Babylon and the application of the lesson to Babylon should be brought to the attention of the Adults, the meaning developed in the quotation from @AE 411[4] should probably be given the greater part of the class time. Call attention to the fact that Babylon first appears in the Scriptures in the form of Babel and that it is not finally disposed of until chapter 18 of Revelation. It is our arch—enemy from the cradle to the grave.

---
The prophet Daniel, the fourth of the Major Prophets, was a member of the royal family of Judah and was carried to Babylon as a boy or very young man during the reign of Jehoiakim in Judah, when Babylon first invaded Judah and put it to tribute, thus before either of the two general deportations. We should read the first chapter of Daniel as a basis for understanding our lesson for today.

We remember that the ancient Jewish nation was only representative of a true church, and that it became more and more false to its original commission until it could no longer serve in that function. We remember, too, that Babylon represents "the love of dominion from the love of self," the spiritual enemy which finally captivates the heart of the man who ceases to look to the Lord for guidance and to obey Him. So we may understand the meaning of Swedenborg's summary interpretation of chapter 1 in Prophets and Psalms: "When the church among the Jewish nation had been destroyed, 'Babylon' appropriated to herself all things pertaining to it. She wished to know all things of the church, and to acquire an understanding of them, and this was the beginning of 'Babylon'." Here Swedenborg is using Babylon to designate a particular type of church in the world, and this application of the meaning in Prophets and Psalms is continued through chapter 6. Then in chapter 7, which marks a transition, the application to the general history of the churches from the beginning is introduced, and the rest of the summary continues this larger application. In the light of this change it is interesting to read part of the Rev. William Hayden's account of the book of Daniel in Our Heavenly Father's Book:

The introduction to the book (Chap. i) is written in Hebrew, Daniel's native tongue. But when, as in the next chapter, he came to speak of and with the Chaldeans, who 'spake to the king in Syriac' (verse 4), he changed his language, and spake and wrote in their tongue, the Syriac or Chaldean, sometimes called also Aramaic. So from Daniel 2:4 to end of Daniel 7 it is in Chaldee, a language having the same characters and varying very little from the Hebrew. At the beginning of chapter 8, where Daniel resumes his own experiences as a prophet of the Lord, he returns to the Hebrew, and continues that to the end of the book.

The book thus is partly historical and partly prophetical. The prophecies may be divided into two parts; the first, those written in Chaldee, Chap. 2-7, giving an account of Belshazzar's feast, the den of lions, and the vision of the four beasts ascending out of the sea.

The second part, written in Hebrew, contains the vision of the ram and he-goat, Chap. viii.; Daniel's prayer and the unfolding of the prophecy of the seventy years by the Angel Gabriel, Chap. ix.; the fourth prophetic vision, which Daniel had in the third year of Cyrus, fills the last three chapters. The wonderful appearance of the Lord to him, in Chap. x., should receive careful study.

The close analogy between Daniel's prophecies and the Book of Revelation, has been recognized by nearly all commentators. Not only the first coming of the Lord, but His second coming also is foretold; and events connected with the Lord's spiritual kingdom on earth are foreshadowed, from the beginning of Christianity to the very last ages, yet to come.

In the writings both the particular and the general application of the spiritual meaning of the image are given in some detail. The one application shows us in a striking way the danger of allowing the love of dominion to gain power in our hearts. This love is often unrecognized at first. We recall that Hezekiah received the ambassadors of the king of Babylon as friends and showed them all his treasures, and that Isaiah was sent to him with the message: "Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day, shall be carried into Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the Lord."

But there are many more passages in the writings which cite Nebuchadnezzar's image as picturing the whole history of the church from the beginning. Such a passage is the following from @AE 411[4]: "'The head of the image' which was gold, signifies the Most Ancient Church, which was a celestial church, or a church in which the good of love to the Lord reigned; this good is signified in the Word by 'gold,' and also by 'the head'; 'the breast' and 'the arms' which were silver, signify the Ancient Church, which succeeded the Most Ancient, and this church was a spiritual church, or a church in which the good of charity towards the neighbor, and truth from that good, reigned; this truth and good are signified by 'silver,' and also by 'the breast' and 'the arms'; 'the belly and the thighs which were brass' signify the church which succeeded the ancient spiritual church and which may be called spiritual—natural; in this church the good of faith and the truth from that good reigned; this good is signified in the Word by 'brass,' and also by 'the belly' and 'the thighs'; but 'the legs and the feet, which were part iron and part clay,' signify the Israelitish and Jewish Church, which was an external church without any internal, and which therefore had no truth and good, but truth falsified which in itself is falsity, and good adulterated which in itself is evil; therefore it is said respecting it in this chapter: 'Whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry clay, they shall mingle themselves with the seed of man; but they shall not cohere one with the other, even as iron doth not mingle with clay (verse 43).' 'Iron' signifies natural truth, and 'miry clay' natural good; 'the feet and legs' have a like meaning; but here 'clay' signifies good adulterated, and 'iron' such truth as there is in the external sense of the Word; for 'the seed of man' means the Word where there are goods and truths, the adulterations and falsifications of which are described by 'iron mixed with clay, which do not cohere one with the other.' ... 'The stone' that smote the image means Divine truth from the Lord; that 'it became a great rock and filled the whole earth' signifies that the Lord by Divine truth is to rule over heaven and the church."

The love of dominion is in all of us by inheritance. Babylon appears in the Word first as the Tower of Babel, the consummation of the Ancient Church. We need to recognize this evil in ourselves whenever and in whatever guise it crops up, and to fight it as the most subtle and deadly enemy of our spiritual life.

That it can be successfully resisted we learn from the story of Daniel. The character of Daniel stands out in sharp contrast to the state pictured by Babylon. Although he was one of those youths selected for his ability and education, he never took credit to himself for his wisdom. In the face of one danger after another he remained boldly faithful to the principles of his religion. In every emergency he looked to the Lord for guidance. He was true to his friends and also never bitter or resentful toward those who sought to injure him. And success and power had no bad effect on him. He retained both to the end of his life under several rulers and national sovereignties. Daniel, like Joseph, shows how divine power can express itself through the life of a person who is consistently humble before the Lord and obedient to His precepts. Daniel and Joseph are both examples of the man to whom, as we saw in our lesson on Psalm 91, the promises of protection by the Lord and the angels are addressed.

