
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The story in itself is a powerful one, and the lessons to be drawn from the letter are important for this age group also. The spiritual meaning is a little beyond children of this age, but the evil represented by Babylon can be understood and should be stressed. The teacher will be able to think of examples of this evil which are within the experience of the class, for it rears its ugly head even on the playground and in the classroom.

---
In our lessons on the book of Psalms we noted that the ancient Hebrews did not include the Psalms in their canon of most sacred Scripture, but that the Lord Himself restored this book to its proper authority. The same is true of the book of Daniel. The Israelites classed it with their "Sacred Writings," which were not thought to be divinely inspired; but the Lord in Matthew 24:15 refers to Daniel as one of the Prophets. The four Major Prophets are Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. They are called Major only because of the length of their books. The books of the twelve Minor Prophets are all short.

Daniel was one of the royal children in Judah in the days of Jehoiakim, the second son of Josiah to follow him on the throne. Jehoiakim was placed on the throne by the king of Egypt, who carried off to Egypt his older brother Jehoahaz, who had become king when Josiah died. But we learn from 2 Kings 24:1 that the king of Babylon began to besiege Jerusalem during Jehoiakim's reign and from 2 Kings 24:7 that at that time the king of Babylon took the control of the whole country away from the king of Egypt.

We should read the first chapter of Daniel as an introduction to our lesson for today. We learn from it that Daniel and his three friends — whom we know best by their Chaldee names of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego — were among a group of royal children carried to Babylon because of their superior education and ability, to be brought up in the learning of the Chaldeans. So Daniel was one of the first captives taken to Babylon. We also learn that Daniel and his three friends were brave enough to remain true to the religion in which they had been brought up, and that for this reason the Lord could prosper them and give them wisdom above their fellows, and that Daniel — like Joseph long before — was given "understanding in all visions and dreams."

Before we study the meaning of Nebuchadnezzar's dream, let us notice a lesson which comes to us clearly in the letter of the story. Daniel, like Joseph (Genesis 41:16), did not attribute his wisdom to himself, but recognized and acknowledged openly that it came from the Lord. When he heard the decree of Nebuchadnezzar that the wise men should be killed, his immediate impulse was to turn to the Lord for guidance and help and to ask for the prayers of his friends also. So we have in Daniel an outstanding example of humility and trust in the Lord, as well as of obedience and courage. And the result of this humility was that Nebuchadnezzar afterward in raising Daniel to riches and honor also acknowledged that Daniel's God was "a God of gods, and a Lord of kings." If we follow Daniel's example and do not take credit to ourselves for any goodness or wisdom we may have, we help to bring other people to a recognition of the Lord, and thus advance the kingdom of heaven. There is also in the letter the example of Daniel's desire to save the other wise men as well as himself and his friends (verse 24), and his immediate thought for his three friends when he came into power (verse 49).

Daniel is the only one of the Prophets who attained worldly success and prosperity. Our doctrines teach us that riches and honors do not hurt those who do not set their hearts on them, but recognize that they are given them as means to serve the Lord. We might note that we have testimony to Daniel's position in Babylon from Ezekiel, the other prophet whose message was given during the captivity (see Ezekiel 14:14 and 28:3). Daniel continued in high honor into the reign of Cyrus, under whom some of the Jews were allowed to return to the Holy Land. True and lasting honor is never attained except by one who is humble and God—fearing.

In the letter Daniel interprets Nebuchadnezzar's dream as foretelling the future history of the people of Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar would of course understand it in this way. All history is controlled by divine providence. As Daniel says in our chapter (verse 21), "He removeth kings, and setteth up kings." The history of that part of the country was one of successive conquest by different nations. In our Bible so far we have seen enemies first from that region called Syria, then Assyria, then Babylon, and before the end of the Old Testament we find Darius the Mede and then Cyrus the Persian ruling there. But even in the letter the final kingdom, which is to last forever, is said to be a kingdom set up by "the God of heaven." The kingdom of heaven is the only permanent kingdom.

In its spiritual meaning Nebuchadnezzar's image pictures the decline of the kind of church which is called Babylon. You remember from our lesson on king Josiah that Babylon represents "the love of dominion from the love of self." How can such a love be associated with a church? The answer is that the love of dominion is something which develops gradually and often is not recognized for a long time. Perhaps you remember from an earlier lesson that when messengers of the king of Babylon visited king Hezekiah, they said they came as friends because their king had heard that Hezekiah had been sick, and Hezekiah received them as friends and showed them all his treasures. And in our story of Daniel Nebuchadnezzar wanted young men brought from Judah who were "skillful in all wisdom," and after Daniel interpreted his dream, he was willing to acknowledge Daniel's God. This is why Nebuchadnezzar can be called the head of gold of the image, for the head represents wisdom and gold the good of love to the Lord. In the beginning a person in whom the love of dominion lies hidden may be eager for knowledge of the Lord and active in worship and good deeds. But as the love of dominion begins to assert itself, the person first loses love to the Lord although he still loves the knowledge he has acquired. This is the breast and arms of silver. Then he comes to think that if he does outward good works, he is necessarily a good person and to be praised. This is the belly and thighs of brass. Then he stops doing good works but thinks he is good because he is perhaps a member of the church and knows its teachings. This is the legs of iron. But by this time a great deal of falsity has become mixed up with his religion. His conduct is directed partly according to true principles and partly by false ones, and the two do not hold together. This is the feet part of iron and part of clay. In the light of genuine truth — the stone cut out without hands — there is then nothing left of his goodness and wisdom. Nebuchadnezzar's image is really a picture of the whole history of mankind who in the beginning, you remember, were in love to the Lord, but gradually turned toward themselves and lost their goodness and then their knowledge, until finally only the coming of the Lord Himself into the world could save them. When Peter said to the Lord, "Thou art the Christ," the Lord said, "On this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it." The Lord came into the world as divine truth, and this was the stone which grew into a great mountain.

