
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
There are some good lessons in this chapter for Older Children. The example of Daniel, like that of Joseph, points to humility and trust in the Lord as the way to real success in life. In taking up the interpretation of the destruction of the image as Daniel gave it to Nebuchadnezzar, point out that the stone introduces a lasting kingdom which "the God of heaven" is to set up, and say that this image has deeper meanings which they will study when they are older. They can understand now that the only lasting kingdom is the rule of the Lord in our hearts and minds — the kingdom of heaven.

---
Even the great reforms which good king Josiah carried out could not make the people of Judah over into good people, and Judah was finally conquered by the king of Babylon and all but the poorest of the people were carried away into captivity in Babylon. Two of the four men whom we call the Major Prophets were among these captives. They were Ezekiel and Daniel. Look in your Bibles right after the book called Solomon's Song and see whose names are given to the next two books. These were the first two Major Prophets. The book called Lamentations is really just a continuation of Jeremiah.

Now write the names of the four Major Prophets in order.

They were called Major because their books are much longer than those of the twelve Minor Prophets which follow them.

Daniel was among the very first group to be carried away to Babylon. This was a very special group. Read about it in Daniel 1:1-7. So you see Daniel was really just a boy when he was taken away from his home. But Daniel and his three companions had already been taught carefully in the religion of their nation. The royal children in Judah were brought up under the care of the high priest. And these four young men were brave enough to remain true to their religion even in captivity. Read how they proved this in Daniel 1:8-16. Now read the last four verses of chapter 1. It often looks to us when we are being tempted as if doing right would bring us into difficulty and make us unhappy, but the fact is that it is only when we do right that the Lord can help us.

Our chapter for today reminds us of a story we had earlier. Let us see if you can remember it.

Who was sold into captivity in Egypt?

Why was the Lord able to prosper him?

What special ability did He give him?

What brought him to Pharaoh's attention?

What did he do for Pharaoh?

What office did Pharaoh give him?

See how close this is to Daniel's experience. You remember, too, that Pharaoh's dreams were pictures of something that was to happen to his nation.

What did Nebuchadnezzar see in his dream?

What metal was the head of the image made of?

What were the next two metals?

What were the legs made of?

What were the feet made of?

What was the weak spot in the image?

What destroyed the image?

What happened to the stone afterward?

What did Daniel say the golden head symbolized?

What were pictured by the other parts of the image?

What did the king do for Daniel?

What did Daniel do for his three friends?

There is something else in this story which we should notice particularly. Read Genesis 41:15-16. Now read Daniel 2:27-30. You see that both Joseph and Daniel wanted to be sure that the king knew that their wisdom was not their own but came from the Lord. And in verse 47 of our chapter we find that Nebuchadnezzar acknowledged that Daniel's God must be the greatest of the gods. And it was because he knew that God was with Daniel that he made him ruler in Babylon. Sometimes you will hear people say that a person must have a great deal of self-confidence if he wants to succeed in life. But if we think a little, we realize that we are always a little suspicious of people who think very highly of themselves, and that the people we really trust are those who are trying to do right and thinking of the welfare of other people. We must remember this when we are tempted to try to put ourselves ahead of other people or to despise someone who cannot do just what we can do or who disagrees with us. All our abilities come to us as gifts from the Lord, and they are meant to be used in His service.

