
=== Primary

The teacher should tell the children the beginning of the story of Daniel as we find it in chapter 1. Stress Daniel's courage in refusing to do what he had been taught was wrong, and the fact that the Lord can help us when we do right. This was the foundation of Daniel's becoming a great man. At the end of the lesson draw a parallel between Daniel and Joseph. See how much the children remember of the Joseph story. Do you remember our story about good king Josiah who had the temple repaired, and how the book of the law was found and read to him? Josiah tried hard to do everything the Lord commanded in the book of the law, and he tried to make the people of Judah give up their evil ways and obey the Lord again. But the people had become too bad. After Josiah died, they went back to their same old evil ways and finally the Lord allowed the king of Babylon, whose name was Nebuchadnezzar, to conquer Judah and take most of the people away to Babylon.

---
Among the very first to be taken were some young princes.

Nebuchadnezzar wanted some especially bright and well-educated young men who could be taught the language and the learning of the Chaldeans (the people of Babylon) and so be very useful to him.

One of these young men was Daniel. The king gave him the Chaldean name of Belteshazzar. Daniel was just the kind of person the king wanted, but he was also one of those who was determined to worship his own God. Even at the risk of offending the king he would not do anything he had been brought up to believe was wrong. So the Lord could be with him and he was very wise.

One night king Nebuchadnezzar had a strange dream.

In the morning he could not remember it.

None of his wise men could tell him what it was.

But Daniel prayed to the Lord and the Lord showed him what to tell the king.

What was the king's dream?

What were the different parts of the image made of?

What destroyed the image?

What happened to the stone afterward?

Daniel also told the king what the dream meant.

The king decided that Daniel's God must be the greatest god of all and that Daniel was the wisest man in his kingdom. So he made Daniel very rich and made him chief ruler under himself in the kingdom, just as the king of Egypt had made Joseph ruler of Egypt long before. But Daniel did not become proud, and always continued to obey the Lord in all things.

