
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The Seniors should be impressed with the depths of meaning which are to be found in the story of this dream image and with the variety of applications which it has. But the most important lesson for them is the danger of thinking themselves better and wiser than others and so letting the love of dominion creep into their hearts.

---
You may recall that in the divided kingdom Israel represents the mind and Judah the heart or will. Israel was taken captive by Assyria, which represents false reasoning, but Judah by Babylon, which represents "the love of dominion from the love of self." We meet this love of dominion in many forms in ourselves as well as in others. We all like to think ourselves better than other people and to criticize others for not thinking and doing as we do. Of course we admit in a general way that we don't know everything and that we have faults, but we tend to excuse ourselves and not to excuse others. In any given case we are sure that the person who disagrees with us is wrong, and we are tempted to look for means of discrediting him and in the process to become careless of the truth and quite uncharitable. It is this kind of progressive deterioration of character as a result of the love of dominion which Nebuchadnezzar's image represents in its application to the individual life. We know that gold represents love to the Lord, silver spiritual truth or faith, brass natural goodness, and iron natural truth. Clay is another symbol of natural good, but in a bad sense it is this good turned to evil through being attributed to self. The head is the symbol of wisdom and the feet represent the outward conduct. So the image pictures the fact that even someone who starts with the intention of serving the Lord and a great deal of knowledge of spiritual things may — if he begins to think of his goodness and wisdom as his own and so sets himself above others — reach the point where his conduct toward others is wholly lacking in charity and directed by falsity rather than truth. Then if he is suddenly confronted by divine truth — as, for example, the truth that our conduct must be the expression of unselfish love for the Lord and the neighbor — the whole picture of himself which he has built up in his mind collapses and is blown away.

There are other applications of the meaning of Nebuchadnezzar's dream. In the letter Daniel gave Nebuchadnezzar its historical application. As we learn from chapters 3 and 4, Nebuchadnezzar himself, although he acknowledged Daniel's God with his lips, actually embodied the spirit represented by Babylon, and the kingdom he had built up passed to another nation not long after his death. The Lord is not only the creator and sustainer of the universe but is always in control of history. The rise and fall of nations is according to their service to the Lord or to self. This is something we should always keep in mind in forming our opinions in regard to the policies and conduct of our own nation. For, as we read in Isaiah 60:12, "The nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish." Even in this outmost interpretation of the image you notice that the final kingdom which is to stand forever is to be one which God shall set up.

Swedenborg interprets the image as applying to the church pictured by Babylon, which begins in genuine worship of the Lord but allows itself to come more and more into the love of rule until it has falsified all its truth by assuming the Lord's powers for itself. Swedenborg also in many places interprets the image as picturing the whole history of the Lord's church in the world. In this sense the head of gold is the Most Ancient Church, the breast and arms of silver the Ancient Church, the belly and thighs of brass the Hebrew Church through the time of the patriarchs, the legs of iron the Israelitish Church established among the sons of Jacob, and the feet of iron and clay this church in its last state when the Lord came into the world. The stone cut out without hands is divine truth in the person of the Lord Himself. In connection with this interpretation, we remember that mythology tells of the golden, silver, bronze, and iron ages.

There are many interesting stories in the book of Daniel as well as some wonderful prophecies concerning the Lord's Advent and even concerning His Second Coming. Daniel, the fourth of the Major Prophets, is the only prophet who became rich and powerful in the world, and he retained his prosperity and power throughout his long life, which extended into the reign of Cyrus, under whom the Jews were allowed to return to the Holy Land. But we see from the very first chapter of the book that Daniel's success was founded on his humility and obedience to the Lord. His story has striking similarities to that of Joseph, and it also gives us a good example of the truth of the ninety-first Psalm, which we have studied. Nothing could hurt Daniel because he trusted in the Lord.

There is another lesson which we should draw from our chapter.

Because Daniel from the start disclaimed any credit for his wisdom and said that it was the Lord who was giving Nebuchadnezzar his answer — just as Joseph had told Pharaoh so long before — Nebuchadnezzar acknowledged the God of Daniel as the greatest of all gods, even though he also honored and rewarded Daniel himself. We do not lead people to the Lord by trying to impress them with our own goodness and wisdom. If you look back over history and look about you in the world, you will find that the men and women who are regarded as truly great are not the self-confident ones but those who recognize their own weakness and look to the Lord for guidance and strength.

