
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The general lesson of the period of the Judges is the thing to be emphasized in this class, and the fact that if we are not wise enough to obey the Lord readily and willingly, we often have to be taught by hard experiences. The difference between the mind and the will should be made clear, and the part each plays in meeting our temptations.

---
The history of the children of Israel up to the time of the book of Judges may be said to describe, in its large general outline, our spiritual development from infancy to the time when we begin our independent lives away from the direct guidance of our parents. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, and Joshua had been with the people to judge and intercede, and had directed their life much as our parents direct our lives. But now the people were established in their own homes in the land, and were to stand on their own feet.

So with the death of Joshua we pass into the period of our independent life. We have to make our own decisions. However sure we may be that we intend to follow the Lord, there is always a period here when, missing the strong leadership of our parents and teachers, we make many mistakes. We find our temptations unexpectedly strong. We go out into new fields "on our own" as the twelve tribes did when they scattered to take possession of their lands, and we find it much easier to do as the people around us do than to follow the strict line of duty as our religious training has marked it out for us. The idols of the land — success, money, pleasure — begin to influence us. Our natural selfish tendencies, which we never wholly conquer, grow stronger and at last rise up and attack us openly.

The period of the Judges was a time when "every man did that which was right in his own eyes" because "there was no king in Israel." (Judges 17:6) This is the time when we think we know enough about what is right without looking to the Lord and learning more all the time. It is a time of temptation and trouble. For the Lord has to permit us to make mistakes and to suffer for them, in order that we may recognize our weaknesses and turn to Him for guidance.

The Judges were temporary leaders raised up here and there in the land to lead the people against particular enemies. They represent individual truths which the Lord calls to our minds when we need them. Chapter 3 tells of the first three Judges: Othniel the nephew and son-in-law of Caleb — who won a victory over the king of Mesopotamia; Ehud, of the tribe of Benjamin, who killed Eglon king of Moab by a ruse and then led his people in the slaughter of Eglon's army; and Shamgar, who slew six hundred of the Philistines with an ox—goad.

Then in our chapter for today we have the story of a woman Judge, Deborah. She is described as making her home under a palm tree between Bethel and Ramah in the tribe of Benjamin. Bethel pictures knowledge of celestial things; Ramah, spiritual knowledge; and the palm tree, the principle that all goodness and all salvation are from the Lord alone. So here we have a situation in which the Judge who is to govern us is an affection for heavenly knowledges living in recognition of the fact that the Lord alone can save us.

The enemy this time is not near the home of the Judge — not in the central or southern part of the land, but in the north. That is, the temptation threatening us is the temptation to yield to falsity in the understanding. Deborah appoints as leader for the army Barak, from the tribe of Naphtali in the north, and tells him to gather an army from his own tribe and that of Zebulun, also in the north. False reasoning must be met by true reasoning, for the battle is to be fought in the mind. But Barak refuses to fight unless Deborah will go with him; and when she does, the battle is won with the direct help of the Lord, who sweeps away the horses and chariots of the enemy in the river Kishon (Judges 5:21-22). So our affection for the Lord and heavenly things must always be there to back up our efforts to reason against falsity, and it is the Lord who gives the victory.

Then comes the powerful story of the destruction of Sisera, leader of Jabin's army, who represents the false principle which was directing our false reasoning and which sometimes eludes us even when we think we have won the battle. The woman Jael was a Kenite. The Kenites were a good remnant of the Ancient Church, and represent those simple good impulses in our hearts which go back to our early religious teaching. The tent pictures a childlike state of worship, and the tent pins which fasten it to the ground are the simple truths from the Word which connect our worship with our daily life. So Jael's apparently cruel act pictures our ability to overcome the basic principle behind our false reasoning by "knocking it on the head" with the simple commandments we learned as children.

In chapter 5 we have the song of praise which Deborah and Barak together sang to the Lord after the victory. Both our hearts and our minds should acknowledge the Lord as our Savior in every victory over temptation.

