
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The geography will interest the Older Children. Have them locate on a map all the places named and look up the Bible references. They can be told more than the younger children about Jael and Sisera and the reason why such stories appear in the Word. The Lord judges people in every age by their motives and by how far they do right according to what they may be expected to know.

---
Joshua led the people until they had conquered the Holy Land and divided it among the tribes. On a map, find the names of the tribes in their proper places. Two and a half tribes had chosen to make their homes on the east side of the Jordan. The Holy Land itself was surveyed by a company of men picked from all the tribes and was marked out into ten parts. Then they cast lots to see which tribe should have each part; so you see the Lord actually determined where each tribe should make its home. Before Joshua's death they all promised him that they would serve the Lord faithfully and would continue fighting, each in his own territory, until all their enemies were completely overcome. The tribes of Judah and Simeon did continue to make conquests as they had promised, but the other tribes were too much interested in settling their own homes to go on fighting, and after Joshua's death there was no one great leader to keep them reminded of their duty to the Lord. So, many of the enemies remained in some strength. The Israelites began to associate with them, and soon they were intermarrying with them and even worshiping their gods. Do we ever find it easier to do as other people do than to think for ourselves what is really right?

When the people began to worship the gods of their enemies, these enemies gained strength and eventually tried again to overcome the interlopers. The Lord permitted each of these enemies to prevail until the people in that particular part of the country remembered Him and turned to Him for help. Then in each case He raised up some individual to lead them out of their difficulty. These individuals were not set over all the people as Moses and Joshua had been, but were local and temporary leaders. They were called Judges. The Lord does the same thing for us when we are in trouble and turn to Him for help. He brings up in our memories the particular truth we need to lead us against the present temptation. The Lord never lets trouble come to us unless we need it to show us our weaknesses and to rouse us up to fight them. We can see this truth when we read Judges 2:20-23.

The first three Judges were Othniel, who led the people against the king of Mesopotamia; Ehud of the tribe of Benjamin, who saved them from Eglon king of Moab; and Shamgar, who won victories over the Philistines.

In our lesson today what enemy is threatening?

In what general section of the land did he live? Who was the captain of his army?

Who was the Judge raised up at this time?

Where did she live?

Look up Bethel and Ramah on the map. Bethel was Abraham's second stop when he first came into the Holy Land, and also the place where Jacob had his wonderful dream of the ladder. Ramah was the town where Samuel was born and made his home.

Whom did Deborah call to lead the battle against Jabin?

From what tribes was he to draw his army?

Find the place of these tribes on the map.

What did Barak insist that Deborah should do?

What did she tell him would happen?

The battle took place in the plain of Esdraelon. On the map you will see a point of land which breaks the line of the coast at the southern boundary of the tribe of Zebulun. This is Mount Carmel. From this mountain the river Kishon flows southeastward through the plain of Esdraelon. This plain is a natural meeting place for armies trying to take possession of the Holy Land, and many battles have been fought there. There was even a battle there in our own century during the first World War. The plain is drained by the River Kishon, and in chapter 5, which is Deborah's song of triumph, verse 21 tells how the Lord helped the Israelites by means of the Kishon.

From what people did Jael come?

Read Numbers 10:29-32 and Judges 1:16 to learn about her ancestry and how her family happened to be living in the Holy Land and to be friendly to Israel.

How did she help Israel this time?

The "nail" was a wooden tent peg or stake. Perhaps this seems a very cruel thing for a woman to do, but we must remember that the people of that time were cruel. The Lord could use these harsh facts in the Word because of their correspondence. And we must remember that He does not blame people for doing wrong things when they do not know any better. He always judges us by our motives. Jael's motive was to help Israel. Read verses 6-9 and see if you can find a reason for the Lord's allowing Jael to kill Sisera. The Lord always tried to show the Israelites that it was not their own strength and wisdom which gave them victory. He wants us to see this, too.

