
=== Notes for Parents

Under Joshua's leadership the children of Israel carried on three campaigns in the Holy Land: one in the center of the land, one in the south, and one in the north. They won enough decisive victories so that the enemies in the land were subdued and permitted them to settle there. The land was divided into sections and then, by the casting of lots, these sections were assigned to the various tribes.

When we have mastered enough of our temptations so that we can feel safely established in regenerate living, all our faculties take their proper places in our scheme of life.

But the Israelites made a serious mistake at this point — a mistake which we also are likely to make. They did not completely destroy their enemies, but became overconfident and ceased to guard and fight against them. Presently they even began to intermarry with their former enemies and then to worship their gods. When once we begin to imagine we are "good enough" and stop examining and correcting ourselves in the light of the Lord's truth, we slip into careless ways.

Then suddenly some evil in us which we thought we had overcome crops up stronger than ever. Here and there, in one part of the land or another, old enemies of Israel one after another began to rise up and attack. Then, just as we are driven by trouble to remember the Lord and seek His help, so Israel turned to the Lord each time. And the Lord always helped them, as He always helps us. Against each enemy He raised up a leader to deliver Israel. These were local and temporary leaders, and were called Judges, and each one pictures some particular truth from the Word which the Lord, when we ask His help, can bring up out of our memory to show us the right way and give us courage to attack the enemy.

In our story for today the woman Judge Deborah did not fight, but she went with the leader Barak to direct and inspire him so that he overcame the enemy. In the same way, some simple affection for what is right in the Lord's sight will rise up in us to direct and inspire us when we realize suddenly how weak we are, and will cause us to exert ourselves to resist temptation and re—establish ourselves in heavenly living.

Does Jael's act in the last part of our story seem a fierce and cruel one? People in those days were often fierce and cruel — as some are today — but the Lord could use their deeds to teach us that we must show no mercy to the evil inclinations and wrong thoughts which rise up in our hearts and minds. We must strike them down promptly and finally. The "thou shalt not" of the commandments is like the tent peg in Jael's hand.

