
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Begin by telling the class that the children of Israel have now reached the Promised Land and are finally settled in homes of their own. The people were so comfortable that they forgot to worship and obey the Lord. Tell them how one enemy after another rose up, and then go on to Deborah and her tent under the palm tree. Point out that the Lord again showed the Israelites that they could conquer only with His help. In telling the story of Jael and Sisera dwell on the friendship of Jael's people for Israel, and point out that the people of that time lived a rough life and were accustomed to violent deaths.

---
The children of Israel had to fight a great many battles before they proved to their enemies in the Holy Land that the Lord was really with them and intended them to rule there. But finally they were able to disband the army and scatter through the land to make homes for themselves and sow the fields and plant fruit trees.

Joshua had led them faithfully, and the Lord showed him how to divide the country among them so that each of the twelve tribes would have a settled home. Ever since they left Egypt, this was what the people had been looking forward to — a country of their own, where they would not be ruled by strangers. As long as Joshua lived, they got along very well because he kept them reminded of the Lord, and before he died, they promised him that they would always do as the Lord told them to do.

But they soon forgot and then the Lord permitted their enemies to become strong again.

The Israelites now had no one leader.

"Every man did that which was right in his own eyes." (Judges 17:6)

Did you ever promise to be good and then get so busy doing what you wanted to do that you forgot your promise? This was what the Israelites did. And when they forgot to obey the Lord, the Lord could not help them.

You know that when you get into trouble, you look around for someone to help you. The Israelites did not now have any one person like Joshua to lead them, but whenever they told the Lord they were sorry and asked Him to help them, He raised up someone to show them the way out of the particular trouble they were in. This person was called a Judge. There were sixteen$ of them.

[*This total can be achieved only by counting both Deborah and Barak.]

In the order of their naming the judges are:

1. Othniel (Judges 3:9)
2. Ehud (Judges 3:15)
3. Shamgar (Judges 3:31)
4. Deborah (Judges 4:5)
5. Gideon (Judges 6:36)
6. Abimelech (Judges 9:1)
7. Tola (Judges 10:1)
8. Jair (Judges 10:3)
9. Jephthah (Judges 11:11)
10. Ibzan (Judges 12:8)
11. Elon (Judges 12:11)
12. Abdon (Judges 12:13)
13. Samson (Judges 16:30)
14. Eli (I Samuel 4:18)
15. Samuel (I Samuel 7:15).

The first three Judges were Othniel, Ehud, and Shamgar. In our lesson for today, what enemy is attacking?

Who was the leader of his army?

Who was the Judge in Israel at this time?

Where did she live?

Whom did Deborah call to lead the battle?

From what tribe did the army come?

Near what river did the battle take place?

Judges 5:21 tells of another way in which the Lord helped Barak to win.

It says that the river Kishon swept the enemy away. Who won the battle?

Who killed Sisera?

How did she kill him?

The Kenites were descendants of Jethro the Midianite, the father-in-law of Moses.

After the victory Deborah and Barak sang a song of praise and thanksgiving to the Lord for saving the nation.

