
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The finer points of the correspondence can be discussed with this class. Some effort should be made to define what Deborah in her surroundings pictures. The history of the Kenites and their meaning should be stressed, and the nature and outcome of the battle should be illustrated as it applies to our own experience.

---
The conquest of the Holy Land and the settlement there pictures our final years of preparation for adult life. Joshua's death is like the withdrawal of our parents from control of our lives. Our characters are "formed." Our intentions are good: that is pictured by the fact that in the southern part of the land, as the first chapter of Judges tells us, the tribes of Simeon and Judah under Caleb's direction had overcome all their enemies, even the three sons of the giant Anak.

But in the northern part of the land, which pictures the understanding, the Israelites had won only a partial victory. Although in some places they were sufficiently strong to exact tribute from their enemies, they did not drive them out, but settled down to live among them and very soon were led away into the worship of their idols. When we are young, our minds do not have sufficient knowledge and independence to recognize and condemn the many fallacies in the current thought of our community. We compromise with worldly reasoning and are easily led astray by it.

Verse 7 of Judges 2 tells us that "the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord, that he did for Israel." For a time in our new independent state we are still under the sway of our early training. But when this influence recedes, it is with us as with the Israelites, "the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and served Baalim."

The key note of the period of the Judges is found in the statement in Judges 17:6: "In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes." Many people, older as well as younger, are in this state. They say, "If I do what I think is right, what more can be expected of me?" And it takes repeated experience, as it did with Israel, to prove that one's own idea of right is not necessarily a safe guide. When Israel settled back in comfort with the idea that all its conquests were won, its old enemies, only partially overcome, began to regain strength and one by one rose up and attacked.

The Judges were individuals raised up by the Lord here and there in the land to lead Israel against particular enemies. When we recognize a temptation, realize our weakness, and turn to the Lord for help, He will always call up out of our memory some particular truth which can help us. Each enemy and each Judge is a study in itself.

The enemy in the northern part of the land who is attacking in our chapter for today pictures some false reasoning, and this time Israel is saved by two women. The first is the prophetess Deborah, who lived under a palm tree between Bethel and Ramah in the territory of Benjamin. Benjamin, the youngest son of Jacob, pictures our faculty for spiritual thought, and a palm tree is the symbol of the principle that goodness is of the Lord alone and that His truth should rule us. Women represent affections. So the Judge raised up in us to meet the temptation to accede to false reasoning is our affection for looking to the Lord for leadership in our thinking.

Deborah calls two of the northernmost tribes to fight the battle.

The combat against false reasoning must be waged in the mind rather than in the heart, but if the affection for the Lord's guidance is present, the Lord can help us. Our enemy is caught in the flood and his horses and chariots are overwhelmed. Read chapter 5, verse 21, a part of Deborah's song of triumph.

In the heat of battle Sisera, the leader of the enemy forces, escapes. He pictures the selfish principle that prompts and directs false reasoning. We sometimes become involved in argument and imagine we have won a victory, when we have not really traced the temptation to its source and overcome that.

Jael was the wife of Heber the Kenite, a descendant of the father-in-law of Moses, who helped Moses in the wilderness. Moses' father-in-law Jethro — also called Reuel and Raguel (Hobab was Reuel's son) - pictures the remains of simple goodness which are preserved in our minds as the result of our early religious faith, for Midian was the son of Abraham by Keturah, whom Abraham married after Sarah's death. Most of the Midianites turned against Israel, but one good remnant, the Kenites, not only remained friendly but came with Israel into the Holy Land (see Numbers 10:29-32 and Judges 1:16 and 4:11). The tent is the symbol of worship from this simple faith, and the "nail" or wooden tent pin, which fastened the tent to the ground, is one of those simple commandments which relate our worship directly to our daily living. So Jael's apparently cruel act pictures our final disposal of the root of false reasoning by means of the simple "thou shalt not" of our childhood, always the final effective answer to the enemy. Notice that it is said that when Jael drove the tent pin through Sisera's temple, she "fastened it into the ground." Our "thou shalt not" must be driven home in the daily life.

Without Deborah and Jael, Barak and the two northern tribes could not have won the victory. Our intelligence alone is not sufficient to combat the assaults of worldly reasoning. Indeed Israel, forgetting its worship of Jehovah, had fallen subject to the king of Hazor. The story repeats itself over and over again in the Word and in our life: self-satisfaction, slavery, remembrance of the Lord, deliverance. "Then they called unto the Lord in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses." (Psalm 107:6)

