
=== Intermediate

The principal lesson for this class is in the meaning of the sealing of the tomb, which comes naturally from an account of the events of Holy Week, and then the correspondence of the Easter story, stressing the fact that it is only as we really love goodness that we can be enlightened by the Lord.

When the Lord and His apostles were coming to Jerusalem for the last time, He told them that He was to be put to death. Although they did not fully believe Him, they tried to persuade Him not to go, but He rebuked them. He came to His death willingly as part of the work He had come into the world to do.

On the first day of the week He rode into Jerusalem as a king.

He wept over Jerusalem, seeing it as a symbol of the church which was being brought to ruin. He cleansed the temple of the moneychangers and vendors of doves, who were doing business in its very court. During the first two days of the week He taught in the temple, but at night He went out to the little village of Bethany on the Mount of Olives and rested at the home of His friends Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. On Thursday evening He celebrated the Passover feast with the apostles in an upper chamber in Jerusalem, and instituted the Holy Supper. Afterward He went out to the Garden of Gethsemane on the Mount of Olives to pray, and there Judas betrayed Him. He was brought back the same night and tried by the high priest, by Herod, and by Pilate. On Friday He was crucified and His body was placed in a new tomb belonging to Joseph of Arimathea. The tomb was closed with a great stone and sealed, and a guard of soldiers was set. During the Hebrew sabbath His body lay in the tomb.

We can understand the crucifixion of the Lord better if we remember one of the things He said about Himself: "I am the way, the truth, and the life." The scribes and Pharisees and priests put Him to death because they did not want to follow the divine way, to know the divine truth, or to live the divine life. They wanted only their own way, their own ideas, and the life of the world. People today may do the same thing. The Lord always does everything He can to show us the way to happiness, but we may choose to close our minds against Him and to believe in our own selfish ideas instead.

You remember that the scribes and Pharisees had so covered up the Scriptures with their own interpretations and regulations that the people did not know what the Word really taught. This false interpretation of the Scriptures is pictured by the great stone which was rolled in front of the entrance to the sepulcher.

You may remember too from an earlier lesson that morning always pictures the beginning of a new state. Women picture affections. The women who loved the Lord came to the tomb to do what they could for Him even though they could not understand what had happened. The spices they brought to anoint His body represent an inner understanding about Him prompted by their love. Because they were trying to serve the Lord even when He seemed to have left them, they were the first to learn of His resurrection. The apostles had given up hope when they saw Him die and saw nothing more they could do. They did not even believe the women's story of what they had found.

This shows us the difference between a belief based on the love of goodness and a belief based on merely seeing with the mind. For after the short rest of the sabbath the tomb was burst open and a new era in the lives of men began. Even the Lord's closest disciples thought everything was finished when He was crucified. But His death, like the death of every one of us, was merely the close of one chapter and the beginning of another. The Lord's death on the cross marked the end of one church era and the beginning of the Christian Church era. The Christian Church began first with the apostles whom the resurrection transformed from broken and disheartened men into strong, invincible messengers of the Gospel, able to go out and evangelize the world. The resurrection put the seal of truth upon every word the Lord had spoken and every miracle He had performed. Without the resurrection there would have been no Christian Church.

The Lord passed through death to prove to His disciples and to us that He is really the "resurrection and the life," that the death of the physical body is nothing but an upward step in our lives and does not change us in any way. If someone says to you, "I can't believe in a future life; no one has ever come back to tell us about it," your immediate answer should be, "The Lord Jesus Christ came back to tell us just that." Anyone who calls himself a Christian should accept this answer. The Lord's life as recorded in the Gospels is the only foundation which the Christian Church has. Fairy tales do not change history.

