
=== Primary

Make the connection with the Palm Sunday lesson and then try to show the children why the people turned against the Lord and put Him to death, and why the Lord let Himself be put to death. Speak of death and resurrection as part of the normal life of everyone.

You know that today is called Easter Sunday. Last Sunday was also a special Sunday. Do you remember what it was called? And in December we had another special Sunday. You all remember that one. Whose birthday do we celebrate at Christmas?

You know that the Lord came into the world long ago to show us the right way to live. He let Himself be born as a little baby, just as we are, and He grew up in a home, just as we do. And finally, when He was fully prepared, He began to teach and preach and heal. He was so wonderful that great crowds came to hear Him; but they did not all like what He told them, just as we sometimes do not like to be told the truth because we don't want to stop doing wrong.

The people who had received the Lord as king on Palm Sunday were disappointed and angry when they found that He was not going to be the kind of king they wanted.

Then the scribes and Pharisees saw their chance to get rid of the Lord. How did they do this?

His body was laid in a tomb and a great stone was rolled in front of the door. The Lord had told His disciples just what would happen to Him and also that He would rise from death on the third day.

But you know that when we are in trouble, we often forget what we have been told.

The disciples lost all courage and hope.

Who went to the tomb on Sunday morning?

What did they bring?

The spices were to anoint the Lord's body. 

What did the women find?

What did they not find?

Who appeared to them?

What did these angels tell them?

Of what did they remind them?

When the women told the apostles, what did they think? What did Peter do?

You see, the Lord let His enemies put Him to death to show us that what we call death is nothing we need to be afraid of. It is just the beginning of a new and happier life.

