
=== Notes for Parents

Many churches, taking statements in the Bible literally, think that there will someday be a great judgment at the end of the world. In the New Church we regard all the Word as a parable, though much of it is also history, and we believe that there have been several judgments, one on each of the various church eras that have succeeded each other on earth, and also that each one of us is judged when at death he enters the spiritual world; that is, his inner life is revealed and he finds his place in heaven or in hell according to the character which he has formed in himself during his life in this world.

As Revelation 20:12 tells us: "I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." The books are the record of our lives which we write into our character day by day, and the book of life is the Word of God. A heavenly character is one patterned on the precepts of the Word.

John's vision in Revelation is a symbolic picture of this whole process of judgment, beginning with the vision of the Lord and the warnings and promises to the various kinds of people. After that, John saw a throne and the Lord sitting upon it with the book of life in His hand. The book was at first sealed with seven seals. This is a picture of the Word of God as we first read it, without understanding it. Then in the vision the Lord opens the seals one by one and as each is opened, strange and terrible things happen. The more deeply we see into the meaning of the Word the more we realize how many evils are in us, which we must fight and overcome with the Lord's help. But throughout the vision the good are also revealed and are protected by the Lord, just as He always seeks to preserve whatever good is found in us.

Finally in our chapters for today there comes the beautiful vision of the holy city New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven. It is a vision of the true form of life in which we may find joy and peace. We enter it by studying the Word of God and seeing and accepting its deeper truths and living according to them. The wall of the city is the literal sense of the Word, its foundations are the basic principles of a good life as laid down in the ten commandments. The precious stones are the varied and beautiful truths which appear to us as we study the Word, its gates of pearl the means of entrance through obedience to its teachings, its golden street the path of loving service in which we learn to walk.

The New Church is based on the revelation of the deeper meaning within the letter of the Word. So it takes as its name the "Church of the New Jerusalem." The way to the holy city has been revealed by the Lord. It is not always an easy way — it is not the way of worldliness and self-satisfaction — but if we choose to undertake it, the Lord and the angels are ever with us, enlightening, inspiring, and strengthening us. Revelation 22:14 tells us: "Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city."

