
=== Adult

The effect on Judah of the fall of Israel and its meaning may be the most fruitful discussion topic. Follow this with the lesson to be drawn from the inability of Josiah to avert the consequences of the sins of his people. The teacher will find additional suggestions on this point in the Senior notes.

We have had the story of Hezekiah, of his good reign in Judah, his illness and recovery, his conversations with the prophet Isaiah, and his final weakness in showing all his treasures to the ambassadors of the king of Babylon. Manasseh and Amon, son and grandson of Hezekiah, were evil kings, reestablishing the worship of idols and of Baal, and even setting up idolatrous worship in the temple itself. Amon reigned only two years and was slain by his servants in his own house, and his son Josiah was made king.

Josiah was only eight years old when he came to the throne. We learn from 2 Chronicles 34:3 that "in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David, his father: and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images." Our lesson tells us that in the eighteenth year of his reign he had the temple repaired. Others before him had cleansed and repaired the temple, but each time when idolatry arose again, the temple soon became polluted and fell into disrepair. The temple is a picture of what our lives should be, of a true heavenly character in which the Lord is worshiped in heart and mind and His laws carried out in every act of outward conduct. When "idols" are set up — that is, when other motives are allowed to rule our lives in place of service to the Lord — heavenly character begins to degenerate. The truths which have formed it - the walls of our "temple" — are broken down, and all sorts of unworthy ideas and practices creep in. When we awaken to the condition into which our character has fallen and begin to repair it, we find that we must use every bit of truth we have which can lead us into connection with the Lord again, like the silver which the keepers of the door of the temple gathered from the people who came to worship. But we note that there was no accounting made of this money. What we do for the Lord should be done willingly and faithfully with no desire for praise or reward.

While the temple was being cleaned out, a book of the law was found. This was undoubtedly the scroll containing one or more of the five books of Moses which had been laid up beside the ark from the time of its completion (Deuteronomy 31:24-26), but had been mislaid and forgotten and perhaps buried under rubbish during the misuse of the temple (@AC 9396). When we seek to cleanse and repair our characters, we inevitably "find this book of the law" — we come to realize that only the teachings of the Word can direct us in living a good life. And when, like Josiah, we read the book with humble minds, we realize how far we have fallen from the standards of truly heavenly living. Josiah tore his clothes, which we learn is a symbol of "grief on account of truth being lost" (@AC 4763), and we know that truth which has not been applied to life is lost. Then Josiah set out to make sweeping reforms, going even further than Hezekiah; for he not only destroyed the idols, the groves, and the high places in Judah, but went up into what had been Israel and destroyed the altar to the golden calf which Jeroboam had set up at Bethel, fulfilling the prophecy made concerning it in Jeroboam's time (1 Kings 13:1-2). We may recall the meaning of Jeroboam's altars. A study of the Word in genuine humility will break down the idea that merely natural goodness is enough.

Josiah was terrified by the curses pronounced against the nation in the book of the law in the event of their forsaking the Lord and pursuing the very course which they had actually been pursuing (Deuteronomy 28:15-68). He sent to Huldah the prophetess to inquire of the Lord whether these things would surely come to pass, and Huldah told him that the prophecies would be fulfilled but that, because of his own humility and righteousness, the doom would not fall in his day.

In the same way, we often wish to feel that the consequences of evil may after all be averted; but the Word assures us that they cannot be escaped, although whatever of humility and genuine goodness we have will also have its reward. This is a lesson which we all need to have clearly in mind; it is taught in the stories of both Hezekiah and Josiah. The effects of evil are inevitable. It is true that so long as we are in the world it is never too late to recognize our evils, repent, and begin to do well and lay the foundation at least of a heavenly character; but we are not the same persons we might have been if we had not done evil. Some opportunities have been lost forever, some of our original possibilities cut off. We can never actually make up for our present wrong acts. Even a brave and conscientious king like Josiah could not save the people from the consequences of their evils. And we must remember that the effect of evil is cumulative. Every time we deliberately choose to do what we know is wrong we make it harder for ourselves to do right the next time. And our lives are to be judged by the very book of the law which Josiah read (see Revelation 20:12). We too should read that book humbly and be shocked to find how far we have departed from its commands, and set about cleansing our lives and repairing the breaches in our characters.

As the crowning act of all his work, Josiah celebrated the Passover. The Passover, we remember, symbolizes deliverance from bondage to evil and falsity through the Lord's victory over the hells. The people were ordered to observe the Passover annually at a certain time. We, if we lived orderly lives, would regularly experience this acknowledgment of the Lord's saving power and the peace and joy which follow it. But as the people had forsaken the Lord, the feast had been neglected and only occasionally, after some great reform like that of Josiah, is its celebration mentioned. So we experience this state all too seldom, for it never comes from self-satisfaction, but from the realization of our debt to the Lord. In the Christian Church the proper preparation for receiving the Holy Supper — the feast which takes the place of the Passover for us — is self-examination and repentance, the same work which Josiah's reforms symbolize.

Our lesson today brings us to the end of the ancient Hebrew nation as a representative of the true Church in the world and in us. In the letter we find that Josiah was killed when he tried to oppose the passage of the king of Egypt through his land (2 Kings 23:29). The evils fixed in the natural plane of the mind by long habit are our undoing. He was succeeded by his son Jehoahaz, who after a reign of only three months was removed from the throne by the king of Egypt and carried off to Egypt. The Pharaoh raised another son of Josiah, Eliakim or Jehoiakim, to the throne and exacted tribute. It was in Jehoiakim's reign that the invasion of Judah by Babylon began, but Jehoiakim died and was succeeded by his son, Jehoiachin, before the actual captivity took place. Jehoiachin surrendered and was carried away to Babylon, together with his mother, his wives, and all the princes, warriors, and wealthy men, and the best of the craftsmen. For a time the country was allowed to continue under the puppet rule of a third son of Josiah, whose original name was changed to Zedekiah. Finally Zedekiah rebelled and the army of Babylon destroyed Jerusalem and the temple and carried away all the rest of the people except some of the poorest, who were left to till the ground so that it might be useful to Babylon. After seventy years, however, when Cyrus, king of Persia, had absorbed Babylon, "the Lord put it in the heart of Cyrus" to allow all who would to return. Jerusalem and the temple were rebuilt, and so the Holy Land was tided over until the coming of the Lord.

