
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
These young people should be brought to understand the need of truth in the mind, if the good intentions of the heart are to survive. Most of them have good intentions, but at this age they are particularly susceptible to persuasion from their companions. The more clearly they can see their lives as a spiritual drama and see the value of standing firmly on the side of right, the more easily they will recognize and overcome such temptations.

---
While the kings of Israel — the Israel of the divided kingdom - were all bad, a number of the kings of Judah were good. Remember that Judah represents the will and Israel the understanding. Once we have reached the state of love pictured by Solomon's reign, we cannot become bad all at once. Worldly reasoning may creep into our minds, but our good intentions are still very real. From the twelfth chapter of 1 Kings through 2 Kings the story of the two kingdoms and their decline is told. The story in the Bible goes back and forth from one to the other. This is just what we should expect, for although our will and our understanding may be pulling in opposite directions, they cannot really be separated.

So the idolatries practiced in Israel crept into Judah. When we let our minds accept worldly ideas, selfishness creeps back little by little into our hearts. Suppose, for instance, that there is some pleasure which in our hearts we know is wrong, but when our friends invite us to join in it, instead of saying "no" immediately, we listen to their excuses for doing it. The next step is to say, "That sounds reasonable." Then we begin to think, "After all, I'm good most of the time; I ought to be allowed some fun." And finally we find ourselves doing just as everybody else does. But from time to time we wake up and realize that we are not good — that we have fallen very far from the standards we had decided to live by — and we try to reform. This is the history of Judah: two or three bad kings and then a good one.

We have had the story of king Hezekiah, who not only destroyed the idols throughout the land of Judah, but also broke down the "high places" which his predecessors had left standing. Yet while Hezekiah was on the throne in Judah, Israel was taken captive by Assyria. All her people were carried away captive and never came back, and foreigners were brought in to take their place. This is a picture of a time when our minds give in completely to the ideas in the world around us. We haven't become wholly selfish — Judah still held out — but there are no thoughts left in our minds which can defend our good intentions. Hezekiah's son Manasseh was the worst king Judah had ever had. He rebuilt the high places and restored all the idols, and even set up idols in the temple itself. And his son Amon, who reigned only two years and was slain by his servants in his own house, was also evil.

Then there came a king who made one last great stand against the increasing corruption of Judah. This was Amon's son Josiah. Josiah had come to the throne as a child of eight. Young children of the royal family were, as a rule, under the special care of the high priest. Read the story of an earlier king, Jehoash, as told in chapters 11 and 12. Read also Matthew 18:1-3.

Josiah's first work was to cleanse and repair the temple. We may recall that the temple is the symbol of spiritual character. When we see that we have fallen into such evil states, we begin to examine ourselves with a view to purifying our own hearts. Such an honest and humble attempt is described in verses 4 to 7 of our chapter. And its first result is the rediscovery of the "book of the law," the books of Moses containing the commandments and other laws, and the realization that our lives have departed very far from the right way.

Josiah inquired of the Lord concerning the state into which the nation had fallen and its outcome, and was told through Huldah the prophetess — as Hezekiah had been told through the prophet Isaiah — that the great evils of the people would bring their inevitable punishment, but that the doom would not fall in his time because he had humbled himself before the Lord. As long as we are really trying to do right, the Lord can protect us.

Chapter 23 tells how Josiah destroyed all the idols and the high places, cleansed the temple, and even destroyed the golden calf which Jeroboam had set up at Bethel.$ Then he celebrated the Passover, the greatest Passover that had been held for many years.

[* Although one might infer that the gold calf was destroyed when Jeroboam's altar was torn down, the text does not so state specifically. -Editor]

But even Josiah's efforts could not stem the tide of evil which had been sweeping over the land. It is recorded (2 Kings 23:29) that when Josiah had reigned thirty-one years, the king of Egypt came up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates. Josiah went out to meet him, apparently to prevent his crossing the land, and was killed in battle. We remember that the king of Egypt always pictures the principle of reliance on natural knowledges. When our minds have given in to worldliness, we cannot stand in the face of this principle. The king of Egypt put the land of Judah to tribute. He carried away to Egypt Jehoahaz, the son of Josiah who followed him as king, and set up another of Josiah's sons, Eliakim, afterward called Jehoiakim, who was willing to pay tribute. During his reign the king of Babylon became stronger than the king of Egypt and took over the tribute; and when Jehoiakim died, his son Jehoiachin was carried away to Babylon. A little later Jerusalem and the temple were destroyed, all but the poorest of the people were carried off, and the kingdom of Judah was at an end. Babylon represents "the love of dominion from the love of self." This means the feeling that everyone should look up to us and do what we want. It is a very deep evil and one against which we should be especially watchful. We are all in the world to be useful to others — not to be served. In the destruction of character Assyria — which in a bad sense represents false reasoning — first captures the mind, and then, robbed of the bulwark of truth in the mind, the heart soon becomes a prey to this selfish love of dominion.

After seventy years of captivity the people of Judah were allowed to come back and rebuild Jerusalem and the temple. This was because some four hundred years later the Lord was to fulfill the prophecies and be born in Bethlehem, and the Lord had to come where the Word was, and the Jews had the Word. Those who were in the Holy Land when the Lord came were the descendants of those who returned from captivity from Babylon. The descendants of the foreigners brought in by Assyria to take the place of the people of Israel were the Samaritans of the Gospel story.


