
=== Notes for Parents

The Lord once said, "The kingdom of God is within you." In our outward surroundings many things happen over which we have no control, but each one of us is responsible for the state of the kingdom of God in his own soul, in his heart and mind. If the Lord really rules there, if we are trying always to learn and do the Lord's will, then all is well with us, no matter what our outward condition may be.

But sometimes our "kingdom" is divided, as Solomon's was after his death. Sometimes, although in our hearts we mean to be good people, we let all sorts of false ideas creep into our minds. Our minds come to be ruled by what other people think and say instead of by the truth as the Lord gives it to us in His Word. Like Judah, our hearts remain true to the line of David and continue to worship in the temple, but our minds set up the worship of the golden calf in place of the Lord. So the two kingdoms of our Bible story — Judah on the south and Israel on the north — are a picture of the heart and the mind when they are trying to act independently of each other.

The nation was near its end. Israel, in spite of the warnings of Elijah and Elisha, turned more and more away from the Lord. Its enemies grew stronger, and it was finally overcome by Assyria. All its people were carried away captive and never came back. You may see them referred to sometimes as the "lost tribes." This is a picture of the mind when it finally has given in altogether to worldly reasoning.

The heart holds out a little longer. Our good intentions are harder to destroy. Jerusalem and the temple were in Judah, and many of its kings were good. These good kings, like King Josiah in our story today, are pictures of our recurring states of repentance and attempted reform. Every so often we realize what a bad state we have fallen into and resolve to change our ways. We try, as Josiah did, to repair the temple of God within us, which we have been abusing, and then always the book of the law appears. All our knowledge of what is right and wrong goes back to the Bible, and what we know of the Bible comes back when we need it. The kingdom of Judah was spared as long as Josiah lived. As long as we are sincerely trying to correct our faults, the Lord can preserve our souls. But bad habits are hard to break, and after Josiah died, the country slipped back into idolatry and was soon conquered by Babylon. Everything we do or think from day to day has its inevitable effect on that kingdom of God which is within us.

