
=== Senior

This is a good lesson in which to put into the young people's minds a warning against the danger of allowing worldly reasoning to influence their thinking. The example of the fall of Judah so soon after the fall of Israel teaches this lesson clearly.

---
In reading the story of the kingdom of Judah we are always particularly struck by the brave efforts of certain kings — Asa, Jehoshaphat, Jehoash, Amaziah, Azariah, Jotham, Hezekiah, and finally Josiah — to stem the tide of evil which was slowly destroying Judah.

We recall that the division of Solomon's kingdom is a picture of the time in the life of a person who has reached a state of regeneration, but then because he relaxes his vigilance against evil begins to admit false ideas from the world around him into his mind. Israel — representing the mind — went steadily from bad to worse from the time when Jeroboam rebelled and set up the golden calves in Bethel and Dan until, while Hezekiah was on the throne of Judah, Israel was taken captive by Assyria. This pictures the time when the mind has given up the fight against worldly reasoning and has accepted the naturalistic arguments which are so popular, with all their false conclusions. All the people of Israel were carried away captive to Assyria, and foreigners were sent in to take their places. It is interesting to read in 2 Kings 17:24-41 a story of the coming of these foreigners. At the start they were troubled by lions because "they feared not the Lord." So the king of Assyria sent one of the priests back from captivity to "teach them the manner of the God of the land." Then they added this worship to their own idolatries. It is said of them (2 Kings 17:41): "So these nations feared the Lord, and served their graven images, both their children, and their children's children: as did their fathers, so do they unto this day." Their descendants were the Samaritans of the Gospel story, and we learn from the Lord's conversation with the woman of Samaria at Jacob's well (John 4:6-26) that they still were in the same confusion in regard to their worship. We know, too, that the Jews of New Testament days — after more than four hundred years — regarded them as foreigners and despised them. The mind of a person who knows he ought to worship the Lord and yet accepts the pronouncements of those who reason from nature alone is in just such a state of confusion.

Our good intentions are likely to hold out longer than our true thinking. Judah could not be taken by the Assyrians. But without the protection of Israel on the north, they could not long maintain their independence. In the same way, when the mind is full of falsity, the heart gives in little by little to the claims of selfishness. It has its times of repentance and reform, but they do not last. Even the good kings of Judah often had to give up the silver and gold stored in the temple in order to save themselves or buy protection from one enemy against another. You will remember how Hezekiah in his old age received the ambassadors of the king of Babylon as friends and showed them all his treasures, and how Isaiah told him that the time would come when Judah would be carried away captive to Babylon. When our minds are full of falsity, we cannot recognize our spiritual enemies until they have control of us. We cannot distinguish clearly and promptly between right and wrong.

Manasseh and Amon, the son and grandson of Hezekiah, were wicked kings, restoring all the idols and high places which Hezekiah had destroyed, and even setting up idols in the temple itself. Then a last attempt to save Judah was made by Amon's son Josiah.

The fact that Josiah came to the throne as a child reminds us of the Lord's teaching that we must become as little children if we are to enter the kingdom of God. Josiah turned his attention first to repairing the temple. When we remember that the temple pictures a regenerate character, we can understand why under the evil kings the temple had been allowed to fall into disrepair. The work of repair was paid for by the offerings of the people, and no accounting was required of the workmen "because they dealt faithfully."

When we are sincerely trying to find out our faults and correct them, we do not count the cost.

Then the high priest found the book of the law. The fact that in the clutter which had accumulated in the misused temple the book of the law had been lost shows how far we can get from the standards we have once accepted when we allow worldliness to creep into our hearts. Think perhaps of a man who, after starting out in life with high ideals, has let himself be led by business competition into more and more questionable business practices. Then suddenly the words "Thou shalt not steal" are repeated in his hearing. If he is a sincere man, he will realize immediately, as Josiah did when the book of the law was read to him, how many things of many kinds he has been doing which were fundamentally wrong. The excuses he has made for himself fall to pieces — Josiah tore his clothes.

When Josiah inquired of the Lord what the outcome would be, the prophetess Huldah told him that the results of the wrongdoing of the people could not be averted, but that because he had humbled himself before the Lord the doom would not fall in his day. And Josiah's reforms were the most sweeping of all that had been attempted. He cleansed and repaired the temple, destroyed the idols and broke down the high places, put away the wizards and sorcerers, and even destroyed the altar and grove which Jeroboam had set up at Bethel.

But evil had too great a hold on the people. Josiah could postpone, but not prevent, the fall of Judah. This should make us think very seriously. It is natural for young people — indeed for all of us — to put off serious thinking about our spiritual responsibility. We think we have plenty of time. We like to assume that we can do what pleases us today and perhaps make up for it tomorrow. But what we do today becomes a part of us and has its effect on our future. Our concern should always be with making today right. Bad habits are formed little by little, and they are hard to break.

Josiah's death teaches this same lesson. It is described in 2 Kings 23:29: "In his days Pharaoh Nechoh king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates: and king Josiah went against him; and he slew him at Megiddo, when he had seen him." We have not heard of Egypt for some time, but we remember that it pictures the natural plane of the mind. It is in that plane that the results of our bad habits become fixed. So when Egypt rose up and Josiah tried to prevent their passage across his country, he was killed. Megiddo is a city in the plain of Esdraelon, where many great battles were fought. Swedenborg tells us that Megiddo — like Armageddon in Revelation 16:16, whose name comes from the same root — pictures a love of domineering others, which is a great destroyer of character. It was only a few years after Josiah's death that Judah was overcome by Babylon, and Babylon represents "the love of dominion from the love of self." We need to keep always in mind that humility is the only ground in which spiritual life can grow.

