
=== Adult

Most of the Adults may already be sufficiently familiar with the details of the Easter story and their meaning, although the correspondence of the tomb and the stone that sealed it should be mentioned. Good discussion topics are the historical effect of the resurrection and its implications for the New Churchman especially.

The first ten verses of our chapter are very familiar to all of us.

Most of us know them by heart. It is a simple, beautiful story. The sorrowing women come to the tomb to care for the body of their master and friend, upon whom they had counted so much and whose death seemed to them the end of everything. But instead of the sealed tomb guarded by soldiers, they find the tomb open and empty and an angel of glorious countenance in white raiment, who tells them to fear not for the Lord is risen and will come to them in Galilee. Then, as they run to tell the wonderful news to the disciples, they see the Lord Himself coming to meet them. "Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning." This resurrection scene takes place "in the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week." Night always pictures a time of spiritual darkness and dawn the coming of a new spiritual day, a new state of recognition of the Lord. The sabbath of our first verse is not the holy sabbath of rest in the Lord, but the false sabbath of the religious leaders, the state of rest in the thought that they had triumphed by putting the Lord to death and would no more be troubled by Him. And the change is heralded by an earthquake, picturing a complete change in the state of the church.

The stone with which they had sealed the tomb represents their false interpretations of the letter of Scripture, by which they kept the people from seeing the spirit of truth within. False interpretations of the letter of the Word have not been confined to that day: they are prevalent today also and they still come between men and the Lord. The stone is rolled away when these false interpretations are given up and the Lord Himself is seen coming forth to reign and to bless.

The apostles were not the first at the sepulchre. In spite of all that the Lord had told them of His death and resurrection, they had given up hope when they saw Him die on the cross. But the women, who picture our affections, clung to the thought of the master even after His death and sought at the earliest opportunity — as soon as the sabbath was over — to serve Him still in the only way they thought remained to them. So our affections, even when hope seems dead, when the ideas of God in which we have trusted appear to be proved false, still cling to belief in the Lord Himself and seek to serve Him. And it is to this spirit of loving service that the Lord's resurrection is first declared. The keepers, who represent the false arguments in the mind which seek to keep the Lord in the tomb, to convince us that Christ is after all a mere historical figure, shake and become as dead men before the mighty truth of the resurrection. But this same truth encourages the loving affections and bids them instruct our thoughts and seek the Lord in the joy of willing service, in Galilee. We remember that Galilee pictures the plane of daily living and a mountain a high state of thought from which we can see our daily life in its true proportions and relationships. It is in carrying out the Lord's will in our daily life that we find His living spirit; without such active effort our knowledge of the Lord is dead. A similar truth is pictured by the fact that when the women actually saw the Lord, they "came and held him by the feet." The Lord's "feet" are the outmost plane of His activity, where His spirit affects our conduct.

The resurrection was the promised "sign of the prophet Jonas" (Matthew 16:4). The Lord rose on the third day, and between that time and the ascension forty days later, He walked and talked with many, opening their spiritual eyes to see Him.

But those whose spiritual eyes were closed by willful blindness did not see Him. That the apostles did see Him is proved by the effect on their lives. They had deserted Him when He was on the cross; they withdrew to mourn and wonder and doubt, as we see by the conversation described in Luke 24:13-21, and even the report of the women failed to convince them (Mark 16:10-11, Luke 24:10-11). But when they saw Him themselves, their whole life was changed; they then recalled and believed all He had told them of Himself, and were ready to go forth and suffer martyrdom for their belief in Him. Moreover their belief was so sure that they were able to convince others and to found the Christian Church. The very existence of the Christian Church is ample evidence of the fact of the resurrection. And the spirit of the glorified Lord working through the lives of those who accept Him has changed the course of history and brought about a new type of civilization. There is no logical reason to doubt that the resurrection was a fact.

If we accept the fact of the resurrection, we must believe, as the apostles did, that the Lord told the truth about Himself, that He is God with us, and that His Word is binding upon us. In the resurrection He gave the world a single great sign which stands for all time as proof of His claims and of His power. Belief in the resurrection entails upon us the responsibility of studying the Lord's teaching and obeying it, giving up our own judgment when we see that it is contrary to His teaching. This is the difficult side of the acceptance. But there is another and very joyous and beautiful side which we always have especially in mind on Easter Sunday. The Lord rose not only to prove to us that He is God, "the resurrection and the life," but to prove that His power is always victorious in the long run, that, whatever the appearance may be, falsity and evil always fail in the end. "Fear not them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do." If we will adopt the principles of love to the Lord and the neighbor as our ruling principles and act steadfastly from them, nothing can harm us spiritually; everything that happens to us in this world, however hard and disastrous it may seem outwardly, will be turned by the Lord into a means of developing fuller and happier life; our lives, no matter how humble and circumscribed they may seem, will advance the kingdom of heaven on earth. And when life here is over, when the evil forces of worldliness and selfishness have done their worst, we shall merely discard the outworn garment which served us so imperfectly and rise to full life and freedom in the spiritual world. The resurrection shows us death as the gateway to life; it enables us to live in the certainty of eternal values.

And the resurrection teaches us another lesson. The Lord is always with us although our physical eyes cannot see Him. He is not far away in heaven, indifferent to our struggles and needs. He is always at the door, waiting to come in when we open to Him. He is nearer to us than any earthly friend we have. He knows us better than we know ourselves. He is always ready to listen and not only willing but able to help us, if only we will trust Him and accept His advice. "And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." He says this to us. And He tells us, as He told the apostles, to go out in the strength of this knowledge and spread the gospel of the kingdom. What we need to remember is that the Gospel is His, not ours — the truth as we find it in the Word, not our own ideas of what the truth ought to be. Again and again we are told in the writings that the Lord's spirit cannot act through falsity. Our church can succeed in the world and in our individual lives only so far as it is truly Christian, so far as it opens the way for the Lord's presence and power by seeking Him in His Word and obeying the truth as He speaks it there.

