
=== From the Writings of Swedenborg

@AC 2405: Concerning the correspondence of dawn: "As in the proper sense the 'morning' signifies the Lord, His advent, and thus the approach of His kingdom, it is evident what it signifies besides, namely, the rise of a new church (for this is the Lord's kingdom on earth), and this both in general and in particular; in general, when any church on the globe is being raised up anew; in particular, when a man is being regenerated, and being made new (for then the Lord's kingdom is arising in him, and he is becoming a church); and in the least particular, whenever the good of love and faith is working in him; for in this consists the advent of the Lord. Hence the Lord's resurrection on the third day in the morning involves all these things (even in the particular and least particular) in regard to His rising again in the minds of the regenerate every day, and even every moment."

@AC 10591-10595: "Man has been so created that he cannot die in respect to his Internal, because he is able to believe in God and also to love God, and thus to be conjoined with God in faith and love; and to be conjoined with God is to live forever. This Internal is in every man who is born. His External is that by means of which he brings into effect the things that belong to faith and love, thus that belong to the Internal. The Internal is what is called the 'soul,' and the External is what is called the 'body.' The external which man carries about in the world has been accommodated to uses in the world. This external is what is laid aside when the man dies; but the external which has been accommodated to uses in the other life does not die. This latter external together with the internal is called a 'spirit'; a good spirit and an angel if the man has been good in the world; and an evil spirit if he has been evil. In the other life the spirit of man appears in the human form absolutely as in the world. He also enjoys the capability of thinking, of willing, and of acting, as in the world. In a word, he is a man in respect to each and all things, except that he is not encompassed with that gross body with which he was encompassed in the world. This leaves behind when he dies, nor does he ever resume it. It is this continuation of life which is meant by Resurrection. ... "

