
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
This is a brief lesson which lends itself to verse—by—verse explanation, especially through verse 10. The young people should be so familiar with the story itself that they should be very much interested in realizing that every detail has a correspondence relating to our ability to see living truth in the Word. Impress them with the idea that as long as we remain in mere knowledge of the letter of the Word, it is as if the Lord sleeps in the tomb, but when we begin to bring forth what we know and put it into use in loving service, the Lord rises and lives in us.

---
Just as we sometimes associate Christmas more with presents and decorations than with the church, so many associate Easter only with lilies and new spring clothes.

It is true that Easter always comes in the spring when we are rejoicing that winter is over and looking forward to the free outdoor life which comes with warmer weather. But no external enjoyment can be more than temporary, and we lose the whole importance of Easter if we do not see that it symbolizes an eternal springtime which we may enjoy if we recognize and accept the fact of the Lord's resurrection. Swedenborg tells us that in heaven it is always springtime (@DLW 104). This is because there we shall be always going forward into new and fuller life and joy. When we depend on ourselves, we are always coming to the end of our powers. Our bodies grow old and wear out. Our minds reach their limits. Our good intentions are balked by ignorance and opposition. Only by means of the Lord's perpetual presence and help can we go steadily forward.

The women at the sepulchre recognized this. They had thought of the Lord as someone greater than themselves, but they had also loved Him as a man, as many people today still try to love Him. When they saw Him die on the cross and saw His body placed in the tomb they did not, as the disciples did, go back to their ordinary occupations. They stayed near the sepulchre and prepared spices to perform the last services for the body of the master they had loved. They represent our affections for truth, which cling to the thought of the Lord even when our minds are turned away by doubts. It is by means of these affections that the Lord can show Himself to us finally as He is. We must learn to put aside our childish ideas of Him as a man who long ago walked about the Holy Land performing miracles, and we must learn to see Him as our ever-present Lord and our all-powerful savior.

Our lesson tells of the measures which were taken first to prevent the resurrection and then, after it took place, to discredit it. This is what worldly reasoning tries to do in our minds. But the resurrection was a fact, a fact proved by the change it wrought in the apostles and by the change which belief in it accomplishes in every Christian life. It makes a great difference in our way of facing every problem of life whether we believe that this life is all there is or believe that it is only the beginning of endless life. Not only death but life looks different.

The disciples met the Lord after His resurrection on a mountain in Galilee. Galilee, we remember, pictures the plane of our outward life and a mountain pictures a high state of thinking. We must be able to lift our thoughts above our natural selfish concerns and to see our everyday life as an opportunity to serve the Lord and the neighbor. Then the Lord walks with us in everything we do. When the Lord told His disciples to meet Him in Galilee, He was telling us to carry His principles into everything we do from day to day. Then our lives, like the apostles, will carry the "good news" to others and help to establish heaven on earth.


