
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Try to find time for studying the first part of the chapter and also to take up verses 11-20, and to compare this account with the accounts given in Mark 16, Luke 24:1-12, and John 20:1-18.

---
What was last Sunday called?

What did the Lord do on that day?

How was He received?

What did He do in the temple?

The disciples thought the Lord was now accepted by all. But the religious leaders and most of the people were looking for a king who would overthrow the Roman government and make Judah a great nation again. They did not want a king who would expect them to change themselves. So they soon turned against the Lord and put Him to death. The Lord was crucified on Friday. During Saturday, the Jewish sabbath, His body lay in the tomb. But early Sunday morning the women who had loved Him came to the sepulchre. Mark and Luke tell us that they brought spices to anoint his body.

What did they find?

Who told them that the Lord had risen?

What had happened when the angel descended from heaven?

As they went away, who met them?

What did He tell them to do?

The accounts of the resurrection in the four Gospels are different in some ways. All the events recorded actually happened. No two people seeing an event remember exactly the same details, but we know that the words of all the Gospels were inspired by the Lord. That is, the Lord recalled to the mind of each of the four writers just what He wanted him to record and gave them the words in which to record it. When you begin to study the Scriptures in their internal sense, you will find that each story of the resurrection has its special lessons.

When the Lord was crucified, all the disciples forsook Him and fled. We read in several places how disheartened they were. They had put all their hopes in Him and He had apparently failed. Suppose they had never seen Him alive again. They would have returned to their homes and taken up their old occupations. They would have remembered some of the things He had told them, but they would have had no Gospel — no "good news" - to preach. There would have been no Christian Church.

How did the leaders try to prevent the truth's being told?

Some people who do not want to believe in the Lord still say the same things.

The Lord passed through death to prove to the disciples and to us that He really is "the resurrection and the life" (John 11:25), that the death of the physical body is nothing but an onward step in our lives, that it does not change us in any way. If someone says to you, "I can't believe in a future life; no one has ever come back to tell us about it," you can say, "But that isn't so: the Lord Jesus came back to tell us just that." Anyone who calls himself a Christian knows this.

Where did the Lord say He would meet His disciples?

In the time of the Lord the Holy Land was divided into three provinces: Judea, Samaria, and Galilee. The Holy Land is a picture of a heavenly character, and there are three divisions in this, too. Judea pictures our heart or will, Samaria our mind or understanding, and Galilee our outward conduct. So the Lord's words tell us that if we wish to come close to the Lord, we must not only mean well and think what is true but we must do what is right. And the place appointed by the Lord was on a mountain. You know that from a mountain we can look down on the land and see a long distance on all sides and see just how everything is located in relation to the whole view. So a mountain pictures a high or spiritual point of view. The Lord is close to us in our everyday life only if we are able to see that life from a high point of view. And His resurrection enables us to take this view of life because it shows us that our life here in this world is just the beginning of eternal life and that it is given us to use under the Lord's direction in such a way that our eternal life will be happy.

Forty days after the Lord's resurrection His ascension took place. Read the story of it in Luke 24:50-53. Even though we do not see the Lord with our physical eyes, He is with us always, as He promised. And we are called, just as the disciples were, to bring to other people the good news that God Himself came into the world in Jesus Christ to show us how to live and to teach us about heaven.

