
=== Primary

Center your story on the first ten verses of the chapter and try to impress the children with the reason why we celebrate Easter. Get their minds away from the thought of bunnies and Easter eggs. Tell them something of what it meant to the disciples and what it means to us to know that the Lord conquered even death and that our own life goes right on just the same after the body dies. Tell them it was to teach us this that the Lord allowed Himself to be put to death.

---
On what day did the Lord come to Jerusalem for the last time?

How did He enter it?

Were the people glad to see Him?

What did He do in the temple?

Within a few days the people turned against the Lord.

Because He told them about their sins, they put Him to death.

The Lord knew all the time that this was going to happen, but He knew what would happen afterward, too, and He was not at all afraid to die. On Thursday night He came back into the city to eat the feast of the Passover with His twelve special disciples. And afterward He let the crowd capture Him, and the next day, Friday, He let them put Him to death.

Two of the leaders who had not agreed with the others got permission from the Roman governor to care for His body. They prepared it for burial in the Jewish fashion and placed it in a new sepulchre or tomb cut out of the rock. A great stone was rolled against the entrance of this sepulchre and it was sealed so that no one could get in. A guard of soldiers was also placed near it.

Who came to the sepulchre very early on Sunday morning? Mary Magdalene was a woman whom the Lord had healed. The "other Mary" was the mother of one of the apostles.

What did the women find?

What are we told had happened when the angel descended from heaven?

What did the angel tell the women?

Who met the women as they went to tell the disciples?

What did He tell them to do?

What day do we celebrate in the church in memory of the resurrection? It is because the Lord rose on Sunday morning that Sunday is called the Lord's day.

This is also the reason why we observe Sunday as the sabbath, instead of Saturday.

After He had talked with His disciples, what did the Lord command them to do?

Forty days after the resurrection the disciples saw the Lord ascend into heaven. We may read the story of the ascension in Luke 24:50-53. (Cf. Acts 1:1-9.) But the Lord promised to be with us always, and He is always with us even though we cannot see Him.

