
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Stress the fact that disbelief in the resurrection, an attitude which these young people will soon meet in the world, is willful — not logical or reasonable. Emphasize also that Easter should mean for us not only belief in a future life but also belief in the power of love over hate and truth over falsity in every problem of life. We really believe in the Lord only so far as we trust and obey Him. Trust and obedience are the measure of our faith, and they will be the measure of our spiritual success.

---
Each of the four Gospels gives us some different details of the Lord's trial, crucifixion, and resurrection. This is not strange, nor should it cause us to doubt any of them. If they were identical accounts, we might well say that one had copied from the other. Four witnesses to the same event will inevitably remember it differently. And we know also that in writing the Word the Lord directed the recollection of the human writers even to the very words they used, and that each Gospel had a sequence of its own important to the spiritual meaning.

In all the Gospels we learn that the first to discover the resurrection were the women who loved the Lord: Mary Magdalene, "out of whom he had cast seven devils," Mary the mother of James the Less, and Salome, the mother of James and John. They had remained near the tomb after it was closed. They picture our affections for truth which cling to the Lord even when external evidence leads us to doubt.

Many people in the world today are like these women who loved the Lord. They still cling to Him blindly and try to keep close to Him even when the Bible is a "sealed book" to their minds. The letter of the Word, when its spiritual sense is not known, is like the tomb with the great stone sealing it.

We cannot see the Lord as He is so long as we cling to the historical figure alone, a man who lived in Palestine hundreds of years ago. The historical Christ must burst the tomb of finite ideas in our minds and rise. Like the women when they saw Him risen, we must worship Him. We hold Him by the feet when we follow His example in our daily lives, but we must also see Him as our God who says to us, as to the disciples, "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth," and "Lo, I am with you always."

The Lord told His disciples to meet Him in Galilee. Galilee means the plane of everyday life. We do not have to withdraw from the world to come close to the Lord. We have only to obey His commandments day by day. But this does not mean that we are necessarily close to the Lord if we do external "good works." The Pharisees did good works "to be seen of men." We read, "Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them." If we are to meet the Lord in the plane of our everyday life, we must look at that life from the high place of His appointment. That is, we must see our everyday affairs as opportunities of serving Him and hold ourselves always subject to His direction. Only in this way will our lives be witnesses of Him.

Today, when Christianity is so often divorced from the Christ of the Gospels, it is well for us to remember that without Him we "can do nothing." Our own ideas of right and wrong are not Christianity. Christianity is a life according to the teachings of Christ, and our only knowledge of those teachings is found in the inspired Word.

Isaiah says, "His name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace." (Isaiah 9:6) This prophecy describes the way in which the Lord rose in the minds of those who loved Him when He was on earth, and the way in which He must rise in our minds.

