
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The best lesson for the Adults is to help them to realize that the most important use they can serve — not only to their Church but to the world — is to study steadily and seriously the Word of God in the light of the internal meaning, to which the writings of Swedenborg are the key, and to try to live their daily lives in this light and be ready to help others from it as opportunity offers.

---
In our world today we face many frightening conditions: wars and rumors of wars, race hatreds, poverty and disease, lust for power, rebellious youth, drug addiction and insanity, business and political dishonesty, sex offenses and murder, decline of the churches. Many good people are staggered by these facts, completely discouraged, even sure the end of the world must be at hand. Many who believe in God fall into the temptation to blame Him, saying, "Why does God permit such things?" Others are drawn into so many kinds of external "good works" that they have no time to read and think, and fall into the habit of blaming everyone who does not do just the same things they do.

Yet the answer has been given us from the beginning: "And the Lord God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat: But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die." Man from his beginning was man, not an animal, because from his beginning he was given rationality and freedom of choice, the power to think above the level of this earth and so to recognize God, and freedom to choose on which level he would live.

If we study the history of mankind in the light of the Word of God, we can see that the decline of mankind from the first happy state to their present state has been the result of man's choice of self-intelligence and love of dominion in place of love to the Lord and the effort to learn of Him and do His will. Our reading for today repeats the fact of our freedom and points out the consequences of the selfish choice. But it also points out to us clearly that in this new age of ours the pure river of truth is still available to quench the thirst of all who really seek it, and the tree of life still grows in the holy city New Jerusalem, yielding fruit to satisfy the needs of every hungry person; and we are told plainly in the vision that "the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations."

The gates of the holy city are open. Let each of us honestly examine himself and face up to his own individual responsibility in the place where the Lord has seen fit to put him, remembering always the last verse of our lesson: "Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city."

