
=== Intermediate

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
With this class review the description of the holy city, stressing the correspondence of the river, the tree of life, the golden street, the gates, and finally the wall and the foundations, thus leading into the special lesson for today.

---
In our lesson on "The Woman and the Dragon" we learned why the nineteenth of June is called "New Church Day." This special lesson is written to help us keep that day in mind and realize more fully what it means to us.

Our lesson begins with the words, "And he showed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb." This beautiful river is a picture of the pure truth as it comes to us from the Lord if we see and acknowledge that He is our king, the ruler of all the world. This new understanding of what the Lord says to us in His Word is the great gift which He has given to us in His Second Coming.

Throughout your study of the Bible in our Sunday School lessons you have been given glimpses of the light which makes the river clear as crystal, but you can see more and more of it only as you make it your own by continued study of the Word and of the writings of Swedenborg, the "servant of the Lord Jesus Christ," the man whom the Lord chose and prepared to be His agent in publishing the necessary knowledge so that all who sincerely wanted it could find it.

You are just beginning this study, as you are also just beginning the study of the material knowledges which will make you useful and successful in this world. You need both kinds of knowledge, but never forget that the knowledge of the Lord and His will is the knowledge which will determine your usefulness and success to eternity. The material world is all around us. It is easy to become absorbed in it and to close our eyes to the light that comes from the Lord. But that is really a very stupid thing to do, isn't it? For the spiritual world is all around us also. Our souls are living in it now. And true happiness for us in this world as well as to eternity can come only from receiving the Lord's truth in our minds and so living in obedience to Him that we may also receive His unselfish love in our hearts, which is to eat of the fruit of the tree of life.

