
=== Junior

See how much the class remembers about the holy city and try to impress them with the importance of reading the Word and learning more and more of its internal meaning in order that they may live the true life of the holy city.

---
In Revelation 22:10 in our chapter for today the angel tells John that "the time is at hand" when his prophecy of the descent of the holy city would be fulfilled, and we have learned that this was to come about by the opening of the inner meaning of the Word so that everyone might see, if he would, that the Lord Jesus is the one God of heaven and earth. This would be the Second Coming of the Lord. And Swedenborg tells us that on June 19, 1770, the twelve disciples who had followed the Lord in the world were sent out to proclaim throughout the spiritual world that "the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns." This is why we call the nineteenth of June "New Church Day."

What is the full name of our Church?

From what does it take this name?

Do you remember any of the details of this city as John saw it in vision?

What did the wall represent?

In our worship services we say together what we call "the Faith of the New Church." Can you repeat it? This is a statement of the doctrine or teaching which the Lord has given us to be the wall of our holy city. We find all these teachings in the letter of the Word of God, but in order to understand them we need to see the light from within shining through. Read Revelation 21:18. Jasper is a beautiful clear stone through which light can shine.

What man did the Lord choose to give us the information which will enable us to see this light?

Do we become New Churchmen by merely saying we believe these things?

The Lord gives us the answer to this question in Revelation 22:4 in our lesson for today. In order to live in the holy city both here on earth and forever in heaven we have to study the Word daily and, as we grow older, also study the Writings of Swedenborg which enable us to see the light within, and we have to try day by day to live according to the teachings we find in this way. It may seem hard at first, but so does the acquisition and use of any knowledge. And the knowledge which we shall need forever is the most important knowledge of all.

