
=== Notes for Parents

The New Church thinks of June nineteenth as a very special anniversary and calls it "New Church Day" because Swedenborg tells us that on that day in the year 1770 the proclamation was made throughout the heavens that "the Lord God Jesus Christ reigns, whose kingdom shall be for ages and ages." This meant that the time had arrived when the final revelation had been made by the Lord by His coming "in the clouds of heaven, with power and great glory," that is, by the opening of the inner meaning of the Word of God so that the light of a true understanding might break through the clouds of its literal sense.

In earlier lessons we have seen how the first Christian Church perverted the teachings on the basis of which it had been started by the apostles. We have also seen how each dispensation of the Church from the beginning of man has declined by similar perversion. Man must always be free to reject the Lord's teaching if he so chooses and to use his reason to support his own selfishness and pride, for without freedom and rationality he would not be man.

Many people today ask, "Why is it so important to acknowledge the Lord and the Word? Is not the really important thing to love others and do good works?" The answer is really very simple. If we do not acknowledge the Lord, we take credit to ourselves for any love of others we may feel, and if we do not study the Word of God to find out what the Lord teaches is good, our deeds are directed by our own ideas and there are as many different ideas of good as there are people. Left to ourselves we all make many mistakes even in trying to do good.

The Lord has now given mankind all the knowledge of Himself and His will that He needs to give. The New Church in the world is founded on the recognition of this gift. All of us who belong to the New Church have the obligation to study the Word of God in the light of its inner meaning, to examine ourselves in this light, and to seek to live from day to day as this light directs. If we do this, although as finite human beings we shall still have differences of opinion, we can discuss our differences in a loving spirit and work together as brothers and sisters, all looking to one all-wise Father for guidance. If we do this, we shall not only live to eternity in the beautiful city described in our lesson, but even in this world we shall be eating of the tree of life, drinking the living water, and walking the golden streets. Our life in this world is successful only if we view it constantly in its relation to eternal life. May we all make the wise choice.

"Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates in to the city."

