
=== Primary

This is the age when it is hardest for children to understand why they cannot always have what they want. The picture of the holy city may give them a new idea to help them begin self-control. Emphasize the effect of selfishness and disobedience both in this world and in the next.

Today we are celebrating a very special day for our Church, June nineteenth, which we call "New Church Day" because it was on that day in the year 1770 that it was announced to the angels that all was now in order for the establishment of the Lord's kingdom, which would last for ages and ages. This was what the apostle John prophesied in his vision of the beautiful city coming down from God out of heaven.

The picture John gives us of the holy city New Jerusalem is a beautiful picture, isn't it? We all think we would like to live there, don't we? And we all can live there if we try. Revelation 22:14 says: "Blessed are they that do His commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city." You see, there is one requirement: we must "do his commandments." We do not get to the holy city all at once or without some effort. Isn't that true of most of the good things we have? We have to get up and dress ourselves in the morning before we can have our breakfast and go to school or out to play. We have to take care of our toys if we want new ones. We have to be kind and pleasant to other people if we want them to be kind and pleasant to us.

If we want to be able to enter the gates of the holy city, we have to do all these things, and as we grow older we shall find more and more to learn and do, and the longer we study the Bible the better we shall understand it. We shall love the Lord better the better we come to know Him. And we shall be more and more happy in doing His will the longer we practice it. The only thing that can hinder us and keep us out of the holy city is selfishness - always wanting our own way instead of the Lord's way.

This means that we ought to study the Bible all our lives.

When people will not study the Bible, it is because they do not really want to know about the Lord and what He wants us to do.

Why do you think anyone would feel this way?

Are you ever selfish?

Are selfish people happy together?

You can see then why selfish people will not be able to live in the holy city. Can you repeat Revelation 22:14? This tells us what we must all learn to do if we are to enter the holy city. Why not begin now?

