
=== Primary

The reading of the lesson from the Word should lead to a discussion of how the Lord feeds all of us, and the connection should be made with the petition in the Lord's Prayer. Discuss the nature of the manna, the reason for its name, the instructions for gathering it, and the length of time during which it was provided for the people.

When Pharaoh finally agreed to let the children of Israel leave Egypt, they gathered together all their possessions and their cattle and left as quickly as they could. Just before they left they had a feast which the Lord had commanded them to hold to celebrate their being set free by Him. They were told to have the same feast every year on that same day always so that they would never forget their deliverance, just as we celebrate Thanksgiving Day every year. They called their feast the Passover because at the time of the last of the ten plagues the angel of death had passed over their homes without injuring any of them.

On their journey back to the Holy Land they were led by the Lord during the day by means of a pillar of cloud, which became a pillar of fire at night. As long as it moved ahead of them, they were to follow it: and when it stopped, they were to stop and camp. Moses was their leader.

When they came to the Red Sea, the Lord parted the waters for them so that they crossed on dry land, and when they could not find water that was good to drink, the Lord showed them how to make the water good.

Wouldn't you think that by this time the children of Israel would have been glad to trust the Lord and obey Him?

But people have a way of forgetting how good the Lord has been to them. Instead of this goodness what did the people soon begin to remember? How did the Lord satisfy their hunger for meat?

What did He give them for bread?

Manna means "what is it?"

How often did they find the manna?

At what time of day did they find it? How much was each person to gather?

An omer is a Hebrew measure equal to three or four quarts. What happened when they tried to keep the manna overnight? There was one exception to this.

On the sixth morning of each week they were to gather enough for two days. This lasted them over the sabbath.

Read verse 31 of our chapter to see what the manna tasted like.

You know that it is really the Lord who gives us our food. We pray, "Give us this day our daily bread," and the Lord feeds us just as truly as He fed the children of Israel in the wilderness.

