
=== Adult

The last point mentioned for the Seniors should be stressed in this class also. Perhaps the best discussion topics are Solomon's sin, the golden calves, the meaning of Jezebel, and the general significance of Elijah's return to Beersheba and to Horeb.

---
Solomon's death marks the passing of the state of joy in doing the Lord's will. The sense of duty remains — his son Rehoboam — in our hearts for a long time. The southern part of the land — Judah — remained faithful to Solomon's line and kept its capital at Jerusalem and its chief worship at the temple. A number of its kings were good. But there is a state of resistance to the rule of the Lord in our minds. The ten northern tribes refused to accept Rehoboam and set up a separate kingdom called Israel, with its capital at Shechem. Jeroboam, the leader of the revolt, was its first king.

Jeroboam naturally was not anxious that the two kingdoms should be reunited, and he recognized that his people would be likely to go back to their old allegiance if they were allowed to continue in their familiar manner and place of worship. So he set up new objects of worship in new places — the golden calves at Bethel and Dan — and inaugurated a new feast to hold the people's interest within the limits of his own territory. "By a calf is signified the good of the external or natural man." (@AC 9391[2]) We are familiar with the thought that the oxen and calves in the Old Testament sacrificial law picture our affections for useful work of an external kind, which should be made sacred to the Lord, that is, done from love to Him and with the recognition that all power to do good is from Him. When the calf is made an object of worship instead of a sacrifice, it means the setting up of external good works as the all of religion, enabling us to give ourselves credit for goodness.

Ahab was the seventh ruler of the separate kingdom of Israel.

The reigning house in Israel had already been changed by violence three times. When our thought life is separated from its true purpose of furthering the growth of the heavenly kingdom, it is easily upset by every new and revolutionary idea. The kings of Israel had been uniformly evil, but it is written of Ahab that he "did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him." He not only continued the worship of the golden calves, but he married Jezebel, the daughter of the king of the Zidonians, who worshiped Baal and set up a temple and altar to Baal in Samaria itself, which Ahab's father had made capital of Israel. The worship of Baal pictures the perversion of worship of the Lord into worship of self. The writings tell us (@AE 159) that Jezebel represents the "delight of the loves of self and the world," or "the church completely perverted," the worship of Baal representing "worship from the loves of self and the world" (@AE 324[21]).

Jezebel was the cause of Elijah's flight to Horeb. Ahab and the people had been convinced by the great demonstration at Mount Carmel of the impotence of Baal and the power of Jehovah, had promised to serve Jehovah, and had willingly seized the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and brought them down to Elijah at the brook Kishon to be slain. The voice of Baal speaking to the mind had been silenced. But the delight of self-love was still very much alive and in the person of Jezebel rose up to slay Elijah.

Jezebel's threat completely discouraged Elijah and caused him to flee. In this flight he left Israel altogether and went far to the south, first to Beersheba, the southernmost city of the Holy Land, prominent in the story of Abraham, and then on to Horeb. When one lacks sufficient understanding of the Word to enable him to defend it against the attacks of the loves of self and the world, his only salvation is in a return to childhood states of trust and obedience. Elijah took another step in the right direction when from Beersheba he went a day's journey into the wilderness and sat down under a juniper (broom) tree and "requested for himself that he might die." This seems to be a picture of complete discouragement, but as is frequently the case the internal meaning is very different. It expresses the recognition of one's own helplessness and ignorance, willingness to rely on the protection of divine providence, and the desire to be completely emptied of self. This is carried further by his lying down to sleep, sleep being the state in which consciousness of self and the world is relinquished and the Lord can come in closer contact with us. The immediate influx of the Divine into this state is pictured by the appearance of the angel with food and drink. The cruse of water is the truth needed, and the cake baked on the coals suggests goodness which has been developed by experience.

This is enough to give us strength to endure temptations until we reach Horeb or Sinai, i.e., the assurance that the commandments are the eternal laws of God. On the mount sheltered in a cave — a state of relative obscurity — Elijah was given the experience of witnessing the wind, the earthquake, and the fire — a demonstration of the upheaval which takes place in the mind, heart, and conduct of the natural man when he tries to conform to the will of God. But he was told that these effects were not the voice of God. They are the necessary reformation which must take place before a person can really hear the still small voice. Then Elijah was ready to leave the cave, wrapping his face in his mantle — making use of the veiling protection of the letter of the Word. He was given the encouragement of knowing that he was not alone in his efforts to serve the Lord, since there were still seven thousand in Israel who had not bowed the knee to Baal. And he was given instructions for the reorganization of Israel: a new king in Syria, a new ruling principle in the external life; a new king in Israel, a new ruling principle in the mind; and a new prophet, a new and stronger voice of the Lord in the land. The occupation of Elisha when Elijah found him pictures the life of devotion to useful service and the desire for the truth needed for such service which are the necessary ground for the commission of a messenger of the Lord.

