
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The general correspondence of the division of the kingdom, of Ahab and Jezebel, of Elijah, and of Jezebel's hatred of Elijah should be discussed.

---
Solomon's glory is a picture of a beautiful state which everyone of us may attain in some degree if he will. But the history of the Old Testament did not end with Solomon. His reign was also a turning point, and a long decline followed it. The seeds of this downfall were sown by Solomon himself. He had been warned (1 Kings 9:1-9) that he and his people must remain faithful to the Lord if they wanted their prosperity to continue. The first eight verses of chapter 11 tell us how Solomon turned away from the Lord and led his people into the worship of other gods. After his death the northern tribes revolted and formed a separate kingdom, which was called Israel. The southern kingdom, which remained faithful to the line of Solomon, was called Judah. Perhaps you remember that David reigned seven years over the southern tribes before he became king over the whole land, and perhaps you remember what that meant.

The division was a natural one. It pictures a division which exists in every one of us. Judah represents our heart or will, and Israel our mind or understanding. You can remember this easily because the south is warmer than the north and we are familiar with the expressions "a warm heart" and "cold reason." Our hearts and our minds do not always work together as one. Sometimes we want very much to do something good but we lack the wisdom to carry out our good desire, and sometimes we know just what we ought to do but don't want to do it. In such situations, our "Judah" and "Israel" are divided and working against each other. Judah kept its capital at Jerusalem where the temple was, and several of its kings were good kings who tried to bring the people back to the worship of the Lord. Our hearts have more good impulses than our minds have true thoughts. We shall have a lesson about one of these good kings of Judah soon.

But Jeroboam, the first king of Israel, who had led the revolt against Solomon's son, was determined to keep his people from going to Jerusalem to worship, because he thought that if they did, they might be drawn back to their true kings. He established his capital at Shechem, and he set up two golden calves for the people to worship, one in Bethel and one in Dan. A king represents a ruling principle. Jeroboam represents the principle that human reason determines what is right and not revelation from the Lord. All the kings who succeeded Jeroboam in Israel followed his example. So Israel represents our minds ruled by the false principle that we do not need the Lord to tell us what is right.

The most powerful and successful, but the worst of these kings, was Ahab. He married Jezebel, daughter of the king of the Zidonians, who was a worshiper of Baal, and they set up the worship of Baal in Israel itself. Some of the enemies in the land had worshiped Baal before this. You remember that Gideon's first work for the Lord was to throw down an altar which had been built to Baal. The worship of Baal is the worship of self — pure selfishness — and Jezebel pictures the enjoyment we get from being selfish. She was the patroness of the prophets of Baal.

It was in the time of Ahab that Elijah, the greatest of the Old Testament prophets, appeared. We think of him as the greatest because he came to be recognized as a symbol of all the prophets. The prophet Malachi (Malachi 4:5) said that Elijah would come again, and the Lord Himself (Matthew 17:10-13) said that this prophecy was fulfilled in John the Baptist, not meaning that John the Baptist was a reincarnation of Elijah, but that he brought the same message from the Lord. At the time of the Transfiguration Moses and Elias (Elijah) were seen talking with the Lord, to represent that the Law and the Prophets taught of Him. The appearance of this great prophet in the time of Ahab shows that no matter how far our minds go astray, there is always in them some knowledge of the Word of God which the Lord can raise up to rebuke and warn us.

Chapter 18 tells the wonderful story of how Elijah proved to Ahab and the people that Baal was powerless to bring them happiness and that the Lord was the true God, and of how he slew the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal by the brook Kishon. The people promised to obey the Lord, but Jezebel was so enraged by the death of her prophets that she swore to kill Elijah. Our natural selfishness tries to silence the Lord's voice in our minds. Elijah had to flee. He imagined that he was the only one in Israel who really desired to serve the Lord, and he begged that he might die. Sometimes we try our best and apparently make no impression. We say, "What's the use?"

Elijah's journey to Horeb and return picture the Lord's dealing with us in our states of discouragement. We are not forced. We are allowed to rest. The angels, who are always with us, speak to us in our quiet states and point out to us a little goodness, a little truth - the cake baked on the coals and the cruse of water — which we have learned by experience. This is enough to give us strength to go to Horeb, to return to the commandments as the laws given us by God, which cannot fail. We are shown how our troubles lead us to the Lord. The wind, the earthquake, and the fire are not the Lord speaking to us, as some people think, but are the effects of His presence on the worldly and selfish things in us. When they have passed and we can be quiet, we hear the still small voice.

Then Elijah was sent back to prepare others to carry on his work. He was encouraged by the knowledge that he was not alone in his worship of the Lord. He was to train another who could carry his message more powerfully. He was to cast his mantle upon Elisha. The mantle of the prophet pictures the letter of the Word. Elisha also was to speak for the Lord. Notice that Elisha was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen when he was called. Oxen picture the affection for leading useful lives, and the number twelve signifies completeness. So the ground of Elisha's ability to become a prophet was the wholehearted desire to be useful, and he was glad to begin his preparation as Elijah's servant.

