
=== Junior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Have the class study a map as you talk of the division of the kingdom, and be sure they know the names of the two divisions, the capital of each, and the location of the golden calves. They can easily understand why Israel rebelled against Solomon's line. They will want to study the map again for Elijah's flight, and to find Elisha's home, as well as Syria and Damascus.

---
You would think, wouldn't you, that Solomon's descendants could have maintained his glorious kingdom for many generations. But when people have everything they want and everyone looks up to them, they sometimes grow careless and imagine that everything they think must be true and that everything they want must be right. They forget that they must go on trying to learn and do the Lord's will if they want to remain great. Read the first nine verses of chapter 9 again to see the warning the Lord had given to Solomon. But Solomon forgot. In his old age he married wives from among the many nations which sought his favor. He built places of worship for the various gods his wives served, and finally he even began to worship with them. In order to support his grandeur he levied heavier and heavier taxes, and the people began to grow dissatisfied.

So after Solomon died, the ten northern tribes revolted against his son Rehoboam. They set up a separate kingdom called Israel, with its capital at Shechem, and made their leader in the revolt, Jeroboam, king. Rehoboam's kingdom was called Judah and continued faithful to the line of Solomon; its capital was Jerusalem.

Jeroboam was afraid that if his people went up to the temple at Jerusalem for the great feasts, they would gradually drift back into allegiance to their true king. So he established a new worship. He set up two golden calves, one in Bethel and one in Dan, and decreed elaborate feasts in connection with their worship. So he turned the people of Israel away from the Lord, and all his successors followed in his footsteps. There were a number of good kings in Judah after Solomon, but every king of Israel was evil. The worst was Ahab, whose wife was Jezebel, a worshiper of the idol Baal. The Lord sent Elijah the prophet to Ahab with a warning, and Elijah proved to the people that the Lord was the true God, and slew the prophets of Baal. Jezebel was the patroness of the prophets of Baal. Naturally she was enraged by their death.

Where did Elijah go to escape her?

Find Beersheba on your map. We associate it with Abraham and Isaac. Most people have times when they are discouraged, especially when they have tried very hard to do right and apparently accomplished nothing.

What happened to Elijah in the wilderness beyond Beersheba?

The Lord is always at hand to encourage us and to revive our spirits with enough of His goodness and truth — the cake and the water - to sustain us for whatever we must do. Angels actually minister to us just as they did to Elijah, only we cannot see them.

Do you remember another name for Horeb?

What happened there?

Elijah knew that the Lord had spoken to Moses at Sinai; so he went there hoping to receive a message from the Lord. And the Lord did speak to him there. When we try to find out what the Lord wants us to do, we sometimes have to go through experiences which will really prepare us to listen and obey. The wind and the earthquake and the fire are pictures of the upsetting things which come to us and make us look to the Lord for help. The Lord was not in them. That is, the Lord does not bring them upon us. He merely permits them to come to us to make us stop and think. The still small voice is His. He speaks to our minds through His Word when we are thinking and meditating quietly about what He would like us to do. Conscience is often spoken of as a still small voice, but we should remember that our conscience can tell us only as much of what is right as we have learned from the Word. That is, the Lord can speak to us from every passage of the Word which we have stored in our minds.

First the Lord gave Elijah something new to do. Then He encouraged him by telling him that he was not alone as he had thought himself to be. There were still seven thousand in Israel who had not bowed the knee to Baal.

Who was to be the next king of Israel?

Who was to be the prophet after Elijah?

What was Elisha doing when Elijah found him?

What did Elijah do to Elisha?

What did Elisha ask to do first?

What offering did he make?

Sometimes today, when some leading person is succeeded by another who promises to follow in his footsteps worthily, you read in the papers that the person's "mantle" has fallen on his successor, and you will know that the expression goes back to this story. In the Word, garments picture the thoughts with which our desires and affections clothe themselves. They are true or false thoughts depending on whether our desires are good or bad. Since Elijah was the Lord's prophet, his mantle pictures the "clothing" of the Lord's truth, which is the letter of the Word of God. The literal story of the Bible is the mantle of the prophet which brings the Lord's truth to us.

