
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
In addition to the points discussed with the Younger Teens, call attention to the meaning of the fact that the Lord was not in the wind, earthquake, and fire. Point out that the upheavals in our lives are not sent by the Lord, but are permitted to come to us when we need them as preparation for listening to the still small voice.

---
Elijah is perhaps the best known of the prophets, partly because of the power of the familiar stories concerning him in the Word, and partly because the ancient Hebrews recognized him as typifying the prophetical part of the Word just as they recognized Moses as standing for the Law. We remember that the three disciples who saw the Lord transfigured saw Moses and Elias (Elijah) talking with Him. Elijah was prophet in Israel in the time of the divided kingdom.

Judah represents the heart or will and Israel the mind or understanding. When a person has grown up with good habits and established himself in a good civil and religious life, he sometimes forgets, as Solomon did, that he must continue to watch his motives and thoughts, as well as his acts, and keep them faithful to the Lord's truth. Just as Solomon did, he unites himself to many ideas and aims belonging to the world around him and foreign to his religious principles. Then he finds himself in a divided state. He continues to have good intentions — Judah remained more or less faithful for a long time — but his mind is full of worldly ideas and governed by principles opposed to the acceptance of the Word.

Elijah, like all the prophets, represents the Word of God. He was raised up by the Lord to rebuke and warn Ahab, the most powerful and most evil of the kings of Israel. Ahab had brought into Israel the worship of Baal — self-worship — because he had married Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal ("Baal's man") king of the Zidonians. Jezebel represents the delights of the love of self and the world. She is sometimes considered the worst woman in history, and the expression "a regular Jezebel" is an epithet applied to women who do great harm to those around them. She maintained four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal. The powerful story of the test carried out by Elijah at Carmel and of his slaying of the prophets of Baal is told in the chapter preceding our chapter for today.

Ahab and the people were convinced by the proof Elijah offered of the power of the Lord. But Jezebel was merely enraged. When the truth is presented to us in convincing form, everything that is selfish in us rises up to fight it.

Elijah's discouragement and flight picture the feeling we sometimes have that our deep selfishness is too strong for us and that it is of no use for us to struggle against it. The Lord's dealing with us in this state is beautifully pictured in the incidents of Elijah's journey. First he went to Beersheba, "the well of the oath," Abraham's home, which pictures going back to our childhood state of simple trust in the Lord's promises. This must be our first step when we are discouraged. There Elijah left his servant, the reasonings proper to the natural man, and went a day's journey into the wilderness - one more step in admission of his helplessness. There he sat down under a juniper tree. (This is not the juniper with which we are familiar, but a species of broom which is common in the wilderness of the Sinai peninsula. It was useful for shade. John Worcester in "Plants of the Bible" suggests that it pictures a belief in the working of the Lord's providence upon earth.) Elijah "requested for himself that he might die." In the letter this means complete discouragement, but inwardly it suggests rather the desire to be emptied of self. And this is borne out by the fact that he then lay down and slept, for in sleep our self-consciousness is dormant and the Lord can draw nearer to us. The coming of the angel twice with bread and water is the refreshment and enlightenment which the Lord grants as soon as self-will is wholly put aside, renewing both the mind and the heart. In the strength of that food Elijah went to Horeb, or Sinai, always the symbol of the commandments, and there braved the wind, the earthquake, and the fire — symbols of temptation in thought, act, and will — and was given to recognize that the voice of the Lord was not in these, but in the quiet meditation which follows when they are past. Then he was comforted with the assurance that there were still seven thousand in Israel who had not bowed the knee to Baal. There are always people who are ready to stand with us for what is right if we look for them.

Elijah was sent back to complete his own work by preparing another to carry it further. Elijah and Elisha both represent the letter of the Word, but Elisha, as we shall see later, represents the letter used with a deeper understanding of its source and meaning. The fact that when Elijah found him, Elisha was ploughing with twelve yoke of oxen pictures the truth that the effort to do good as fully and thoroughly as possible is the best ground for an ability to understand the Word and to use it for spiritual help.

