
=== Adult

Good topics for discussion are the reason why outward miracles were performed by the Lord and why they are not performed today, what "magical miracles" are, the difference between "possession" then and now, and the various statements of the Lord concerning death and resurrection.

This chapter gives us an opportunity to consider three different types of miracles. We know that the Lord performed the miracles primarily for the sake of the Word, that through their spiritual meaning they might reveal His power to heal and restore to spiritual health and life all who look to Him.

In the beginning of our chapter the Lord has crossed the Sea of Galilee to "the country of the Gadarenes." The cross—Jordan country pictures the life which has not been developed under instruction from the Word. Possession by devils was a very real thing in the Lord's day and could happen even to one who wanted to be good. We know that there are always with us both angels and evil spirits. The evil spirits suggest wrong thoughts and stir up our natural, selfish desires; and the angels at the same time recall to our minds and hearts the knowledge of truth which is in our memories and the good desires we have felt in the past. So we are kept in freedom to choose between what is true and what is false, and between what is good and what is evil, and to do either the right or the wrong. In this way we build our characters by our own free choice. In the Lord's day, however, the truth had been so mixed with falsity by the religious leaders that there was not enough good and truth in the people's minds to balance the falsity and evil. So the evil spirits could get possession of anyone.

We know that the demoniac was essentially a good man because "when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him." The life he had been living is a picture of the life of a good man possessed by evil spirits. He lived sometimes in the mountains and sometimes in the tombs. That is, he had his times of high thought and resolve, but at other times his lowest nature controlled him. Swedenborg says that sepulchres "because of the dead bodies and bones in them, signify things unclean, and thus things infernal." The people of the city had tried to bind him with chains, but he had broken them. Such a man tries hard to control his passions so that he may live an orderly life like that of other men, but the evils always break out again. And so he goes about unhappily, condemning himself by such standards as he has — "cutting himself with stones."

When the demoniac finally recognized the Lord and came to Him for help, the Lord commanded the evil spirits to come out of him and afterward he was found by the people "sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind." The Lord overcame all the temptations from the hells which attacked Him in His assumed human nature, and holds the hells subject; so if we sincerely wish to get rid of our evils and look to Him for help, He will cast them out for us. It is not by accident that the man was afterward found "sitting." Sitting pictures a settled condition, here a state of security and peace. That it may also represent a state of confirmed evil we learn in the first verse of the first Psalm. "Clothed" we recognize as meaning furnished with truth appropriate to his state, and "in his right mind" means restored to the use of his reason and free choice. Whenever we are unwilling to trust in the Lord and accept His guidance, we are for the time being spiritually insane.

Swedenborg tells us that devils are those who have allowed themselves to believe that the whole of life is in the satisfaction of their physical appetites. So they believe that if this satisfaction is taken away, they will perish utterly, and this was why the devils asked to be allowed to go into the swine, for swine picture just this kind of low, selfish desire. But actually the devils destroyed the swine, for our physical appetites, if indulged as the whole object of life, in the end destroy the very satisfaction they crave. When we overeat, for example, we may become too sick to enjoy food. The picture of the whole herd of swine running "violently down a steep place into the sea" is given us as a warning against allowing any physical appetite to get control of us.

The other two miracles in our lesson took place in Galilee, after the Lord had re—crossed the Sea of Galilee. They are both recorded in the same order in Matthew and Luke also; so we may be sure that there is a very close connection between them in the spiritual sense.

We should first note that Jairus was a "ruler of the synagogue."

We know that very few of the prominent Jews accepted the Lord's claim to be the Messiah. Besides Jairus, we know of Nicodemus and of Joseph of Arimathea, who after the crucifixion begged the Lord's body of Pilate and laid it in his own new tomb. It is not easy for those in prominent places to make a radical change in their lives which they know will not prove popular. The state of Jairus is pictured by the type of his need. His daughter — Luke says his only daughter — lay at the point of death, and she was a child of twelve years of age. Daughters picture affections, and the number twelve throughout the Scriptures is the symbol of all good and truth in one complex. So Jairus pictures those of the orthodox and well—instructed who still had concern for genuine goodness and truth and recognized that they were on the point of losing it altogether.

The woman of the multitude who had the issue of blood represents the uninstructed people who were in a like recognition, the loss of blood signifying constant ebbing of truth necessary to a good life. Both had faith in the Lord's power to heal, and some knowledge of how this healing could be effected. Jairus asked the Lord to come and lay His hands on his daughter. Swedenborg tells us that the laying on of hands signifies the transmission of power through the fullest conjunction. Jairus possessed the knowledge necessary for such conjunction, and the Lord fulfilled his desire. The woman took the simplest and most humble means. She did not even speak to the Lord. We are reminded of the publican in the temple who "would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven." She had such faith that she felt that if she but touched the Lord's garment - Luke says "the border of his garment" — she would be made whole. The Lord's garment of course pictures the letter of the Word and the border or hem the ten commandments in which the law of life is summed up. The power which healed the woman was the power of simple obedience to the commandments with recognition of their divine origin. We recall the Lord's teaching in Matthew 19:17, " ... there is none good but one, that is God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments."

The power of the Lord to revive the spiritual life even of the religious leaders is pictured in the simple account of the raising of the little girl. The Lord's words, "The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth," accurately expressed the spiritual state of Jairus, in which the remains of goodness and truth had not been completely destroyed. And the Lord's command after the miracle that something be given the girl to eat, pictures the necessity of feeding the spiritual life once it was awakened.

There is a clear progression in the four miracles of raising from the dead recorded in the Gospels. The first was the son of the widow of Nain, the picture of the restoration of truth to one who has lost it; the second is this of our story today, the reviving of good affections in those who have the truth; the third is the raising of Lazarus, the restoration of one who has had both goodness and knowledge and has apparently lost them; and the final one is the resurrection of the Lord Himself, the full manifestation of divine life and power.

