
=== Adult

After reviewing very briefly chapters 19-31, it may be well to read aloud Exodus 24:12-18, as it forms a good basis for the introduction of the principal points in our story for the day. The important lesson is the insidious effect of neglecting the study of the Word and the writings and assuming that we can live good lives without such study.

---
We think of Sinai as the place where the ten commandments were given. The Word tells us that the mountain was covered with smoke, that there were thunder and lightning, and that all the people heard the living voice of the Lord speaking the commandments from the top of the mount. The objection which historians sometimes offer — that the commandments were not new with the Israelites but have been found embodied in codes of law existing before the time of Moses — in no way invalidates the account given in the Word. The commandments are the basic laws of order on which society has been founded from the beginning. They were known through perception by the people of the Most Ancient Church and through revelation by the people of the Ancient Church. They were embodied in the Egyptian code. But by the time of the Exodus men had forgotten that they were divine, not man-made laws, and what is regarded as man-made is subject to change by man. We have plenty of evidence of this in the attitude of our modern world toward the ten commandments. Every one of us needs spiritually to hear the voice of the Lord speaking the commandments. They are divine laws. They are not only laws of outward order, but spiritual laws which cannot be broken without spiritual harm, whatever popular sanctions may do to weaken their outward observance and effect.

In considering our story for today, we should note that the commandments have been given, that Moses has been up and down the mountain more than once, receiving instruction from the Lord and bringing it to the people, and that each time the people have pledged themselves to obey the Lord in all things. But now Moses and Joshua have both been in the mount a long time. We should read verses 12 to 18 of chapter 24 to get the background of our lesson, recalling that Moses represents divine law as it is given us in the Word, Joshua "the truth fighting," Aaron the law as it comes to us through the church, and Hur the religious principles which we have confirmed by our own meditation and experience.

If ever we say to ourselves, "I really don't need to read the Word regularly myself; I was brought up on it and I hear it in church, and after all I can't understand it very well," Moses — spiritually understood — has withdrawn into the cloud on the top of the mount and we do not know what has become of him. Or if we say, "I haven't time to study my religion to see just how I should apply it; I know my principles are good and so I'm not likely to do anything really bad," Joshua has also left us and is somewhere up on the mountainside waiting for Moses to come down. Finally, if we say, "I'm a member of the church in good standing and respected in the community; that's enough for me," Aaron and Hur have been left in charge of us.

What had happened? Moses had told the people to go to Aaron and Hur if they had "a cause" (Exodus 24:14) while he was gone. They went to Aaron, but not for direction or advice. They said to him, "Up, make us gods, which shall go before us." And Aaron proceeded to make them a god out of their own earrings. We remember that when Jacob returned from Haran and was commanded to build an altar at Bethel, he prepared his people for worship by making them put away their strange gods. Genesis 35:4 tells us: "And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem." The ear signifies obedience, and earrings the delight of obedience. In the Jacob story and again in our story today, the obedience and its delight were those of external and worldly loves.

When Moses later rebuked Aaron, Aaron said (verse 24): "And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it off. So they gave it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf." So Aaron disclaimed responsibility. But the fact was different, for verse 4 tells us concerning Aaron and the earrings: "And he received it at their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf." Swedenborg says (@AC 10406) that this forming with a graving tool, when said concerning an idol, is "to prepare false doctrine from one's own intelligence, which is effected by the application of the sense of the letter of the Word in favor of the loves of self and the world; for when these loves reign, the man is not in any enlightenment from heaven, but takes all things from his own intelligence, and confirms them from the sense of the letter of the Word, which he falsifies by a wrong application and a perverted interpretation, and afterwards favors such things because they are from himself."

The golden calf is what results from this process. The calf represents "external or natural good," and the calf as an idol represents the setting up of "natural or sensuous delight" as the supreme object of life. That is, when we no longer depend upon the Word as our constant guide, and cease to make use of divine truth to expose and overcome the evils within us, these evils inevitably take possession not only of our hearts but of our minds; our worship is performed from motives of self-love, and our minds seek and accept only such things as agree with that love.

Then Moses and Joshua returned. We are suddenly confronted with divine truth and its judgment. How often this happens to all of us! We go along smoothly in our accustomed ways and build up a pleasing image of ourselves; then some story or quotation from the Word strikes home and brings us face to face with our real selves.

In our story two things happened. In the hand of Moses were the tables of stone hewn by the Lord from the top of the mount and inscribed by "the finger of God" with the ten commandments. Moses broke these tables. The Lord would prefer that we receive the commandments as laws of love, in their high spiritual form. But our minds are functioning on a low plane. The tables on which the commandments were later written — the ones which were placed in the ark — were hewn out by Moses from the foot of the mount. The letter of the law had finally to be given in the harsh form in which alone it would be listened to by the Israelites and by all in selfish and worldly states. And, although the golden calf was destroyed, the powder to which it was reduced was mixed with the water which the people drank. We may be brought to recognize and reject the principle of worldliness and self-interest, but the falsities which have come from it, like the dust of the golden calf, continue to mingle with the truth which enters our minds. So long as we are in this world we should see and acknowledge that there is an element of self in everything we think and do.

