
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of idol worship and of the golden calf in particular should be made the central emphasis of the lesson. Point out also why the first tables had to be broken, and why the second tables were hewn from rock found at the foot of the mount.

---
The ten commandments were given by the voice of the Lord amid thunders and lightnings, and all the people heard the Lord speak them. They were not new laws. People had always had them and they are embodied in the laws of every nation in the world, but they are laws which we should recognize as God—made. not man-made. They cannot be broken anywhere or at any time without spiritual as well as natural harm resulting. This is why they were spoken by the Lord from Sinai.

Then the Lord called Moses up to the top of the mountain and gave him many other laws to give to the people. If you will read over the chapter headings of chapters 21 to 23, you will see what they were like, and they are given in still more detail in the book of Leviticus. They were for the most part what we call civil laws. In their letter they apply to the Israelites, but in their spiritual sense they are for all men for all time.

Then Moses went up again to receive the directions for their worship — the plan and furnishings of the tabernacle, the clothing of the priests, and the required offerings — and finally he was given two tables of stone on which the ten commandments were written "with the finger of God." During this last period of instruction, Moses withdrew into the thick cloud which covered the top of the mount, and was there for forty days and forty nights. Forty pictures a full period of temptation. When any temptation persists, we are likely to reach a state in which we feel we cannot resist it any longer. The Israelites, imagining themselves deserted by Moses, finally wavered in their allegiance to the unseen God and wanted something tangible to worship. In much the same way. we may come to feel that spiritual virtues are shadowy, and that worldly success is the only real aim in life.

Cattle were favorite idols in Egypt. This was because the Egyptians loved the good things of this world and worldly learning, and cattle represent external or natural goodness and its affections. When cattle cease to perform the uses for which they are intended and are instead set up as objects of worship, their correspondence becomes evil. So the idol which Aaron made represents the fact that the Israelites cared more for the things of the world than they did for the Lord and His service.

We often read in the Bible: "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear." Hearing represents obedience, and these words really mean, "If your mind is open to the Lord's teaching, obey it." Golden earrings represent the happiness which results from obedience to the Lord. But when we become worldly and selfish, this happiness is lost. So when the golden earrings were separated from the ears of the people, they became a golden calf. Do you remember where we have heard about earrings before? It was in the lesson about Jacob's return, when he had the people take off the earrings they had worn in Haran, and buried them under an oak in Shechem before they could worship the Lord truly at Bethel. The earrings worn in Haran represented the former natural state of their motives.

The two tables which Moses first brought down were of stone from the top of the mountain. They picture the commandments in the high spiritual form in which the Lord would like to give them to us. But the Israelites were in no state to understand or appreciate spiritual things, and so the first tables were broken. The second tables were hewn by Moses from the foot of the mount and carried up to be inscribed. These picture the present hard, external form of the commandments, the only form in which they could make any impression on people in low worldly states.

After Moses broke the first tables, he destroyed the golden calf, but the powder to which he reduced it was sprinkled on water and given to the Israelites to drink. This is a picture of the fact that, although the people of the Church from that time on observed in their external form all the laws given them through Moses, the spiritual truth which was within them was falsified by worldly and selfish loves.

