
=== Junior

The teacher should have a picture of Mount Sinai to show to the class, and should be sure all the pupils know how the commandments were given, why the first tables were broken, and that the second tables were hewn from the foot of the mount. Discuss with them the reason why the people wanted a visible idol to worship, and our likeness in this to the Israelites.

---
Mount Sinai is a wedge-shaped mass of rock rising steeply out of a large plain. Its top is between eight and nine thousand feet above sea level. The mountain mass is two miles long and one mile broad, and the plain at the foot is about two miles long and half a mile broad — some four hundred acres in extent. The air in that region is wonderfully clear both for seeing and for hearing.

The ten commandments were spoken by the voice of the Lord Himself from the top of Mount Sinai amid thunder and lightning and smoke, and all the people heard them. Read Deuteronomy 5:22-24. Then Moses was called up into the mountain to receive these same laws written by the finger of the Lord upon two tables of stone cut from the top of the mountain, and to be instructed in all the laws which the people were to obey, particularly as to their worship. He was given also the directions for the construction of the tabernacle and its furnishings. As we read all these instructions in the chapters of Exodus, we find that they were not all given at once. Moses came down several times to instruct the people, and each time they all agreed to obey all that the Lord had commanded. When Moses went up, Joshua was his attendant and was allowed to go part way with him, and waited for him on the mountainside. This shows us that Joshua was closer to the Lord than most of the people, which is something we want to remember. Aaron and Hur were left in charge of the people down on the plain.

But the last time Moses was called up, he stayed in the cloud on the mountaintop for forty days and forty nights, and the people decided that he was gone for good. They forgot all the wonders the Lord had showed them and all that they had promised. Does this seem strange? Did you ever learn something new in Sunday school which made you feel very enthusiastic about being good? How long did you stay good? Perhaps you forgot even more quickly than the Israelites did.

What did they ask Aaron to do?

They were used to seeing idols worshiped in Egypt, and one of the principal Egyptian idols was the calf. They wanted a god they could see and touch. It seemed more real to them. It is hard for many people to believe that anything they cannot see and touch is real, even though they know that the most powerful things in nature itself are invisible forces.

What did Aaron take to make the idol?

In what other story have we heard of earrings?

How did Aaron make the calf?

Read verse 4 of our chapter and then verse 24. When Moses rebuked Aaron, Aaron tried to make it seem as though he had had no real part in making the idol. Do we ever try to "get out" of something in this way?

What was Moses carrying when he came down from the mountain?

What did he do with them?

What did he do with the golden calf?

How did he punish the people?

Moses was very angry, but still he prayed to the Lord to forgive the people.

After this the Lord had Moses hew out two tables of stone from the foot of the mountain and bring them up to the top, and then the Lord wrote the commandments again on these new tables and Moses took them down to the people. These were the two tables of stone which were afterward kept in the ark.

Then the Lord made a covenant or agreement with the children of Israel. They were to worship the Lord alone and to destroy idols wherever they found them. They were not to intermarry with the people of the countries through which they passed or in which they lived. They were to offer to the Lord the first fruits of all their cattle and crops. And they were to observe each year three great feasts: the Passover, the "feast of weeks" at the time of the early wheat harvest, and the feast of the in-gathering at the end of the year when all their crops were safely gathered in. So the Lord tried to help them not to forget Him again, and He promised that if they would do these things faithfully, He would bless them. All the Lord's commands are given for our good, so that He will be enabled to bless us and make us happy.

