
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The worldly and selfish state of the Israelites and our own liability to drift into this same state are the points to be brought out clearly in this class. As the Seniors go out into the world, "Moses" is very likely to seem to "vanish into the cloud on top of the mount." If they get a clear picture now of the temptation involved, they will be more likely to recognize and resist it when it comes.

---
The children of Israel had been in the wilderness about three months when they came to Sinai and camped in the great plain before the mount. Historians point out that the ten commandments were embodied in the laws of ancient peoples before the time of Moses, and so some people discredit the story of the giving of the commandments by the Lord from Sinai. But this is not a logical conclusion. If the commandments are the laws of God, they are basic laws which must always have been known and followed in every orderly social group. The Israelites were a people who had been living in slavery without any government of their own, and who had forgotten even the name of the true God. They were also a people who had lost all desire for any but earthly satisfactions. So the Lord could direct their history without interfering with their spiritual freedom. Because their interest was centered in externals, He could lead them through fear of punishment and hope of reward to establish an external pattern of worship in which by its correspondence He could maintain His connection with mankind until the time came for His own Advent into the world.

Our story for today tells this fact in symbolic form. And it shows us also how the Lord deals with us when we are in worldly states. Moses, we remember, represents divine law, the truth as it comes to us in the Word. Moses had been called up into the mount to receive instructions for the building and care of the tabernacle. Joshua was allowed to go part way with him, and Aaron and Hur were left in charge of the people. Moses disappeared into the cloud on the top of the mount and was gone forty days and forty nights. In much the same way, sometimes our sense of the direct leadership and power of the Lord seems to vanish, and we are left to the guidance of our religious training and our habitual moral code. In these times, when our spiritual life seems at a low ebb, we are liable to go astray and to fall into worldly thoughts and loves. Forty pictures a full state of temptation.

Cattle represent our affections for worldly uses — business, professions, art, music, scholarship, science — all of which are good so long as they are made to serve the Lord and the neighbor, and not set on a pedestal to be worshiped for themselves. The calf pictures the love of learning about such worldly uses. So here the worship of the calf is the setting up of worldly success as the all-important things in life. Anyone who is too busy pursuing his profession or his art or his business or his pleasure to read the Word or to go to church is a worshiper of the golden calf.

Then Moses comes down from the mountain. Our state is suddenly exposed to the judgment of divine law. Moses has in his hand the two tables of stone on which the commandments had been written by the finger of God. These picture the divine laws as they come to us from the Lord, the basic laws of a happy life. But the Israelites have become incapable of recognizing any values except earthly ones. The first tables must be broken. The idolatry which has been set up must be destroyed, but the truth can be given only in a defiled form, falsified by the selfish loves which the people have allowed to take possession of their lives. The golden calf, burnt and ground to powder, is sprinkled on the water which the people will drink.

After the destruction of the first tables and of the calf and the punishment of the people, described in the last part of chapter 32, Moses was again called up to the mount. He was told to hew two new tables of stone from the foot of the mount and bring them up with him that the same commandments might be written on them. This is told in chapter 34. People often ask why the Word of God is given in such a harsh form instead of in a high, spiritual way. This story is the answer. The first tables were cut by the Lord from the top of the mount. This pictures the truth in the high and spiritual form in which it proceeds from the Lord. But the people had turned from the worship of the Lord, as people do today, and were not in a state to receive spiritual instruction. So the first tables had to be broken and new ones hewn from the stone at the foot of the mount. The same commandments were to be given, but they had to be given in terms adapted to the low, worldly states of the people. So, too, at the end of chapter 34 it is recorded that when Moses finally came down from the mount, his face was shining, and that he had to veil his face before the people would come near him. In our selfish and worldly states we will not listen to the truth in its higher and beautiful forms, but must be kept in order by harsh commands and threats: we cannot bear to look upon the truth in its purity.

