
=== Notes for Parents

The book seen in vision in the Lord's hand is the book we have been studying all year, the Word of God, and if the Lord had not fulfilled this vision, we could not have had the teaching we have had this year. There would be no new understanding of the Word in the world, and no New Church.

For the New Church is founded on the opened Word. Six hundred years before the time of John's vision the Lord had said to the prophet Daniel: "But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased." And when the Lord was in the world, He said to His disciples: "I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now." Many centuries had to pass after John's time before men's knowledge had increased to the point where the Lord could finally open the sealed book and show us the things which are hidden within it. But He did do this nearly two hundred years ago.

In John's prophetic vision the seven seals were opened one after another, and strange and dreadful things happened with the opening of each seal. You know how it is with a truth from the Word, such a truth, for example, as "Thou shalt not steal." You learned it when you were a little child and at first it was just words. But you were taught that you must not take toys or candy or money that belongs to someone else, and that you have to make yourself remember and obey. Then someday you realized that saying bad things about someone else is stealing, too — stealing his reputation - and you have had to learn to control your temptation to idle gossip. Then you were perhaps tempted to take credit for some good work which someone else had actually done, and it came home to you that that is stealing, too. Finally it may have been pointed out to you that since the Lord alone is good and wise and everything comes to us from Him, taking credit to ourselves for any goodness or knowledge we may seem to have is really stealing from the Lord. And that gives us the hardest struggle of all. So one by one the seals which closed those four words — "Thou shalt not steal" — have been opened, and with each opening came a deeper temptation and a more severe conflict. But the rewards of victory, as we shall see, are greater each time.

