
=== Adult

There is so much in this lesson that the teacher has a wide range of possible emphases. He should perhaps read to the class first the summary of the spiritual meaning of this lesson found in @AC 131-136, and then let the class decide what particular phase of the subject they would like to discuss.

Of our lesson for today Swedenborg says (@AC 137): "The first three chapters of Genesis treat in general of the Most Ancient Church which is called 'Man' (homo), from its first period to its last, when it perished: the preceding part of this chapter treats of its most flourishing state, when it was a celestial man; here it now treats of those who inclined to their Own, and of their posterity."

We have considered the Creation story in its relation to the regeneration of the individual, but it also treats of the development of the first people into a church — the Most Ancient Church. Of these first people, when they were placed on the earth, Swedenborg said (many years before Darwin) that their posture was not erect and that they lived an animal-like existence, but they were from the beginning men and not animals. It is interesting to compare the speculations of anthropologists with this statement from The Divine Providence (nos. 275-276): "The love into which man was created is love of the neighbor, to the end that he may wish as well to the neighbor as to himself and even better, and may be in the delight of that love when he is doing good to the neighbor; nearly the same as a parent's love for his children. This love is truly human, for there is in it a spiritual [element] that distinguishes it from the natural love that belongs to brute animals. If man were born into that love he could not be born into the thick darkness of ignorance, as every man now is, but into a certain light of knowledge and intelligence therefrom: and into these he would quickly come. At first, of course, he would creep like a quadruped, but with an inherent endeavor to raise himself up upon his feet; for however much like a quadruped he would not turn his face downward to the earth but forwards towards heaven, and would so raise himself up as to be able to look upwards. But when love of the neighbor was turned into love of self, and this love increased, human love was turned into animal love, and man from being a man became a beast, with the difference that he was able to think about what he felt in the body, and could rationally discriminate one thing from another, and could be taught, and could become a civil and moral man, and finally a spiritual man." It is important to see the distinction between this idea — that the human race began as man and descended to the level of the beast in the period before our commonly accepted records begin — and the assumption of some evolutionists that the race began as an animal and worked itself up to its present state.

Our story for today, one of the best-known and perhaps most frequently ridiculed of the early stories of the Bible, treats of the beginning of the decline of the Most Ancient Church. The reason for this decline is stated very clearly in @AC 139: "In ancient times those were said to 'dwell alone' who were under the Lord's guidance as celestial men, because such were no longer infested by evils, or evil spirits." But the Lord foresaw that men would not be content to "dwell alone" with Him. All along the way of the first development there were those who chose not to accept what the Lord taught them. But at this point in the story even the posterity wishing to be led by self was still in the desire to obey the Lord; therefore the Lord could vivify and enlighten the self to which these men looked for guidance. "That by 'a help as with him' (a helper suitable for him) is signified man's Own, is evident both from the nature of this Own, and from what follows. As however the man of the church who is here treated of was well disposed, an Own was granted him, but of such a kind that it appeared as it were his own, and therefore it is said 'a help as with him'" (@AC 140). The Hebrew word here translated "as with" and in the King James version "meet for" actually means "opposite" or "complementary to." In the relation of this story to the doctrine of marriage (see Matthew 19:3-9), this word indicates what husband and wife should be to each other. We know that a true human marriage is the highest ultimation among men of the union of the Divine Love and Wisdom in the Lord. We should therefore seek in marriage nothing less than a perfect mating of hearts and minds, and we should hold this ideal before our children. This does not mean that there will never be differences of opinion between husband and wife, but that as both look to the Lord for guidance and hold the same basic principles, differences will be resolved amicably and with satisfaction to both. In @AC 155 Swedenborg points out that inmostly this passage treats of the heavenly marriage between the Lord and His kingdom, which can be called the "bride and wife" of the Lord.

But the part of the story on which we perhaps need most to dwell is that which shows the nature of man's Own or proprium and why it was taken out of him and made by the Lord into a living thing which he could love without harm. The Garden of Eden represents the state of the men of the Most Ancient Church. The four rivers represent truth from the Lord flowing into the various planes of the mind. The tree of life in the midst is the perception that all life, knowledge, and power are from the Lord, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil man's power to choose between God and self. We note that first the Lord brought to Adam all the beasts and fowl of the garden that he might give them names. The beasts and fowl are men's affections and thoughts. Thus Adam is asked to examine his affections and thoughts and determine their quality. "That to 'call by name' signifies to know the quality, is because the ancients, by the 'name' understood the essence of a thing, and by 'seeing and calling by name,' they understood to know the quality" (@AC 144). We all, before we take any important step in life, need such self-examination.

@AC 147 gives in very simple terms the outline of the spiritual meaning of the crucial verse, Genesis 2:21: "By a 'rib' which is a bone of the chest, is meant man's Own, in which there is but little vitality, and indeed an Own which is dear to him; by 'flesh in the place of a rib,' is meant an Own in which there is vitality; by a 'deep sleep' is meant the state into which he was let so that he might seem to himself to have what is his own, which state resembles sleep, because while in it he knows not but that he lives, thinks, speaks, and acts from himself. But when he begins to know that this is false, he is roused as it were out of sleep, and becomes awake."

The bones, in which there is little life and yet which support and give form to the whole body and protect the delicate internal organs, naturally represent man's Own, the proprium, by which each individual is distinguished from every other. We need to see this Own as it really is and then to see it as it can be when filled with the Lord's spirit. "The Own of man, when viewed from heaven, appears like a something that is wholly bony, inanimate, and very ugly, consequently as being in itself dead, but when vivified by the Lord it looks like flesh. For man's Own is a mere dead thing, although to him it appears as something, indeed as everything. Whatever lives in him is from the Lord's life, and if this were withdrawn he would fall down as dead as a stone; for man is only an organ of life, and such as is the organ, such is the life's affection" (@AC 1492). "But truly the things of man's Own that have been vivified by the Lord appear beautiful and lovely, with variety according to the life to which the celestial of the Lord can be applied" (@AC 154).

The fact that the Lord Himself (Matthew 19:3-12) used a portion of today's lesson to point out to the Pharisees the true nature of marriage should help us to realize that the basis of a true marriage must be a oneness of thought and purpose. We should bring up our children from the start to feel that marriage is a holy thing, that the Lord's spirit must be in it in order that the married pair may respect and love each other and may stand before the world as one. It is very important that parents exhibit this oneness to their children, by forming their judgments on the basis of the same spiritual principles and by coming into agreement as to what they will and will not allow their children to do. Neither parent should rule the other; rather, differences of opinion should be resolved by serious consideration from the common ground of their spiritual beliefs. And the children should be educated from the start in these spiritual beliefs.

