
=== Intermediate

The Intermediates, as usual, should be given at least the outline of the spiritual sense, and there are a number of correspondences, suggested in these notes, which should be especially developed. They are just at the age when they are wishing to be independent; so the lesson about the wrong and the right kind of independence should be valuable — and also helpful to their parents.

---
The Creation story is a picture of how our lives develop from infancy to adulthood. Swedenborg tells us that the human race developed in this same order from the darkness of ignorance to knowledge of the Lord and the love of doing His will, which is true manhood and womanhood. The Garden of Eden, of which the second chapter of Genesis tells us, is a picture of the happy, peaceful state of these people after they had learned enough to become a church — the Most Ancient Church. Their lives were like a fruitful garden, full of beautiful thoughts and good affections. Swedenborg says they had open communication with the heavens, and that they thought very little about the earthly part of their lives, but lived close to the Lord and knew that everything they had came from Him. He calls them "celestial" people. As our chapter tells, the garden was watered by four rivers, truth for all planes of man's mind; and in the center was the tree of life, the perception that all life, knowledge, and power are from the Lord.

But we remember that these people did have an earthly side as well as a heavenly side. It was natural that as time went on they should think more and more about themselves as independent human beings and want to decide things for themselves instead of accepting all their ideas from the Lord. This is also a stage in our own development. You know that you are approaching the time when you will have to "live your own lives" — to make your own decisions, no longer depending on your parents to guide you. In fact, you already sometimes want to do this, don't you? The Lord knew just how these early people felt, and He knows just how you feel. You don't mean to be bad. You mean to be good — to obey the Lord — but you want to decide things for yourselves. Your parents know this, too, and they try to let you make your own decisions in matters in which you are wise enough to do so.

This is what is meant in our story by the words, "And the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him." To understand how this can be, we must know that in the Word "to be alone" means to be led entirely by the Lord instead of being what we mean when we use the expression "a man among men." (Cf. Numbers 23:9, Deuteronomy 33:28, Jeremiah 49:31, @AC 139.) To be alone with the Lord in that sense is the highest state of which we are capable — what Swedenborg calls the "celestial" state — and those who, through obedience to the Lord, come to love Him more than everything else, reach that state in heaven. But we must choose by our own wills to serve the Lord, and we cannot do that without at least thinking of ourselves as independent individuals. So the Lord made provision that men could so think of themselves.

But there are two kinds of independence — a right and a wrong kind. When you decide something for yourself, trying to decide on what is really right according to all you have been taught of right and wrong, you are using your independence as it should be used. But when you forget about right and wrong and decide to do what you think will give you the most pleasure at the moment, you are using your independence in the wrong way. Our story this week gives us the picture of the right kind of independence.

First we read that the Lord brought to Adam all the animals and birds to see what he would call them, and that Adam gave names to them all. The animals and birds in the garden are pictures of our affections and thoughts. The Lord shows us just what affections and thoughts are in us and asks us to think about them and judge them. That is what we are doing in Sunday School and what your parents try to help you to do as you grow up. Giving a name to something is deciding just what it really is and trying to describe it. You probably call several of your friends by names which are not the ones they were given by their parents. Their "nicknames" frequently describe some quality which their friends see in them.

Then we are told that a deep sleep fell upon Adam. When these early people decided that they wanted to be independent, their minds were closed to the open vision they had had of the heavens, and this new state was like a sleep. And we are told that the Lord took one of Adam's own ribs and made it into a woman to be a help "meet" or fit for him. Meet means exactly suited to his needs. We know that our bones have very little life in them and yet are very necessary to us. They compose the structure which gives us our form, and they support and protect the more important and living parts of the body. So the bones picture what really belongs to us as individuals. Swedenborg calls them man's Own, or proprium. Without life constantly flowing in from the Lord, this self-hood or proprium is as dead as a skeleton. But the Lord can give it life and make it beautiful and useful. Do you see now what is meant by the creation of Eve out of the rib taken from Adam? When we know and believe that everything that is one's own is really dead apart from the Lord, and when we look to the Lord for life and guidance and try to make our proprium serve Him, then our individuality becomes a beautiful and useful thing and helps us and the world. This is the right kind of independence which does good instead of harm. So these people, even though they had declined from their first celestial state, could still be innocent, and this is pictured in the last verse of our chapter. If you remember your Bible story, you will recall that after the temptation of the serpent (discussed in our next lesson), Adam and Eve were ashamed of their nakedness.

We should not leave this story without thinking of it in another connection — as it relates to marriage. A married pair should be perfectly united to each other in their thought and feeling, as Adam and Eve were in the story. Read what the Lord has to say about this in Matthew 19:3-9. Marriage comes from the Lord and is holy, and a true marriage is the most desirable thing in life. But many marriages, which have been entered into without sufficient knowledge and preparation, are not true marriages, and lead to disaster. Remember this, and never let yourselves be deceived by the careless and foolish talk of people who have never had the great happiness of a true marriage.

