
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
It would be impossible to teach this lesson to children of this age without giving them something of the internal meaning. Their inquiring minds would not stop in the literal sense. In their notes the effort has been made to give them the simplest interpretation applicable to their age, and there are also lessons there which should be helpful to any Junior group, but the teacher may find further lessons in the other notes which he feels his class could understand.

---
What is the first chapter of the Bible about?

Who made the world and everything in it? Who is God?

Did the Lord write this first chapter of the Bible to teach us about the creation of the natural world?

What does it really teach us?

In a past lesson we thought about how our souls develop, and especially about the part which the light of understanding plays in this development. But there is another meaning with that story which we need to think about today. It is the story of how the human race developed. The human race in the beginning was in very much the same condition as a little baby. The people were simple and trustful and ignorant, and the Lord had to take care of them — just as we have to take care of a little baby — until He could teach them gradually to take care of themselves. Then they learned about their Heavenly Father, just as children do, and began to try to live as He taught them; and those who continued to look to Him for guidance became a very good and happy race of people. Their life was like a beautiful garden in which they could live in peace and happiness with everything they needed provided for them by the Lord. In the Bible story this is called the Garden of Eden, which means "the garden of delight." Mythology calls this beautiful early state the Golden Age. Swedenborg calls it the Most Ancient Church.

But men had, you remember, an "earth" side to their natures, and they could choose between serving God and serving themselves, just as we can today. We can be selfish or unselfish about everything we think and do, and no one makes us be one or the other, although we often have to behave as if we were unselfish when we do not really feel that way. The Lord, however, knows just what our temptations are, and always tries to help us choose the unselfish way. Our story for today about Adam (Adam is the Hebrew word for man) in the Garden of Eden is another parable. It seems to be about the creation of woman, but you remember that in Genesis 1:27 we read: "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them." The story of the creation of woman out of the rib of man must therefore have some inner meaning. It is given in the Bible to tell us how the Lord always provides that each of us shall have someone outside of himself to love, so that his thoughts will be taken away from himself and he will have the opportunity of becoming a really unselfish person.

Men and women were made to help each other. They need each other all through their lives. You know that your father has certain responsibilities in providing for his family and taking care of it, and your mother has different things to do. Both are needed, and neither one is comfortable or happy without the other, and you need both of them to take good care of you. Men and women, boys and girls, are different — but neither is better than the other, and if they are both willing to help each other, the family will be a happy one.

If this story seems to you a strange way for the Lord to choose to teach such a simple lesson, remember that there are still deeper meanings in it which you will learn when you are older. In every story in the Word there are deeper and deeper lessons wrapped up within waiting for us to grow old enough to understand them, and if we continue to study the Word, we shall never stop growing, even after we go from this world into the spiritual world. The Lord always has something for us to look forward to. But unless we know the story, as He gives it to us, we shall not be able to find the deeper meanings.

Another reason why we need to read and reread these chapters in the beginning of the Bible is that they are so often referred to later in the Word. Read what the Lord said to the Pharisees in Matthew 19:3-8. You see that in order to understand what the Lord was telling them you need to know the lesson we are studying today, and you also need to know about Moses and the laws given to the Jews through him. And because we cannot any of us learn too much at once, we need to be reading the Bible all through our lives.

What does the Bible call the state in which the first fully developed people lived?

How was the Garden of Eden watered?

What two trees are mentioned?

What does Swedenborg call this period?

What does mythology call it?

In the Bible story, what did the Lord see that Adam needed? In what state was Adam when his helper was created?

What did the Lord take out of Adam?

What did the Lord do with the rib?

What did Adam say of the woman?

What does this story teach us?

