
=== Notes for Parents

The story of the creation of Eve from the rib of Adam, which has puzzled many lovers of the Bible and has been pointed to by the unbelieving in support of their lack of faith, is another symbol story with a deep lesson hidden within it. You have seen your children pass from babyhood to the age when they wanted their own way. This is a natural development, and none of us would want our children to remain babies forever. The human race passed through this same change. In the beginning they were innocent and trustful and depended upon the Lord as a little baby depends on its mother. They were not savages, as some would have us think, but lived in harmony and peace and looked to the Lord for everything. This was the state of the first church which developed on earth, which is called the Most Ancient Church. It was the Golden Age of mythology, and in the Bible it is described in symbol language as the Garden of Eden. Eden means "delight."

But the race had to grow up just as a child does. Men and women had to begin to think of themselves as independent human beings who could make their own decisions. They had to become self-conscious. There are two kinds of self-consciousness, a good and a bad. We sometimes say a child or a grown person is "too self-conscious," meaning that he is never able to forget himself. This is a form of selfishness, and is to be avoided. But we must all recognize that every individual is important. Each of us has certain abilities, a particular use to perform, and a particular place to fill in the world. The difference between the selfish person and the helpful, outgoing person is like the difference between Adam's rib when it was a mere lifeless bone inside of him and the same rib after the Lord had drawn it out and breathed His life into it. Children should be taught that they will find their highest happiness in serving the Lord and helping other people. It is only selfishness which makes us unhappy. This is the real lesson of our story. We should know that the word Adam is merely the Hebrew word for mankind. It is the same word which is used in Genesis 1:27 near the end of the Creation story: "So God created man in his own image ... male and female created he them."

