
=== For Younger Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Here the lesson to emphasize is that Adam needed a help meet (i.e., suitable) for him. The need of companionship and the right attitude among playmates — one of helpfulness and happiness and sharing — is a good lesson for this age.

---
Anything deeper in the story should be given only in response to questions, and should be kept as simple as possible.

We have learned that God made everything in the world: the heavens and the earth, the oceans, the wonderful sun that gives us light all day and warms the earth so that the seeds can grow to give us grain and fruit, the moon which gives light at night, and the stars which help the sailors at sea to guide their ships.

God is our Heavenly Father who made us, too, and put us in the beautiful world He had prepared for us, and we should always be thankful to Him and try to please Him by doing what He says is right.

Now we shall read about something else the Lord did for people after He had made them. He had given them a beautiful garden to live in called the Garden of Eden, and He had put everything in the garden which they would need, but there was still something more they wanted.

Have you ever been lonely? Has there, perhaps, been a morning when the day was beautiful and you could play outdoors, you had just the kind of breakfast you liked, and you had some fine new toys to play with, and still you were not quite satisfied because you were all by yourself? Then you know how Adam felt in our story.

The Lord knew just how Adam felt, and planned to give him that one thing he wanted. First He brought to Adam all the animals and birds in the garden and let Adam give them names. "And whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof." But none of the animals or birds was just the companion Adam wanted. He wanted a help "meet" for him: that means a companion who just suited him.

Read verses 21, 22, and 23 and see how the Lord provided the helper suitable for Adam.

Because of this story a wife is sometimes called a "helpmeet." Every good wife is a helper for her husband.

Men and women were created to help each other.

Helping each other takes practice; so we should begin helping each other when we are very young.

When you are older, you will learn what the deeper meaning of this story is.

And do you know something else? In heaven a man and his true wife, when they are a little way off from other angels, look to other people like one angel instead of two.

