
=== For Older Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Two aspects of the story should be stressed: information given us through Swedenborg about the primitive state of mankind, and the lesson in regard to marriage. The teacher should develop the latter as fully as he feels the class is able to receive it. Boy and girl relations at the senior high school level are a crucial problem, and our young people should be helped as much as possible to keep their ideals high and their thought and speech and conduct pure. They are very well aware of some of the actual difficulties which arise from improper relations between boys and girls, but they need to understand the underlying reasons for keeping themselves strong and clean in this respect. They should be impressed with the thought that their influence among their schoolmates can be important.

---
In @AC 152 Swedenborg says: "It requires but little attention in anyone to discern that woman was not formed out of the rib of a man, and that deeper arcana are here implied than any person has heretofore been aware of."

Our story for today is a very familiar one, and one which has puzzled those people who wish to believe in the Bible but cannot close their eyes to facts. That Swedenborg was such a man is evident from the quotation above. He was constantly finding things in the letter of Scripture which did not seem sensible; yet, knowing the power and effect of the Bible, he recognized that it must be from God and, instead of rejecting it, as some do, he went to work with his scientific mind to study it more deeply in an effort to find out its true meaning. In time this meaning was revealed to him. The wonderful content of a story such as this one today is in itself proof of the validity of Swedenborg's illumination.

We have previously considered the Creation story particularly as it applies to us as individuals. But we said that it also had its application to the race as a whole. In six general stages the Lord developed the race of men He had placed on the earth until they were capable of being a "church." The church is wherever the Lord's love and wisdom are accepted and responded to by men. We are told that an individual is a church in its least form, and that a group of such individuals constitutes the church in its larger form. Swedenborg tells us that there is but one true church on earth at a time — that group which has accepted the Lord's truth as He has given it for that particular age and state of the race — and that from this church, as from the heart and lungs of a man, the life-blood goes forth throughout the rest of the body of good men and women in the world. The first three chapters of Genesis treat of the first church on earth, the Most Ancient Church: its rise (chapter 1), its time of flourishing (chapter 2), and its decline (chapter 3). The description of the Garden of Eden is a description of the beautiful state in which the people of this first church lived. It was a celestial church: that is, a church in which men could be governed by their hearts because the desire of their hearts was only to know and serve the Lord. They had open communication with the heavens, and thought very little about their earthly condition and life.

But man was created to be a free agent, since only by choosing freely the way of unselfish love, which is the Divine way, could he be happy; and the Lord's desire was to give him happiness. So man had an earthly as well as a heavenly side to his nature, and as time went on he naturally began to think more of himself and his earthly possibilities, and was no longer willing to live "alone" with the Lord. As Swedenborg states it, "This posterity of the Most Ancient Church was not disposed to dwell alone, that is, to be a celestial man, or to be led by the Lord as a celestial man, but, like the Jewish Church, desired to be among the nations. And because they desired this, it is said, 'it is not good that the man should be alone,' for he who desires is already in evil, and it is granted him" (@AC 139). We all know the feeling, the desire to be like other people. The Lord knew all that was in man, and that he would decline from the celestial state, just as He knows that we shall not always be innocent, trustful little babies, but will grow up and want to make our own decisions. So He makes provision for this change in us, and in this story He tells us how we can become independent and still remain good; for independence, in the sense of going our own way, often leads to sin and unhappiness.

First the Lord brought to Adam all the beasts and fowl of the Garden of Eden and told him to give them names. To give a name to something is to describe it as to its quality, and the beasts and fowl are our affections and thoughts. It is our duty to examine ourselves and study our affections and thoughts with a view to understanding them and their possibilities for good or evil. This prepares us to use our independence rightly.

But when the change was actually to be made, a "deep sleep" fell upon Adam. Swedenborg says: "By a 'deep sleep' is meant the state into which he was let so that he might seem to himself to have what is his own, which state resembles sleep" (@AC 147). The rib which was taken from Adam, we are told, represents man's "Own" or self-hood, of which he now wished to be especially conscious. Of itself it is nothing but a dead bone; yet if the Lord's spirit is breathed into it, it can become a beautiful living thing, with the help of which he can live a useful, happy, spiritual life. (See the quotation from the Arcana Coelestia at the end of this lesson.)

This story is usually considered in its relation to the subject of marriage, and the Lord Himself so uses it in Matthew 19:3-9. The doctrines of the New Church teach that true marriage on earth is the ultimation of the union of the Divine Love and Wisdom in the Lord; and the vivification of Eve by the Lord's spirit is a picture of this, also. If you look about you in the world, you cannot fail to see that true marriage is the happiest and most desirable state which a man and woman can experience, and you can see also that the deepest sorrows, the ugliest states, and even the most horrible crimes are the fruits of the perversions of the true relation between men and women. A true marriage comes from the Lord. It exists only when husband and wife are seeking to serve the Lord together and so are true helpmeets. Each desires the other's happiness more than his own, and both are in the effort to learn the Lord's will and do it. Marriage is eternal. The true husband and wife in the other world are reckoned as one angel, and are even so seen from a little distance. One who wishes such a true marriage will keep his ideal of marriage sacred, avoiding everything which might tarnish or spoil it, even if he never in this world finds his true mate. This world is only the beginning of life, and it is the character formed here which counts to eternity.

