
=== Adult

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The application of this familiar story to the predicament of many Christians in our modern times will perhaps be the best discussion topic, although some of the lessons suggested in the notes for the younger classes may also be useful. Try to call attention to the points brought out in the last paragraph of the Adult notes. Many people have not noticed the important statements in chapter 12.

---
The story of Daniel exemplifies the power of obedience to the Word to give wisdom, security, and strength to the individual life. Because of Daniel's absolute faithfulness to the Lord, the Lord could be with him and could speak through him, and for the same reason Daniel came to be recognized as the wisest and most upright man in the kingdom and retained his high place throughout his life, in spite of many efforts by his enemies to overthrow him. In all this his story parallels that of Joseph.

The story of Daniel in the lions' den is one of the most familiar of the Bible stories. It has a strong appeal for children and young people because of its dramatic quality, and it is well that this is so. For children and young people need to be inspired to stand on their own feet morally and spiritually from the start and not to let themselves be led into wrongdoing by their companions. Children need to learn to recognize and resist temptation on their own level all through their period of physical growth or they develop no independent strength of principle. And the effect of their faithfulness to their principles on other children and young people less fortunate in their training is a point to be taken into account. This, too, the story of Daniel illustrates.

But our chapter has a deeper meaning which is important for us all in these modern times. The love of dominion, which Babylon represents, had actually, under Nebuchadnezzar's son Belshazzar, reached the point at which the holy things of worship were completely profaned by being used to minister to Belshazzar's glory (chapter 5) and Darius the Mede had taken over the kingdom. "Babylon" — whether we think of it as a particular church or as an evil love in general or in the man of any church — seeks to attain its goals by using the things of religion. But as it progresses, there comes a point at which all actual belief in religion is destroyed. Swedenborg tells us that the Medes represent those who are against the truths and goods of the church.

Darius put Daniel at the head of his counsellors because Daniel had predicted that Babylon would fall into his hands. He recognized that Daniel was wiser than his other counsellors and wanted to keep his services, but he had no understanding of the source of Daniel's wisdom. Daniel, like all the prophets, represents the Word. There are many in the world today who recognize that there is great wisdom in the Word but attribute that wisdom to men and think they can use it to further their own ambitions. They are the "humanists" who think of God as the sum total of men's virtues and achievements. This position is directly "against the truths and goods of the church."

The Word, however, refuses to be fitted into this humanistic scheme of things. Sooner or later these people find themselves faced with the necessity of giving up their pride in their own superior intelligence or giving up the use of the Word for their service, and the Word is rejected altogether. Daniel is sealed up in the den of lions.

Lions in a good sense represent the power of truth, in a bad sense the power of falsity. Daniel remains shut up in their den all night. Because of the treatment the Word has received at the hands of those who wish to exalt human intelligence, many good people today are in darkness and doubt as to its source and credibility. But sooner or later the morning dawns. Very early in the morning, when the king went to the den to learn Daniel's fate, Daniel said, "My God hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me." With whatever falsities men seek to destroy the Word, it stands perennially secure. In our morning state we see this. "Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them," as the 119th Psalm tells us. And the peace we have through our trust in the Word has its effect even upon those who have not regarded the Word as holy. Read verses 25 to 28 of our chapter.

In Matthew 24:15 the Lord Himself tells us that Daniel's prophecies even treated of the time of the Last Judgment and the Second Coming. The five chapters which follow chapter 6 contain prophetic visions which the Lord gave to Daniel to record. These visions treat of the whole history of the first Christian Church. And we should read chapter 12, the final chapter of the book, especially for its connection with chapter 5 of the book of Revelation, which is probably familiar to all of us in the New Church. Even in the letter it gives us a clear statement of the relation of a prophet to his prophecy which is very helpful in our thought about the nature of the Word.

