
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The general correspondence of this story is simple, and the lesson is an important one for this age group. They need to be led and helped in every possible way to feel that the brave thing to do is to stand up for what is right, no matter how many arguments are advanced to persuade them to do wrong.

---
The ancient Hebrews did not consider the, book of Daniel to be among their most sacred scriptures because Daniel received his call to be a prophet after he left Jerusalem, and the whole book was written in Babylon. They felt that only in the Holy Land could a prophet be inspired. But in Matthew 24:15 the Lord Himself calls Daniel a prophet and tells us that his prophecies even extended to the state in which the world would be at the time of the Second Coming. All the prophets were inspired by the Lord; that is, they spoke words which they knew the Lord chose. They sometimes had their ideas of what their messages meant to the people of their own time, but they did not understand the spiritual and eternal meaning within them. Daniel himself tells us this in the last six verses of his book.

As we learn from Daniel 1:1-7, Daniel was among the first to be taken away from Jerusalem to Babylon, several years before the final captivity, and he was a very young man at the time. But, like all the children of the royal household, he had been taught by the priests. The fact that he and his three close companions were determined to be faithful to their own religion brought them several times into great danger, but each time the final result was that they were singled out for great honor. For the Lord could be with them. There is a very important lesson in this for us. We are often thrown among associates who have not been brought up in the high principles of our own church, and it may seem that we shall be unpopular and ridiculed if we do not do as they do. But if we have the courage to stand by our principles, we shall presently find that we are respected and looked upon as leaders, and our leadership will be for good instead of for evil.

Our lesson for today gives us a clear illustration of this. The throne of Babylon had finally been seized by Darius the Mede, but because Daniel had prophesied that this would happen (Daniel 5:25-31), Darius gave him the highest office in his new dominion. The law which was suggested by the jealous men who found themselves under Daniel we may think of as expressing what worldly people often say or think of a spiritual person with whom they can find no actual fault and who seems to be getting along well:

"Just wait! This unworldliness or spiritual mindedness is all very well in theory, but you have to look out for yourself first or everyone else will get the better of you." The Medes represent those who are against the truths and goods of the church. Darius, when he signed the law, did not even think of Daniel. He was flattered, and signed without even stopping to think. Do we ever do things like that? It was accepted as a fact that the laws of the Medes and Persians could not be changed once they were signed. What we do cannot be undone. No matter how sorry we may be afterward and no matter how we ourselves may change through repentance, the words and acts have had an effect which cannot be wiped out.

So Daniel was cast into the lions' den and the mouth of the den was sealed. Lions appear very often in the Bible story, and like everything else there they have a good and a bad correspondence. The lion is recognized as a symbol of strength and power, and power is in truth. In its highest sense the lion stands for the Lord as divine truth. He is called the "Lion of the tribe of Judah" in Revelation 5:5. And in its next sense it represents the power of falsity used to support the love of self. When we want very much to do something which we really know is wrong, we always try to find reasons for doing it which will seem to be true. These are the "lions" of our story. You may remember that a lion stood in the way of Samson when he went down to the Philistine country. He was able to kill it because his hair had not yet been cut, his hair representing the commandments. As long as we keep the commandments, the "lions" of false reasoning cannot hurt us.

Daniel was shut up over night in the lions' den. We have to meet our temptations ourselves. Other people may advise and try to help us — as Darius did Daniel in verse 16 - but no one can make our decision for us. We have to stand alone. The night always pictures a state of mental darkness and doubt. But the morning is the dawn of a new bright state when we see things clearly as they really are. In the morning Daniel said: "My God hath sent his angel and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me." Innocence means having done no harm, and it exists when we trust in the Lord and obey Him and do not set up our own judgment instead. When we are in innocence, the Lord's power can act through and in us and "shut the lions' mouths." False reasonings will be seen as foolish and will be without any power over us.

Daniel's enemies were then destroyed by the lions. Evil always returns to the person who tries to injure another. And Darius recognized Daniel's God as the greatest God and commanded all his people to worship Him. We should try to recognize our temptations and overcome them not only for our own sakes but because our victory will lead others to acknowledge the Lord and follow Him.

