
=== For Older Children

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The teacher should be familiar with the first five chapters of Daniel in order to cover the whole story of Daniel with confidence, drawing as much as possible on the memory of the pupils. The moral lessons for the Older Children are suggested in the Junior notes. Have the class look up and read the Bible references in the last paragraph of their notes.

---
What nation conquered Judah?

Who was the king of Babylon at that time?

Nebuchadnezzar did not destroy Judah when he first conquered it. He wanted to rule over all the countries he could, but he was a wise king and would have let the people of Judah alone if they had only obeyed him and paid the tribute money he required. Jeremiah the prophet advised them to do this, but they kept rebelling and so forced Nebuchadnezzar to his final treatment of them.

We learn from Daniel 1:1-4 that at the time of his first conquest of Judah Nebuchadnezzar had several of the most promising young princes of Judah brought to Babylon to continue their education in his court. He did not treat them as captives, but made careful provision for their support and training. Four of these young men became distinguished from the others by the fact that they refused to break the religious law in regard to food and continued faithfully in the worship of the Lord, in which they had been instructed by the priests in Jerusalem. You will find the names of these four in Daniel 1:6-7.

Because of their faithfulness the Lord was able to protect and help these four young men. When Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, because they would not worship the golden image which Nebuchadnezzar had set up as an idol, were cast into the fiery furnace, the Lord saved them. This story is found in Daniel 3. Later Daniel interpreted Nebuchadnezzar's dream and Nebuchadnezzar made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon.

In what ways is the story of Daniel like that of Joseph?

Daniel was somewhat overlooked during the reign of Nebuchadnezzar's son Belshazzar, but he came into prominence again at the end of Belshazzar's reign, when he read and interpreted the writing on the wall and prophesied Belshazzar's death and the conquest of his kingdom by the Medes and Persians. Darius the Mede, who followed Belshazzar as king, recognized Daniel's ability.

What office did Darius give Daniel?

How did the other presidents and princes feel about it?

Why could they not find any fault with Daniel?

In what way did they decide they could catch him?

What was peculiar about the laws of the Medes and Persians?

Did Daniel obey the new law?

How did the king feel about it?

How did he show his grief?

How was Daniel saved from the lions?

What became of the men who had plotted against him?

What new decree did Darius make?

This story teaches us several lessons. One is that when we try to injure others, we are very likely to injure ourselves instead. Another is that we should never let ourselves be hurried into doing something we may afterward be sorry for. "Stop and think" is a good rule. Like Darius, if we do not stop and think about the possible consequences, we may do something foolish just because other people suggest it. Another lesson is that if we do right, the Lord can save us from the many dangers which the evils in the world create. And finally the end of the chapter teaches us that when we have the courage to do right, no matter what the people who happen to be around us want us to do, we may be the means of leading others to see what is right and do it.

The rest of the book of Daniel tells of several prophetic visions which he had. A prophet is one who speaks for the Lord. Daniel spoke for the Lord not only to the people of Babylon but to us and to people of all time. The Lord Himself tells us in Matthew 24:15 that Daniel prophesied even the conditions which would exist in the church at the time when the Lord would find it necessary to make His Second Coming. You might also read Daniel 12:4 and then Revelation 5:1. You see, Daniel was a truly great prophet as well as a great man in the eyes of the people of his own time, as the prophet Ezekiel — who was a contemporary of Daniel — shows us. Read Ezekiel 14:14.

