
=== Notes for Parents

As we have noted, when Nebuchadnezzar first conquered Judah, several years before the final captivity, he had a few of the most promising young princes of the royal household of Judah brought to Babylon to be trained in the language and learning of the Chaldeans. Among these was Daniel. Nebuchadnezzar did not treat these young men as prisoners but had them cared for as members of his own household.

Daniel and three others — whose Chaldean names were Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego — were outstanding because from the very first they refused to do anything which was forbidden by the religious law in which they had been brought up before they left home. For this reason the Lord could be with them. You have read the story of how He saved Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego when they were cast into the fiery furnace. To Daniel He gave the ability to interpret dreams and the gift of prophecy, and because of these powers Daniel became chief ruler in the kingdom.

Even after Babylon in its turn was conquered by Darius the Mede, Daniel was continued in his office, and our story today is of the plot formed by his subordinate officers and its results. This is one of the most familiar stories in the Bible and it teaches us several lessons. The most important, of course, is that if we faithfully learn and obey the Lord's will, the Lord will be with us and save us from all the false and evil things which would destroy our souls. Anyone who has been tempted to do what he knew to be wrong knows what "lions" are, and we have all had some experience with being saved from them by the Lord's help.

Another lesson is very clear. Whoever tries to injure someone else is bound to injure himself instead. "With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again."

And the part of Darius in the story teaches us two more lessons.

The first is that we should never make an important decision without stopping to think. And the second is that when anyone has the courage to stand firmly by his principles in the face of danger, he may lead others to acknowledge the Lord and to change their own lives for the better.

