
=== Senior

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
Try to impress the young people with the danger of thinking too well of oneself, and with the way in which pride grows and destroys all wisdom. Try also to inspire them with the desire to emulate Daniel's faithfulness, and leave them with the feeling that only a weak person allows his associates to lead him to do what he knows to be wrong.

---
Babylon represents the love of dominion, and it was Babylon which conquered Judah. Judah represents the heart of the person of the church. Judah carried away captive to Babylon is a picture of the heart of a person of the church which has allowed the selfish love of being first and so ruling others to take possession of it. We sometimes may say of a person that he is "carried away" by ambition. Anything or anyone who stands in his way must be destroyed. This is the nature of the love of rule.

Yet we have a familiar proverb, "Pride goeth before destruction," one of the proverbs of Solomon (16:18), and history gives us plenty of illustrations of the truth of this proverb. The book of Daniel shows us how this proverb worked itself out in the actual history of Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar, who conquered Judah, had some wisdom in spite of his pride. The first four chapters of Daniel show us that the king was capable of learning by experience that the Lord was after all mightier than he. But his son and successor, Belshazzar, carried his pride to the point of profaning the holy vessels from the temple of Jerusalem and as a result lost his life and his kingdom. This story is told in chapter 5. When pride leads one to think of oneself as superior to God, there comes the "writing on the wall" to show that the end is at hand.

Daniel was the prophet through whom the Lord spoke to the kings of Babylon. Like all the prophets, he represents the Word of God. Ezekiel, who was his contemporary and also one of the captives from Judah, was the prophet who spoke to the people in Babylon. But both actually spoke to all men of all times. What we have learned of the Word remains with us to speak to our minds, however far we have gone astray in the paths of selfishness.

Daniel, we remember, had attained high position in Babylon under Nebuchadnezzar because his absolute faithfulness to the Lord had enabled the Lord to give him the ability to interpret dreams and to prophesy. Belshazzar apparently ignored Daniel until he needed someone to interpret the writing on the wall; but Darius the Mede, who took over Belshazzar's kingdom, restored Daniel to the position of first ruler under him. Selfish people often see—saw back and forth in this way between complete disregard of religion and the desire to make use of its obvious power.

Apparently it did not occur to Darius that Daniel would refuse to obey any law he chose to make. So he found himself in a position where he had to choose between giving up the wisest of his counsellors and giving up his pride. Daniel had to be thrown to the lions. This is just the kind of trouble into which pride and self-will bring us. We reach the point at which we will give up what we know to be the wise and right course rather than acknowledge that we have been capable of making a mistake.

Lions are symbols of power — in a good sense the power of truth and in a bad sense the power of falsity. When we allow ourselves to be led by false counsellors and by our own pride into the idea that the Word is to be judged like any other book as a product of human intelligence, we are "throwing Daniel into the den of lions."

But it was not Daniel who was killed. In a way this story is a summary of the history of the treatment of the Bible by the Christian Church. It was at first recognized and set up as ruler, but from the beginning many men in many ways have tried to destroy it, and as a result these men have lost their spiritual lives, while the Bible still stands unscathed. We should recognize from this fact, if from no other consideration, that it is the Word of God. If doubts come into our minds because of arguments advanced by humanists, we may think of them as the darkness of the night during which Daniel was shut up in the den, and we may know that in the morning our doubts will be dispelled.

"My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lion's mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me." If we are faithful through this temptation to be deceived by specious reasonings, as Daniel was faithful, recognizing our own weakness and sinfulness and looking to the Lord for guidance and strength — which is to be innocent — the false reasonings which seem so strong in the world around us will have no power to hurt or even to disturb us.

The outstanding lesson of the book of Daniel is the effect of Daniel's courageous faithfulness to the Lord upon everyone around him. Daniel made his choice when he was first brought to Babylon as a very young man and stuck to it through every danger and temptation. If we could all, when we are young, realize that the truly brave person is humble before the Lord and stands through thick and thin by what the Lord teaches him is right, we should avoid many pitfalls and reverses and become leaders in bringing about the Lord's kingdom on earth.

