
=== Intermediate

The general meaning of the three kings can be brought out clearly in this lesson. Stress the reason why the temple was built by Solomon and not by David, and the meaning of verse 7. The thought that the Lord builds our character out of the materials we furnish by our choices from day to day is helpful for young people of this age.

We remember that David was a fighting king. Under him all the enemies of Israel were overcome. And he was allowed to conquer Jerusalem and establish the ark of the covenant there in a tabernacle set up on Mount Zion. But because his work was the work of struggle and conquest, he was not allowed to build the temple. We have to fight against temptations, but the state of struggle is not the ideal state and is only a preparation for the building of heavenly character.

When Solomon, the son of David, succeeded his father on the throne of Israel, one of his first acts was to offer sacrifices to the Lord at Gibeon. Here the old tabernacle and its furnishings had finally been set up, and although the ark had been removed from the Holy of Holies, the regular ceremonies of worship were maintained and it was regarded as the principal place of worship. In going there Solomon was dedicating himself as best he could to the service of the Lord, and it was here that the well—known dream was granted him in which he made the wise choice of an "understanding heart" as the most desirable of all gifts which the Lord could give him. An understanding heart is a synonym for true wisdom, the ability to distinguish between right and wrong and to choose freely to do right. Solomon's wisdom thenceforward became famous, and kings and queens, like the queen of Sheba, sought his counsel.

Solomon did build the temple. The temple pictures the dwelling place of the Lord in our hearts, and this is built silently by the Lord out of good states which we produce by doing right in our daily life. Every time we make ourselves remember one of the Lord's commandments and obey it, we are fashioning a "stone" which can be used in our "temple." Read verse 7. It took seven years to build the temple, just as the building of a true human being, described in the Creation story, took seven days. Seven represents what is holy.

You remember that Saul pictures our natural understanding of truth and David our spiritual understanding of it, after we have grown up and learned by experience that we must be ruled by the truth. Solomon pictures the love of truth ruling. When we make ourselves do right because we know we shall get along better if we do, Saul is our king; when we do right because we want to please the Lord, David rules; but when doing right has become our habit and we love to do it, Solomon is on our "throne."

The difference between the temple and the tabernacle is brought out in two ways. The tabernacle, as we have seen, represents worship from the heart in a childlike state. The temple, a permanent building made of stone, represents a more mature acceptance of the Lord based on an understanding of the truth, and therefore more permanent. Not only stones went into its construction but also cedar and cypress brought from the mountains of Lebanon with the cooperation of Hiram, king of Tyre. Hiram is the symbol of a right principle governing worldly knowledges. He had been David's friend and had furnished materials for David's house. Now the same Hiram furnishes materials for the temple. When we are bent on serving the Lord, all our natural knowledges can be made useful.

The other representative of the change from the tabernacle to the temple state is found in the change of location from Mount Zion to Mount Moriah. These two hills were both within the city of Jerusalem. Mount Zion, which was the stronghold of the city, represents the "celestial" principle of the church, that is, the love of goodness. Mount Moriah represents the "spiritual" principle of the church, that is, the love of truth.

The plan and proportions of the temple were the same as those of the tabernacle, but some of its furnishings were multiplied, as we learn from chapter 7. Our appreciation of the truths of the Word, like the lampstands in the Holy Place, is multiplied when we have advanced in understanding, and so is our ability to make our outer lives serviceable to the Lord.

