
=== Notes for Parents

Saul had been told that because of his unwillingness to obey the Lord in all things, his line would not continue on the throne of Israel; and we have seen that the second great king was not Saul's son, but David. David did obey the Lord, and the Lord promised him that there should always be a descendant of his on the throne. Even before he died David had his favorite son Solomon anointed to be the next king. The name Solomon means "peace," and Solomon's reign was one of peace and great glory; for David had conquered all of Israel's enemies, and the Lord, in addition to making Solomon very wise, gave him great riches.

Solomon was allowed to build the first temple in Jerusalem. We remember that the tabernacle, although its walls were of boards, was really a tent, because the children of Israel were constantly moving from place to place through the wilderness, and even after they entered the Holy Land, they were in constant conflict and did not have a fixed center for their national life. This is a picture of our own individual state during the greater part of our lives in this world. Spiritually we are constantly changing from one place to another and constantly at war with the weaknesses and evils in our own natures. Our worship of the Lord, our thought about Him and our obedience to His commandments, must go with us from state to state and must keep the quality of childlike dependence upon our Heavenly Father. This is symbolized by the tabernacle.

But when David took Jerusalem, the nation then had a strong, permanent national center and David brought the ark there. Then in the peace which followed David's conquests, Solomon could build the temple, which pictures a lasting spiritual character. Paul says, "Know ye not that ye are a temple of the Lord?"

All the materials for the temple were prepared outside of the city of Jerusalem, so that "there was neither hammer nor ax nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building." By our free choice of right thought and action as we struggle against our temptations from day to day we fashion the materials out of which the Lord is silently building the temple within us — the spiritual character which at the end of our time in this world will stand forth complete as we enter the beautiful world where we shall find our eternal homes.

