
=== Junior

A review of the story of the first five chapters of Revelation should precede the actual lesson. Give the children a chance to tell anything they remember from other years. Then take up the four horses in some detail, finishing with a suggestion of their general meaning, and of the meaning of the rest of the chapter.

Which Gospel follows the Gospel of Luke?

Who was John?

John was probably the youngest of the apostles and he lived the longest. Several times in the Gospels he is called "the disciple whom Jesus loved." There are many traditions concerning his later life and his work as an apostle, and it seems fairly well established that he finally made his home at Ephesus and was regarded as the head of the seven Christian churches which had been established in Asia Minor. Find the names of these seven cities on a map of the New Testament world.

See also if you can find on the map the island of Patmos. For many years the Christians were feared and hated by the rulers of the countries where they lived, just as the Lord Himself had been feared and hated by the chief priests and by the scribes and Pharisees. John is thought to have been about ninety years old when he was banished to the island of Patmos. He tells us the reason for his exile in Revelation 1:9. It was in Patmos that the Lord appeared to him in a glorious form (Revelation 1:12-16) and told him to write down all he saw and heard. Then He gave John messages for the seven churches and then a long and wonderful vision, which was a prophecy of what would happen in the souls of the people of the Christian Church as the centuries rolled on. What John wrote down we have in the last book of our Bible, the book of Revelation.

The first chapter is a vision of the risen and glorified Lord. Chapters 2 and 3 contain the messages to the seven churches. We learn from them that each of these churches was different from all the others and that each had its good points, but also that each had developed certain faults which the Lord wanted to point out to its people so that they might be corrected. He gave each church a warning, and made each one a special promise if it would repent and be faithful. In chapter 4 we have the vision of the great throne (which was a picture of judgment) with the twenty-four elders sitting on seats around it, and the four "beasts" or cherubim, the first like a lion, the second like a calf, the third like a man, and the fourth like a flying eagle. And they were all praising the one who sat on the throne. Finally in chapter 5 is the vision of the book sealed with seven seals, which was in the right hand of the one who sat on the throne, and the promise that the "Lion of the tribe of Judah," who also appeared as a lamb, would loose the seals and open the book. The book was the Word and the Lamb was the Lord Himself.

In our chapter for today we have the vision of the opening, one after another, of the first six seals, and what John saw each time. 

What did John see when the first seal was opened?

What weapon did the horse's rider have?

What else was given him?

What was he to do?

What did John see when the second seal was opened?

What weapon did his rider have?

What power was given him?

What did John see when the third seal was opened?

What did his rider have in his hand?

What was he weighing?

What was he told not to do?

What did John see when the fourth seal was opened?

What was the name of his rider?

What power was given him?

You want to remember as much as you can about these four horses, for ever since the book of Revelation was written people have been wondering what they meant, and many guesses have been made about it. You will even find books written about these guesses. But the Lord has revealed through Swedenborg what the four horses represent, and when you are older, you will be able to study the meaning of every least part of this strange vision. Perhaps you can remember now that the horses picture the different ways in which people understand the Word of God and the effect that these different kinds of understanding have on the lives of the people themselves and on the world. And you can remember that the white horse pictures a true understanding. Read Revelation 19:11-13.

Do you remember how the Lord "opened the scriptures" to the two disciples on the way to Emmaus, and that they said that as they listened, their hearts burned within them? The opening of the fifth seal tells us how good people feel when the Word is opened so that its real meaning is seen. And the opening of the sixth seal tells how this same revelation affects the bad people who do not want the Lord's truth because it shows up the evils in their lives.

