
=== Notes for Parents

Ever since the book of Revelation was written — about A.D. 90 - the Christian world has been busy trying to interpret it. It is the prophetical part of the New Testament and, unlike the books of the Old Testament prophets, there is no possibility of associating any of it except the first three chapters with events of John's own time. It obviously foretells things to come.

Many attempts have been made to connect various wars and battles which have taken place during Christian history with some of these visions of John, and such attempts are still being made. The four horsemen in our chapter for today have especially intrigued men's imagination and even — not too many years ago — furnished the material for a best seller.

We ought to realize, however, that the Bible is given to teach us spiritual lessons and that all the prophecies in the Bible are pictures not of worldly happenings but of things which happen in people's souls under certain conditions. You may remember in our lesson about Jesus on the road to Emmaus, how the Lord "opened the understanding" of the apostles to understand the things concerning Himself in all the Scriptures. The "seals" which are opened in our chapter for today are seals with which the Lord closes these inner things in the Bible until He finds people ready to make some good use of what is there. People who do not want to live according to the Lord's laws are better off without the knowledge, for sin is doing what we know to be wrong.

This is what the Lord is trying to impress upon us in our chapter. The opening of the seals affects people differently according to the states of mind and heart in which they are, and the four horses and their riders are pictures of different ways in which people receive the truth about their souls as it is presented to them in the Word of God. (1) Some people welcome all the truth they can learn and use it to discover and correct their faults and to help them live as the Lord would have them live. This kind of reception is symbolized by the white horse. (2) Some people like to learn the truth only in order to condemn other people, without applying it to themselves at all. This is pictured by the red horse. (3) Some are not interested in learning anything from the Bible about their souls, but like to pick out a verse here and there and haggle over its literal meaning, as if that was all there was to the Bible. This attitude is represented by the black horse. (4) And then there are those who reject the Bible altogether because they have no intention of doing anything except get all they can for themselves in this world; so the Lord cannot reach their souls at all: they are spiritually dead. This state of mind is portrayed by the pale horse.

The Lord has given the Bible to all of us and the truth is there, deeper and deeper truth as we study it and try to live it out. Each of us is free to choose between the Lord and self, and when we go into the other world, the judgment is according to our own choice. This is what the rest of our chapter teaches us.

