
=== Adult

There are any number of interesting discussion topics in this story: the characteristics of the period of the Judges, the altar to Baal, the dew on the fleece, and the Midianite's dream, as well as the immediately obvious ones.

---
The division of the Holy Land by lot among the tribes pictures the well—rounded spiritual life, and also the well—rounded spiritual society, in which good men and women of all types and gifts have their proper places and work together harmoniously in the Lord's service.

But the Israelites in their new prosperity forgot their duty to the Lord. So long as Joshua lived or any of the elders who had been eyewitnesses of the miracles which the Lord had performed for their salvation, they remained faithful; but as soon as these were gone, they began to have dealings with the evil peoples of the land, to intermarry with them, and presently even to worship their idols. Our first efforts to lead a spiritual life have a certain zeal which carries us along. Joshua — the truth fighting — is alive in us, our leader; the many instances in which the Lord has helped us in temptation are fresh in our memories. Then we gain a measure of victory; we taste the satisfaction of living from spiritual motives; we feel that we are settled in the right way and may relax our vigilance. We forget that we have not completely destroyed the enemies which we have subdued, but have merely, as it were, put them to tribute. And while we rest on our laurels, confident in our newfound security and peace, these enemies begin to stir again and to gain strength. This is the period of the Judges. The keynote of this period is found in Judges 17:6: "In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes."

In the story of Gideon, we have again impressed upon us — though in a new form - the lesson of the necessity of humility, obedience, and courage. The enemy this time is Midian. Swedenborg links Midian in a good sense with those of his own day who were brought up in the doctrine of faith alone and believed it because it was taught them by the church, and yet were in a good state of life. In a bad sense the Midianites, he says, are those who are in "truth which was not truth because there was no good of life." Sometimes, after a period of apparent security in our relations to the Lord, we are suddenly overwhelmed by an attack from without. This may perhaps take the form of ridicule from some person who seems to know a great deal more about the Bible than we do and uses the very stories which we have loved and reverenced against us as weapons to break down our faith, appealing to so-called "common sense" to support his attack. Thus our childhood's knowledge is made to raise doubts in our minds. Those of us who have skeptics among our acquaintances become very familiar with the attacks of the Midianites.

The angel of the Lord came to Gideon as he was threshing wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites. Gideon was of the tribe of Manasseh, the tribe which represents love of the neighbor coming from its true source, the Lord, and expressing itself in the outward life. Gideon acknowledged himself to be the least in the tribe, but he was found trying to preserve some wheat — some genuine good — from the Midianites. Even a very small amount of such genuine love can be used by the Lord to destroy the Midianites "as one man" if we will be faithful and brave. Gideon received the sign of fire from heaven consuming his offering as a proof that the Lord's power would be with him. His first act after that was to destroy the altar of Baal (Baal, like Babylon, represents the love of dominion from the love of self) which had been set up by his own father. Next he built an altar to the Lord in its place. After this he received the further signs of the dew on the fleece and on the ground, which picture the fact that the Lord is with all our genuine efforts to be good, whether these efforts seem to succeed or not. When we are attacked by the Midianites, the first thing necessary is the admission of our own weakness and need of help from the Lord. The second is that we see that what stands in our way is the altar to Baal in our minds; that is, when we find it hard to meet and overcome ridicule and worldly reasoning, it is because we really care more about what people around us think of us than we do about what the Lord thinks of us. Once we see and overthrow this altar, the Lord can show us the truths we need for our defense. If we can bring ourselves to think of ridicule as a test of our sincerity and courage, the battle is half won, and if we can be armed with truths from the Word with which to meet ridicule, we can go the rest of the way.

It is obvious, even in the letter, that the victory of Gideon teaches the lesson that the power to conquer in temptation comes from the Lord and not from ourselves. The details of the victory suggest the means by which the Lord's power is made effective in us. In addition to his own tribe, Gideon summoned men from the three northernmost tribes — representing truth to fight against falsity. Then all those who were afraid were sent home; we must put aside fear of failure and fear of consequences when we enter upon the Lord's battles. Finally only those who stooped and drank hastily at the spring, lapping water from their hands as a dog laps, were chosen to win the victory. This suggests that the battle with the Midianites calls for speed and zeal and our quickest wits to select hastily the truths which will answer our present external need for arguments. The army was divided into three parts, picturing attack on all three planes of heart, mind, and conduct; and it was placed so as to surround the enemy and made use of no ordinary weapons of warfare. The ordinary campaign of argument and reasoning cannot be used against those who employ ridicule or against the influence of such attacks in our own minds. These enemies must be attacked suddenly, upon all sides, and with weapons which are not generally thought of as weapons. Trumpets represent the power of the Lord speaking through the Word, and the torches within the pitchers are the truth which is hidden within the letter of the Word, truth which can flash out suddenly from an apparently dark or obscure verse.

The Midianites were thrown into confusion and destroyed each other in the darkness. The attack of those who ridicule faith in the Lord and the Word as childish can often be routed by a bombardment of simple quotations from the Scriptures which come from different angles of thought. Such an attack is always unexpected. The Lord's truth shines forth where they were convinced all was darkness; His power is manifest in one they thought an easy prey. They are thrown into confusion, and if they try to answer they destroy their own strength by self-contradiction.

We have the Lord's own example to follow here. Three times He answered the tempter by a simple quotation from the Scriptures, and again and again He put the scribes and Pharisees to rout in the same way. Study Matthew 22:23-46 for a wonderful illustration of this method. If we will think about what we read in the Word and memorize striking verses, we can all arm ourselves with Gideon's lamps and pitchers and trumpets. Verses like the following come to mind:

The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. (Psalm 14:1)

For lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart. (Psalm 11:2)

For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways your ways, saith the Lord. (Isaiah 55:8)

