
=== For Younger Teens

[.underline]#*Teacher Notes:*# 
The correspondence of the Midianites, the altar of Baal, the two tests by which the army was reduced, and the lamps, pitchers, and trumpets should all be discussed. The need of humility, obedience, and courage and the fact that the power to overcome is in the Word are the important lessons.

---
Under Joshua the Israelites conquered the land and settled in it.

The country was divided among the tribes by lot, and the tabernacle was set up at Shiloh near the center of the land. Shiloh means "peace." But the people, with the exception of the tribes of Simeon and Judah, did not obey Joshua's injunction to complete the conquest of the enemies within their own borders and to make no terms with them (Joshua 23:4-13), and they were led away into the worship of the gods of their enemies, the worship of Baal and other idols. The Lord had warned them in the wilderness against just this evil (Deuteronomy 6:10-12).

After Joshua's death they had for a time no one leader. The characteristic of the period is described in the words: "In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes." (Judges 17:6) When we look to ourselves for the knowledge of what is right, we are setting ourselves up above the Lord; this is worshiping Baal. Because of this unfaithfulness the Lord permitted their enemies to increase in strength and to attack them. Then, whenever they were sufficiently frightened to turn to Him for help, He would raise up some person to lead them against the particular enemy who was troubling them. These leaders were called Judges. Only the last one, Samuel, had more than a temporary and local authority. They picture the particular truths which the Lord calls to our memory when we need them to fight against particular temptations.

In our lesson for today, the particular enemies are the Midianites.

You may remember that they also were descended from Abraham and had been friends of the Israelites at the time of the Exodus, protecting Moses for forty years and later giving him good advice. One family of Midianites, the Kenites, joined the Israelites and settled with them in the Holy Land. But the rest of the Midianites had become enemies. The Midianites picture the kind of thoughts we had about the Lord when we were children. These were holy and good, and so long as they are used to protect our worship, they are friends to our spiritual life. But they can become enemies. For example, when we were little children, our thoughts about the birth of the Lord centered in the little baby in the manger with the animals nearby and the shepherds and wise men coming in. But as we grow older, our thoughts of the Lord's Advent should grow greater and deeper. If we think only of the infant Jesus, the thoughts of the external and superficial surroundings of His birth will fill our minds, as the Midianites overran the fields of Israel, and will take away the real spiritual food which we need at Christmas time. They may even become false thoughts if they lead us to think of the Lord as a mere man and to doubt that the Divine could have come into the world as a helpless baby.

Gideon told the angel sent to call him that his family was the lowliest in the tribe of Manasseh, and that he was the least in his family. Yet when he was assured that he was really called to lead his people against its overwhelming foe, he obeyed immediately and fearlessly. These two qualities, humility and courage, were the same ones enjoined upon Joshua, and they are essential to a fight against evil because the only power which can overcome evil is the Lord's, and we can use the Lord's power only when we recognize our own weakness and are willing to obey Him wholly.

Gideon's first assignment was the overthrow of the altar of Baal in the face of the certain displeasure of everyone he knew. We must be able to pass this test of ability to do right bravely when everyone around us is doing wrong. It takes real courage to face the ridicule and disapproval of the people we live with every day. The result of this first act of bravery on the part of Gideon has a lesson for us, too. Although his neighbors at first wanted to kill him for throwing down their altar, his bravery before them made such an impression on them that afterward they accepted his leadership and followed him to battle. Moral courage always in the end inspires respect.

The reduction of Gideon's army was another lesson to Israel in the truth that their strength was in the Lord alone. For us it pictures the fact that when we set out to fight our temptations, we must first get rid of the fear of failure and then of all the tendencies to hesitation and self-indulgence; these were the two tests by which Gideon's army was reduced. We must always meet the enemy not in our own strength or with our own arguments, but with simple truth from the Word — the lamps in the pitchers — and with obedience to the commandments, which is pictured by the blowing of the trumpets. The division of the three hundred men into three companies represents the simultaneous attack upon our temptations in our hearts, our minds, and our conduct. The enemy camped in the valley pictures the false reasonings in favor of having our own way which have filled the lower part of our minds. We all know how easy it is to find excuses for doing what we want to do. These false reasonings all fall into confusion when we flash upon them the truths we get from the Lord in the Word and when we make ourselves remember and obey the commandments. The next chapter tells how Gideon chased the enemy across the Jordan and beyond; he then destroyed them with their kings. After we have conquered a temptation, we need to clear out of our hearts and minds all the wrong feelings and thoughts that have been connected with it.

