
=== Junior

Show the Juniors a map of the land as it was divided among the tribes and have them find the tribe of Manasseh, from which Gideon came; and the tribes of Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, who sent men for Gideon's army. Then locate the place of the battle, with the place where each army was drawn up. Stress Gideon's humility, his obedience, and the reason given for the reduction of the army (Judges 7:2), as well as the point emphasized in the pupils' notes that it takes courage to do right when those about you are doing wrong, but that such courage is one of the essentials of real leadership.

Under Joshua the Israelites conquered all of the Holy Land.

Then it was divided by lot among the twelve tribes, and all the people settled down and built homes. The tabernacle was set up at Shiloh, which was about halfway between Bethel and Shechem. Then Joshua died. Read Judges 2:6-13. Joshua had charged the tribes to complete the conquest of their enemies, each within its own borders, but the tribes of Judah and Simeon were the only ones who obeyed. The others were all too much interested in becoming prosperous themselves. So the Lord allowed their enemies to become strong again and to rise up and attack them. Of course when they were in trouble, the people always begged the Lord to save them. They had no one leader, but each time they asked Him, the Lord raised up someone to lead them against the particular enemy who was attacking. These leaders were called Judges.

At the time of our lesson for today, an enemy from the cross-Jordan country is attacking Israel.

Who were these enemies?

You may remember from our lesson about Moses at the burning bush that Midian was a son of Abraham by Keturah, whom he married after Sarah's death. His descendants had helped Israel in the wilderness (Exodus 18; Numbers 10:29-32; Judges 1:16), but now, except for the family of the Kenites, they have become enemies.

Gideon of the tribe of Manasseh was chosen and prepared to lead Israel against the Midianites.

What was he doing when he was called to serve the Lord?

Who called him?

He was humble and willing to obey. These are the two qualities in us which the Lord needs to find in order to use us for His work in the world.

How did the Lord test Gideon's willingness to obey?

What other name was given to him?

What two signs did he ask of the Lord?

Look on a map at the plain of Esdraelon. Part of its western boundary is the hill of Morah. The Midianites were camped in the valley at the foot of this mountain. A little further south is the well of Herod, which was later called "Gideon's spring" because Gideon's army was gathered there. Esdraelon is the Greek form of the Hebrew name Jezreel. Jezreel is mentioned many times in the Old Testament, but we usually call it "the plain of Esdraelon" because under that name it has become a famous battlefield.

What tribes furnished the men for Gideon's army?

Why did the Lord say the army was too big?

Who were first sent home?

When we are trying to fight a temptation, we must first get rid of the fear of being defeated. And there was another kind of man who had to be sent home.

How many men did Gideon finally have?

What assurance of victory did the Lord give him?

How did he divide his army?

What did they have instead of weapons?

The lamps in the pitchers picture truth from the Lord hidden within the letter of the Word. Blowing on trumpets pictures declaring the power of obedience to the commandments. Truth from the Lord and obedience to the commandments are all the "weapons" we need in order to overcome our temptations. In the face of them, evil and falsity become confused and destroy themselves, just as the Midianites did.

