
=== Senior

The necessity of looking to the Lord instead of to our own intelligence for the knowledge of what is right is an important point to make with this class. Every detail of the story can be seen to add to the force of this lesson. After suggesting the use of quotations from the Word as weapons against temptation, the teacher might read to the class the quotations found at the end of the Adult notes, and then ask the class to suggest others.

We recall from our previous knowledge of the Bible that the book of Joshua covers the period of conquest of the Holy Land and its division among the tribes. This is a picture of coming into a state of regeneration with all our faculties ordered in their proper relation to our service of the Lord and the neighbor. The tabernacle was set up at Shiloh (which means "peace") in the center of the land. But it is a great mistake to think that we ever come into a state when we can consider ourselves regenerate and, as some churches express it, "saved." Again and again the Bible teaches us that our enemies are always with us and that we must be constantly on our guard against them or we shall surely slip back. In Deuteronomy 6:10-12 the Lord had warned Israel against this danger which would be inherent in their victory, and in Joshua 23:4-13 the tribes are charged to maintain their worship of the Lord and to make no terms with the enemies that remained within their borders. But all the tribes except Simeon and Judah disregarded both the warning and the charge, and turned to the worship of the gods of their enemies. Then the enemies regained strength and rose against them.

This is the picture presented in the book of Judges. "In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes." (Judges 17:6) This is not the way to spiritual success. It is the way to danger and destruction. Only as the Lord raised up people to lead them was it possible for the Israelites to be saved. These people, the Judges, were not rulers over the whole country or for long periods of time. They represent particular truths which the Lord raises up from our memories when we realize that we are in grave danger and turn to Him for help. Each enemy represents a particular temptation.

The story of Gideon is the description of our battle against superficiality, for the Midianites, as enemies, represent superficial and hence false thoughts about religious things. Midian, the son of Abraham by Keturah, the wife of his old age, originally pictures our childish concept of religious truth, innocent and good at the time when it is formed. Moses, after his first flight from Egypt, was protected for forty years in the land of Midian by Jethro the priest, whose daughter he married. So long as there is innocence in the heart and our minds have not developed enough to be troubled by arguments against our faith, this childish thinking is helpful. But as we grow older and come in contact with worldly reasoning, it begins to stand in the way of our spiritual growth. A host of inconsequential thoughts, like the Midianites, overrun our minds when we should instead be growing in depth of understanding of the Lord and of spiritual living. In the animal kingdom grasshoppers and locusts represent this indulgence in childish and superficial thinking. So the Midianites were likened to them. We should remember that all thinking which is based on the testimony of sense experience alone is superficial and childish. Our minds are given us to use in religion as well as in everything else.

Gideon, threshing wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites, pictures our higher self trying to discover what is really good in a time of temptation. His humility and his willingness to obey the Lord made it possible for the Lord to use him to save Israel.

The two signs which he asked are interesting. The fleece pictures a good external life from a principle of innocence. The ground pictures the mind in general. The dew, which comes in the morning, pictures truth from the Lord refreshing us at the time of a new beginning. Sometimes our efforts to do right are rewarded with this sense of renewal and understanding. Sometimes they are not apparently rewarded. Both conditions are under the Lord's providence. Gideon wanted to be sure the Lord was leading him, whatever the appearance. We need this same assurance to protect us against discouragement.

Gideon naturally called out a large army to battle, as we sometimes use time and effort in thinking just what we are going to say and do in the face of some expected attack upon our principles. The Lord told His Apostles: "But when they shall lead you, and deliver you up, take no thought beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye premeditate: but whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye: for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost." (Mark 13:11) If we constantly read and meditate upon the Word of God and are determined to obey it, we shall be enabled to meet temptation with the Lord's words rather than with our own.

From Gideon's army the Lord removed first all who were fearful, and then all who were slothful and self-indulgent. Our answers to the tempter should not be given fearfully or with hesitation. Gideon was given an experience to encourage him. We all have had the experience of seeing in people we know the triumph of simple goodness over the superficial reasonings of the self-assured. These experiences, like Gideon's overhearing the story of the dream of the cake of barley bread which overturned the Midianite tent, are granted us by the Lord to strengthen our faith.

And Israel was saved not by its own weapons. The three hundred were divided into three companies, picturing effort on all three planes of life; so they appeared on three sides of the enemy at once. And the attack was made with the lamps and trumpets, just as we can be led in our temptation battles by the sudden flashing of truth out of the letter of the Word and the proclamation of the determination to obey the Lord. These were the "sword of the Lord and of Gideon," before which the enemy was confounded. It is a matter of experience that nothing so confuses one who is using selfish and worldly arguments as an unexpected quotation from the Word and the simple determination to obey it.

